Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will turn today's meeting over to your host Mr.
Gavin Bell.
You may begin.
Thank you Sherry.
Good afternoon and thanks everyone for joining us for our first quarter 2011 earnings call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will lead our conference call this afternoon.
After Bill’s opening remarks John Bruno Executive Vice President of our Industry Solutions Group will update you on progress with respect to certain key initiatives.
Bob Fishman NCR’s Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on NCR’s total company financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor page of NCR’s website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on NCR’s website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of April 28 2011 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this conference call whether as a result of new information or future results.
I'll now turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Gavin.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us.
The first quarter marked a successful start to the year for NCR.
Our results came in ahead of what we expected for the quarter and featured top line growth across all our business segments strong order growth in our core industries and improved gross margins resulting in a 33% increase in NPOI and an 80% increase in non-GAAP earnings per share over the prior year period.
The first quarter of 2011 is the best Q1 earnings performance for NCR since the Teradata spin including the dilutive impact of Entertainment.
It's clear as we meet with customers around the world that our strategic investments we've made in our company products and services are resonating across all of our end markets.
At the same time we continue making good progress in our efforts to strengthen NCR from within.
This quarter we will begin reporting on a line-of-business basis.
As such we are now reporting revenue and operating income on 4 segments: Financial Services; Retail and Hospitality; Entertainment; and Emerging Industries which includes our Travel and Gaming Healthcare and Telecom and Technology lines of business.
NCR Services revenue was integrated within each reporting segment reflecting the strong linkage between products and services in the overall NCR solutions portfolio.
That said NCR Services contributed significantly to our success in the quarter and I will provide more color on our Services results later in my prepared remarks.
In addition we have realigned our geographical reporting consistent with how we reorganized our sales theaters in 2011.
This will provide you with a better picture of how we look at our business as we seek to drive growth in both developed and emerging markets.
We will begin reporting revenue by geography in our soon-to-be filed 10-Q for the following 6 theaters: North America; Europe; BICMEA which includes the key emerging markets of Brazil India China Middle East and Africa; Japan Korea; South Asia-Pacific; and CLA or the Caribbean Latin America region.
Looking at Financial Services first we generated 3% revenue growth over Q1 2010 with good performance across key regions including BICMEA and CLA.
Global orders were up 8% and backlog at quarter-end was up in the mid-teens versus the prior year period.
Retail and Hospitality segment revenues grew 5% over the prior year period led by ongoing rollouts of our self-checkout and point-of-sale solutions.
We entered the year looking to rebuild momentum into our order backlog and sales funnel after a strong fourth quarter of 2010 and we are pleased to report that orders were up by more than 30% and backlog at quarter-end recovered nicely ending up in the mid-teens versus the prior year period.
Our only challenging market was Japan which saw some interruption in business due to the tragic events that occurred in March.
Although NCR Services is integrated within the segments as I mentioned I'd like to particularly highlight the continuing strong performance of our Services team with Q1 revenues up 7% and gross margins up 100 basis points compared to last year's Q1.
It is important to note that over the past few years we have been working on programs to improve service delivery and drive sustainable long-term growth and we're more convinced than ever that our Services business can be a future growth engine for NCR.
We don't want to get ahead of ourselves but to-date we have been very pleased with our results.
We have recruited experienced service talent upgraded our global management team improved our delivery infrastructure and added sales resources all focused on delivering great service and making a more diverse set of service offers a competitive advantage and it's working.
We'll keep you posted periodically on our service-specific results.
Another proof point validating our ability to make service a competitive advantage for our customers is a recent award NCR received from the United States Postal Service the 2010 Supplier Performance Award.
We were recognized for our technology and services which delivered various improvements in supply chain management and customer experience across thousands of post offices in the United States.
To put the award in context during fiscal year 2010 the Postal Service sourced transportation supplies services facilities and equipment from tens of thousands of suppliers.
NCR was 1 of only 13 companies being recognized this year.
Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe recognized the contribution of NCR and other award winners saying that our innovative ideas will help the postal service grow the business improve the customer experience and become leaner faster and smarter.
NCR Services is well positioned to generate solid revenue growth and margin expansion in 2011.
Entertainment revenues increased more than 100% on a year-over-year basis.
On a sequential basis revenues grew 16% as we improved same-store sales growth secured new kiosk deployments and redeployed underperforming kiosks as part of our continuing efforts to optimize our footprint.
John talked with you last quarter about our plans to refine our deployment footprint and focus on per-unit performance in this business and we made progress executing on that plan in Q1.
John will provide further detail in a moment.
In addition to solid revenue performance NCR is also executing on our ongoing cost improvement efforts.
We are on track to achieve $75 million to $100 million in annualized cost reductions this year.
Our 3-year target remains $200 million to $300 million and we have begun tackling many of these longer-term initiatives as well.
The savings we have achieved to-date and those we plan to achieve are almost entirely the result of sustainable efficiency and productivity gains driven by our 3-year installation of continuous improving capability inside NCR.
We consistently analyze continuous improvement opportunities throughout the organization beginning at the front-end with innovation and product design and continuing through the organization through our supply chain operations manufacturing and ultimately NCR Services.
Just this morning NCR announced that we've been awarded Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design or LEED certification for our Columbus Georgia manufacturing plant.
NCR's LEED certification was based on a number of green design and construction features which positively impacted the revamp of our Columbus plant.
NCR is amongst a very select few to have a LEED-certified plant that has been refurbished in the United States.
Overall revenue growth across our business segments and our focus on productivity improvements helped drive strong NPOI growth during the quarter.
In the first quarter of 2011 NPOI was $57 million compared to $43 million last year an increase of 33% on top of a strong compare in Q1 2010 where NPOI grew 54% over Q1 2009.
All in all it was a good start to our year.
And as a result we are today raising our earnings guidance for the full year.
Even though it's early in the year and there remains sufficient uncertainties economically and geopolitically we feel incrementally more positive about our overall earnings outlook for 2011.
Let me now dive a little deeper into trends in the Financial Services and Retail and Hospitality businesses and John will cover the same for Entertainment and our Emerging Industries.
In Financial Services we continue to offer a unique and highly valuable product suite that appeals to banks of all sizes around the world.
Our global leadership as evidenced by our recent report from Retail Banking Research or RBR which showed that NCR has installed more intelligent deposit ATMs than any other manufacturer across Europe the Middle East and Africa and North America.
Outside of Japan and Korea we held almost 30% of the global intelligent deposit install base at the end of 2009 and all the metrics we track would suggest we increased our market share during 2010.
In terms of current demand trends in the financial sector conditions are steadily improving and we believe our investment in innovative solutions like our Scalable Deposit Module as well as converged banking solutions such our APTRA line of software solutions position us to continue capturing market share as banks unlock capital spending and aim to strengthen their competitive position.
Diversified order growth around the world including North America BICMEA and Europe demonstrates the benefit and strength of NCR's global footprint and geographic balance.
In Europe orders grew in the mid-single digits primarily driven by the U.K.
Italy and Russia.
In BICMEA strong order growth was led by Brazil and China.
In North America we continue to see uplift among the U.S.
regional banks as orders are up approximately 75% from last year's Q1.
Our converged channel offers which offer advanced ATM software solutions with online and mobile banking applications are winning us business.
For instance Bellwether Community Credit Union which serves more than 26 000 members throughout New Hampshire recently deployed NCR APTRA Mobile Banking and now provides its members with access to all 3 self-service banking channels: mobile online and ATM.
We also formed a business partnership with McAfee and have develop a new version of Solidcore Suite for APTRA that runs seamlessly with McAfee software.
NCR will be selling Solidcore Suite for APTRA to its financial customers currently running McAfee software for security management and introducing Solidcore Suite and McAfee software to new customers.
In Retail and Hospitality our market-leading self-checkout solutions are meeting the needs of the emerging consumer around the world and delivering cost and productivity gains to our customers.
Our discussions with current and potential customers continue to point to a retail upgrade cycle with self-checkout solutions a key area of conversation and interest.
We invested in innovation ahead of this curve and that's now paying off in solid revenue and order growth.
However our future in Retail is not solely in self-service channels.
We believe that there is pent-up demand for new applications and solutions addressing the point-of-sale.
One example is Veteran's Canteen Service which is deploying a new POS solution including approximately 1 100 RealPOS 70XRT POS terminals and software in over 180 VA Hospitals across the U.S.
and Puerto Rico.
Our customers are also looking hard at ways to drive improved productivity and CRM integration at the checkout counter.
This is great news for NCR as we anticipated this requirement and have invested in new solutions that solve for this need.
From an NCR perspective we intend to move beyond CRM to CPM: customer preference management.
And NCR's Enterprise Preference Manager launched with success at NRF in January is getting a lot of attention and opens up new opportunities for NCR to move into software-based solutions.
As we look ahead in Retail one of the more exciting market opportunities for us is Brazil.
We recently announced that we are expanding our solutions and services for retailers in Brazil and are implementing a new sales coverage model throughout the country with a focus on new channel partner relationships.
According to the industry research firm Euromonitor retail spending in Brazil is expected to grow 6% per year over the next 5 years trailing only China and India.
Retailers of all types are expanding quickly in the emerging markets and NCR plans to address these growing markets more aggressively over the next few years.
Our efforts in Brazil are consistent with our focus on capitalizing on expanding addressable market and taking advantage of our global reach.
To accomplish this goal NCR has also embarked on a new global expansion strategy aimed at aggressively growing our indirect business across the retail financial services travel and healthcare sectors.
We believe our indirect sales partners offer unique value-added and market knowledge given their local footprint and customer specific expertise.
We are working to build a world-class indirect channel infrastructure that will enable NCR to reach even more customers in more markets around the world.
We have been strengthening our indirect channel presence over the past several years and believe now is the right time to increase our investment.
Many of our transformational changes of the past several years such as our construction of a global manufacturing network the spin-off of Teradata the reorganization into a line-of-business model and the move of our corporate headquarters are all well behind us and have set the stage for NCR to increase our engagement with the indirect channel.
We continue to invest in this space as evidenced by the addition of experience and knowledgeable channel leadership our focus on product offers and solutions that are channel-ready and enablement of our partners to increase channel services opportunities and disciplined sales governance.
We recently held our global partners conference in Orlando Florida.
We had partners attend from over 180 diverse companies representing 67 countries around the world and the response to our plan was very positive.
Our partners are motivated and excited about our increased level of commitment and share our vision for the future of self-service.
They know that NCR understands the world of customers are operating in and the need for multi-channel enablement and converged channel innovation.
They are excited about the mutual growth opportunities our expanded relationship offers them and the ability to sell an expanded portfolio of hardware software and services.
So to quickly summarize our terrific start to the year for NCR with revenue and NPOI growth well on track with our newly revised 2011 outlook.
We're executing very well in our core Financial and Retail businesses capitalizing on the benefits of our global leadership position and delivering a strong value proposition to customers supported by the most innovative solutions in the markets we serve.
I'll now turn the call over to John Bruno to update you in more detail on some of the industry initiatives I've mentioned and then Bob will review this quarter's financial results.
John? Thank you Bill.
And good afternoon everyone.
Bill discussed our core lines of businesses so I'd like to give an update and provide some additional detail on our progress deploying self-service solutions across our Entertainment and other Emerging Industries segment.
Looking first in Entertainment we ended the quarter with approximately 8 900 kiosks deployed compared to 8 000 at the end of 2010.
Our average fleet age remains around 8 months and we grew our quarterly same-store sales 16% sequentially and 51% year-over-year.
As we discussed on our last conference call we decided to scale back the rate of new deployments during the fourth quarter of 2010 and utilized infield performance data to evaluate how our deployed kiosks were performing.
This allowed us to more thoroughly evaluate potential and future deployment locations to ensure that they are consistent with our long-term profitability objectives.
A total of 1 200 new deployments were completed in Q1 in a select number of large grocery convenience and drugstore partners.
Key new business wins included RaceTrac convenience stores where we'll place kiosks in more than 300 locations in 5 states throughout the Southeast.
We've already installed 200 kiosks in RaceTrac stores and expect the remaining kiosks to be installed by June of this year.
Last quarter I shared with you that we identified 1 600 underperforming kiosks.
During late Q4 and throughout Q1 we've been hard at work to improve performance by addressing on-site issues or redeploying machines to more strategic locations where we believe we can grow transactions and improve our per-unit economics.
The effort is going well.
The team is moving with speed and efficiency but also with great diligence as we zero in on per-unit economics.
During the first quarter we redeployed approximately 300 kiosks with solid retail partners in geographic locations that met our requirements.
We expect to redeploy another 700 kiosks in Q2.
We continue to believe in and test premium pricing for selected content.
We expanded our test run with Twentieth Century Fox in the first quarter from 4 cities to a national day and date rollout with the hit film Black Swan and the results continue to surpass our expectations confirming that our customers enjoy having the choice of renting the latest new release movies at a premium while still retaining access to our broad $1 per night movie selection.
Additional and broader testing is set to take place during the second quarter as we strive to further demonstrate the market potential of premium-priced new releases.
We continue to believe there is great potential for a premium-priced content as it offers consumers even further choice and we believe this could be a key competitive advantage for NCR in the future.
Marketing is also a key element of the performance plaid.
We are forming strategic relationships in an effort to increase consumer awareness around our offerings.
We recognize that for a number of our consumers the experience of watching a movie involves a bowl of popcorn and a beverage.
As a result we're utilizing cross-selling with brands like Coca-Cola Orville Redenbacher popcorn and Anheuser-Busch to help drive transaction volumes across our kiosk footprint.
NCR entered the Entertainment business just under 2 years ago and we are fine-tuning our site selection process with a focus on key partners and geographic density.
We're also refining our business model by testing new offers that accelerate the availability of new released titles for our customers.
The potential for this businesses is exciting and we remain confident about our ability to grow this business in the years ahead.
Now let's look at the businesses that comprise our Emerging Industries segment: Telecom and Technology; Travel and Gaming; and Healthcare.
In Telecom and Technology we're experiencing growth within the space of our business.
In the Telecom space our go-to-market offering for strategic business services continues to capture market share by providing the next-generation networking requirement such as IP telephony Virtual Private Networks MPLS and a wide area network acceleration for our Customers Premise Environment or CPE.
NCR acts as the preferred service partner for over 40 global telecom companies providing on-site services to enable the carriers to deploy their CPE solutions globally.
Expanding on this space Easynet and NCR formed a global managed service partnership through which NCR will provide hardware procurement on-site hardware installation and maintenance support service to Easynet's network customers.
The partnership will help deliver faster rollout times and higher levels of availability to Easynet customers in over 190 countries worldwide.
Within the Technology business we're expanding our OEM partnerships to support the innovative technology that our customers are implementing to drive improved business efficiency and flexibility.
Wireless LAN is one such technology where its adoption continues to advance through an improved capability in speed mesh and voice.
NCR recently signed a service partnership agreement with Aruba to provide installation and maintenance support services.
We now provide wireless LAN services for the 3 major OEMs in the market: Cisco Juniper and Aruba.
In the Travel and Gaming category we continue to reinforce our commitment to transform the travel experience.
One of the largest North American ground transportation providers is currently deploying 150 NCR kiosks throughout 25 U.S.
cities enabling passengers to purchase or pick up their tickets.
This partnership is the first of its kind.
We're also expanding our mobile footprint worldwide enabling travelers on Delta Airlines U.S.
Airways West Jet Qatar Airways and others to check in for their flight on their mobile devices.
More than 8 million mobile boarding passes have been delivered over our platform since its launch and over 1 million of those boarding passes were issued in March alone.
We're increasing our wallet share as well refreshing and expanding our self-service footprint among its existing customers.
Alaska Airlines is replacing its first-generation NCR kiosks at its hubs in Seattle Washington and Anchorage.
The new kiosk is designed to further improve passenger throughput and will also include local and remote system management for optimum systems maintenance.
Lastly in Healthcare our solutions offer the integration of patient self-service channel so information could rapidly easily and securely be shared across networks which can help significantly cut hospital administrative work time.
During the second quarter of 2011 we will begin rolling out a new offer NCR Customer Value  Management 5.0 which is a completely integrated solution across kiosks online mobile and tablet channels.
This new system will allow our customers to deploy the system in less than half the time of our previous generation product.
Moreover it will integrate patient registration payment management form management and portal technology in a single database and platform.
Due to IT investments being part of the high-tech back [ph] as well as IDMs preparing for upcoming changes in healthcare reform we're experiencing increased interest from our customers' deployed self-service technology that can help improve patient satisfaction and reduce healthcare administrative costs.
In short we're not only strengthening our core offers in Financial Services and Retail and Hospitality but we continue to innovate in adjacent industries leveraging our unique multi-industry consumer insight.
Our intent is to deliver a differentiated experience to our customers and ultimately their consumers across multiple industries.
We intend to do so through a leading combination of best-in-class hardware enabled through a software driven business model complemented by the industry's best service offer.
We believe there are many exciting developments to come for NCR as we bring our expertise energy and core value to these industries and capitalize on these growing business opportunities.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks John.
NCR's total revenue from continuing operations in the first quarter was $1.1 billion up 6% versus Q1 2010.
First quarter revenues include a 2% benefit from foreign currency translation.
We reported GAAP income from continuing operations attributable to NCR of $10 million or $0.06 per diluted share.
This compares the GAAP loss from continuing operations attributable to NCR of $19 million or $0.12 per diluted share in Q1 2010.
NCR's results from continuing operations includes special items in both periods.
Income from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2011 included $51 million or $0.22 per diluted share after-tax of pension expense and $3 million or $0.01 per diluted share of benefit from the final settlement of a litigation matter.
Income from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2010 included $56 million or $0.25 per diluted share after-tax of pension expense and $5 million or $0.02 per diluted share after-tax of incremental costs related to the relocation of the company's global headquarters.
Excluding these items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.27 per share in Q1 2011 compared to non-GAAP earnings of $0.15 per diluted share in Q1 2010.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effect of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release that reconciles our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q1 2011 gross margin was 21.8% up 30 basis points from 21.5% in the prior year period resulting from higher product sales favorable mix and the successful implementation of cost reduction initiatives driven by our continuous improvement program.
Operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were 16.6% of revenue in Q1 2011 versus 17.3% in Q1 2010.
The decrease was the result of a continued focus on expenses even with a higher revenue growth.
Total company non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $57 million in the first quarter compared to $43 million in last year's Q1.
Other income net was $6 million the first quarter of 2011 compared to $1 million in the prior year period.
Other income in the first quarter of 2011 included a $3 million benefit from a litigation matter settled during the quarter and $2 million from the sale of certain patents.
Income tax expense was $1 million in the first quarter compared to a benefit of $1 million in Q1 2010.
NCR expects its full year 2011 effective tax rate to be approximately 27%.
Turning to the balance sheet cash on hand was $480 million at March at the end of the quarter with total debt of $11 million as well at the end of the quarter.
We repurchased $35 million or 1.8 million shares of NCR stock in the first quarter.
Approximately $197 million of board authorization remains under our current share repurchase plan with an additional $13 million available under the dilution-offset program.
Moving to the cash flow statement NCR generated $44 million of cash from operating activities in Q1 2011 compared to $22 million in the prior year period.
Cash from operating activities in Q1 2011 was positively impacted by a slight improvement in working capital period-over-period.
Net capital expenditures totaled $39 million Q1 2011 compared to $51 million in the prior year period primarily as a result of reduced capital expenditure in the Entertainment business.
Discontinued operations yielded $1 million of cash outflow in Q1 2011 compared to $8 million of cash outflow in Q1 2010 primarily due to reduce spend related to the Fox River matter.
NCR generated free cash flow of $4 million in Q1 2011 compared to free cash flow used of $37 million in Q1 2010.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plant and equipment in addition to capitalized software.
We expect free cash flow for full year of 2011 to be in the range of $50 million to $75 million.
Entertainment CapEx is expected to be about $50 million lower in 2011.
The total CapEx for the company will be about $180 million and depreciation will be approximately $160 million.
Cash taxes are expected to be approximately $70 million in 2011.
Cash funding requirements for the Fox River environmental matter are expected to be the range of $30 million to $40 million cash outflow in 2011.
And finally we'd expect working capital to be slightly higher as revenues are expected to grow in 2011.
Free cash flow tends to vary by quarter and we expect lower free cash flow in Q2 and Q3 to support higher revenues offset by increased free cash flow in Q4.
Finally as Bill mentioned we transitioned to a line-of-business reporting structure beginning in the first quarter of 2011.
Our revenue expectations on a constant currency basis for each line of business for the full year 2011 are as follows: In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow 4% to 6% including Services which should grow in the low single digits; in Retail and Hospitality we expect revenues to increase 2% to 4% including Services growth in the low single digits; for Entertainment we expect revenues to rise 75% to 100% and be in the range of $175 million to $200 million EBITDA to be in the range of $10 million to $20 million for the year and an NPOI loss of approximately $25 million to $35 million; in Emerging Industries we expect revenues to be up 10% to 15%.
I would also like to note that we have provided reconciliations of NCR's historical results to this new line-of-business structure via supplemental schedules available on our website.
Now I will turn the call back over to Bill for closing comments.
Thank you Bob.
NCR had a good start to 2011.
Order momentum has carried over from 2010.
We entered Q2 with a strong backlog and we're doing a good job of attaching and expanding NCR Services.
Our Entertainment business is seeing improved performance as we implement our plan to strengthen and add to our geographic footprint with an objective of driving better per-unit economics.
Our Emerging Industries are knocking wins as we educate potential customers in fields like travel about what our technologies can do for their business.
And internally we are delivering on our cost and productivity improvement goals.
As committed and on schedule we've successfully transitioned our reporting model to a line-of-business structure consistent with how we're managing the business on a global basis.
We are also broadening our go-to-market capabilities through our commitment to grow our indirect channel which will help us capitalize on our global leadership position in self-service.
And finally we are also executing on our strategic plan regarding pension and seeing improved results on the balance sheet.
The results we're delivering across the organization are being driven by our strong strategic focus our commitment to operating discipline and in ongoing innovation in every part of our company resulting in an increasingly competitive product portfolio.
This combination is enabling us to offer an unmatched value proposition to our customers across every segment we serve creating an environment to grow our revenues faster than the secular market.
Match that with the increasing productivity and efficiency within NCR and ultimately we are positioning the company to generate profitable revenue growth and increased value to our shareholders.
Thank you and I would now like to open up the call for questions.
Operator you can open up the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Williams of Goldman Sachs.
So I guess I'd be remiss if I didn't ask the question on the Entertainment business.
Just curious to get an update on what we've talked about recently the strategic options what you guys are thinking? Obviously you're planning for it to be there but just curious to get Bill your insights into what's going on.
Well I think John the only thing I would add versus what I talked about in January with you is the fact that with Dish Network now acquiring Blockbuster we think that our optionality has improved.
So that would be the good news and I'd leave it at that for now.
Okay.
In terms of what you think -- if you were to divest that business in any point what would the dollar amount that you would need to clear in terms of what you've already invested? I just want to make sure we have that straight.
John I think we're more focused on optimizing that business and making that business a success.
It's done a really good job for the company in Q1.
We haven't put a lot of effort into valuing it per se.
And I don't think we're concerned about if we ever were in a position where the business was divested where we could get our initial investment plus back.
Okay fair enough.
Other question was just on the penetration into the Tier-2- Tier-3-type retailers and just -- obviously that takes some time.
It's not an easy sell I would bet.
But just in terms of the progress that you're making there I guess maybe if you could just characterize what your typical conversation is like with those retailers at this point and how that may be different from say 3 or 6 months ago? Well our primary go-to-market to the lower-tiered retail customers on a global basis will be through the channel.
We just had our first-ever global partner conference in Orlando Florida.
We were thrilled actually with the participation.
As I discussed in the prepared remarks we had over 180 diverse different partners show up.
Some of whom many of whom don't do any business with NCR today.
And most of whom if they do business with us do a very small amount of business.
And they represented over 65 different countries.
Those partners are partners who will go to market with us in all areas of the world all markets for financial retail and other industries.
However if you looked at orders as a good proxy for Retail we had 33% growth in orders in the last quarter.
And if you look at some of the other segments of the world for Retail that would be traditionally markets we didn't serve.
You can look at markets for example like BICMEA the emerging markets where -- on a small base but retail was up 325%.
You can look at markets like South Asia-Pacific where we traditionally haven't done business and orders were up 90%.
You can look at markets like CLA Caribbean Latin America where we had orders up 134%.
So we are making progress and beginning to win business in markets that are not traditionally strongholds of NCR in Retail but to your point it takes time to install an indirect model.
So this is something that's going to play out over the course of the next year or 2.
However I'm very encouraged with the talent we have in the company the cultural commitment to the success of the channel and the quick upticks so far of the business.
And our next question comes from Katy Huberty of Morgan Stanley.
In the press release and in the prepared remarks you mentioned a number of emerging markets that had strong financial services growth in the quarter.
Can you just talk about whether you're seeing a new inflection point of ATM adoption or is that just a continuation of what you've seen in prior years? It's largely a continuation but we have seen improved growth in certain markets.
If you look at the total BICMEA theater which is the Brazil India China Middle East and Africa our order growth in the quarter was 20% in that region on a year-over-year basis a pretty strong growth Katy.
If you looked at revenue in that space for BICMEA you saw revenue growth in that space of 19% so very strong revenue growth.
We're seeing good growth in the Middle East and Africa and in China and India in particular in those markets.
And I'd say that even if you took a peek at a region like South Asia-Pacific that has smaller emerging markets with the likes of Indonesia and Vietnam and others we grew orders 50% year-on-year in South Asia-Pacific in Financial.
So I think what we're seeing is there is in the emerging markets no question a continuing rollout of ATM products and ATM solutions as those markets are growing.
And as financial inclusion becomes more important then density becomes an issue.
We've spoken many times about the importance of watching density in terms of ATMs per million people and how far off it is in some of these emerging markets.
We're continuing to see that growth.
Yet that being said a number of our new products are making a huge difference in our growth.
We have introduced over the course of the last couple of years Katy and this is recently as a few months ago several new products that are much better positioned and priced right and at the right cost for these emerging markets.
So we're seeing a market share shift of sorts in some of those markets and better margins as a result of that.
And then just as a follow-up what are the margin implications of attacking the incremental channel opportunity? In other words you have to invest ahead of revenue and how do the gross margins compare in the channel versus the traditional direct business? Well the good news is gross margins in the channel are much higher than the direct side of our business.
So we have excellent -- an excellent margin profile in the channel.
And I would say that we have already made significant investments in the channel.
This is something we've been working on for a few years.
And so while I think there's more investment to be made I don't see it -- knee of the curve if you will really changing our expense structure because again we've already put a lot of wood behind that arrow.
The only thing I would mention is that the order growth in South Asia-Pac in Financial was 22% still pretty strong in that region not the 50% that Bill just mentioned but 22% pretty significant.
And our next question comes from Matt Summerville.
[KeyBanc Capital Markets] A couple of questions Bill can you talk in the Retail business how you see the mix evolving over the next few quarters between the assisted point-of-sale side of the business and self-checkout given some of the dynamics you talked about in your prepared remarks? I would say about the same as we've seen Matt.
So I don't think there's going to be any material change in that.
We just had a record quarter for Retail orders the best first quarter -- well frankly the best Retail quarter we've had since we did our record with 33% growth in the quarter.
And we've built a strong backlog again.
The backlog is back up in the mid-teens for Retail.
We were kind of concerned about that coming out of Q4 because we had such a great Q4 in Retail on the revenue side.
We told you in January that we had work to do in terms of building back up the backlog in Retail.
We blew it out in orders and therefore we've got a nice backlog.
And the big chunk of that backlog is self-checkout as much as it is point-of-sale.
So I think that question I'll answer that question again probably at the -- in July to see how Q2 orders go on self-checkout.
But I'm encouraged with respect to mix for 2011 as I sit here today.
Bill you were kind enough to give some order data for some of the regions in Retail and ATM business and I think that's very helpful from an emerging markets standpoint which all sound like they're doing very well for NCR.
Can you give a little more granularity in Retail and the Financial Services business what you're seeing in North America and now what you're referring to with regards to Europe? Sure.
North America we had -- in North America alone for Financial we had order growth of a little over 4% in North America so we were pleased with that.
We see North America coming back.
And what I like about North America Matt most of all is that we had year-over-year growth in the regional banks segment of 75-plus percent I think it was 77% in the Regional banks.
We had in North America order growth in Retail of 75% year-on-year a huge quarter for order growth in North America for Retail.
So that's a little bit more about North America.
In Europe we had order growth in Financial of 7% and we had order growth in -- we actually had a decline in Retail and Hospitality of 16% and that's because we had a massive Q1 last year in orders for Retail in Europe largely due to the U.K.
last year.
So we're not at all disappointed with this number from the point of view that the compare they had was just astoundingly difficult.
So that's gives you a few other key what I call the developed markets and some color on the developed markets Matt.
Very helpful Bill.
And then just one final.
Can you talk about how NCR's backlog overall backlog looked relative to year-end? I think you said at the end of the fourth quarter it was about $1 billion.
Is that still where you're at today? No.
We're just slightly under $1.1 billion.
Backlog is up year-on-year 13%.
It's probably one of the biggest backlogs we've had in many many many years Matt.
And our next question comes from Mike Saloio of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Would you be willing to help us reconcile what the difference between product growth and service growth was in the POS segment just so we're clear on the guidance? Product growth in POS you mean product and services growth in Retail? LLC</strong> It was in the POS within the POS segment.
We don't have that unfortunately in front of us.
And I don't think we report that specifically.
Again what we're trying to do is look at those as integrated solution sales within those lines of business.
So along with hardware software installation professional services and maintenance it is the total revenue for a line of business and that's how we report it.
We'll give color geographically by line of business but that's really how we look at the total business.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But the Emerging Industries piece that you're now breaking out when you were talking about orders last year that was included in POS correct? The Emerging Industries? No it -- the point-of-sale was obviously would be a product that we sell within Retail.
The Emerging Industries could consist of the businesses that John mentioned.
LLC</strong> Okay I'll take that off-line.
I guess secondly what do you think is really leading to the market share gains in North America in the ATM business? I think it's two-fold.
One is Technology.
We -- our new products particularly our SelfServ line of ATMs is the latest ATM available on the market.
And then some of the modules in particular in deposit automation the scalable deposit module which is the one-pass one-slot deposit capability which NCR only has on a global basis in the industry which is getting a lot of attention from our customers.
And the line-up of products we have Mike is significant in terms of low-end to high-end good better best if you will in terms of product segmentation and getting better if you will.
I'd also say services delivery has improved quite a bit.
We have done a terrific job in the company of improving service delivery.
We're getting higher customer loyalty scores and satisfaction scores as a result of that.
And we're gaining business on the back of great service delivery.
So it's a combination of technology in terms of product line-up modules that are best-in-class in particular in deposit and service delivery.
And one thing I wanted to just clarify for for Matt Summerville this is one of the highest year-on-year backlog growths we've had at 13%.
Not in dollar terms.
We've had higher backlog in dollar terms in the past.
This is a good number the $1.93 billion Matt but it's -- 13% year-over-year is one of the higher year-over-year growths we've had not exactly in gross dollar terms.
And our next question in queue comes from Kartik Mehta of Northcoast Research.
Bill I just want to make sure I understand something in Financial Services you said that revenue grew 3%.
But I think on a constant currency it would've been flat.
And I think in the press release it says that you saw growth across most geographies.
So is there a geography maybe where you didn't see growth and -- that would reconcile maybe flat constant currency? Yes North America was down in the mid-single digits in revenue but up the same in orders.
Our Caribbean and Latin America region was up 12% in revenue.
Europe was about flat year-on-year in revenue.
As I mentioned earlier BICMEA was up about 19%.
Japan Korea was up 1% and South Asia-Pacific it was up 2%.
So that gives you a little more color at least on revenue not on orders.
So any reason maybe the first quarter in North America was down? Is it seasonality? Are just seeing a back-end load of orders or is it something else? It was a combination of one is a tough compare it was a really good Q1 last year I think in this region.
Two back-end loaded orders particularly at the end of Q4 that are rolling out now in Q2 which is why our backlog in Financial Services is huge.
It's truly a big number.
I mean we're very pleased with where we are in backlog.
The knee of the curve on growth in Financial Services is going to change in Q2 particularly in North America with -- through the business we won at the end of Q4 and frankly a lot of the business we won that drove our order growth in Q1 and what we're even seeing here at the beginning of Q2.
So we're pretty pleased with our position there but I'd say it's a combination of that tough compare and the back-end loaded nature of orders at the end of Q4 that just drove that in Q1.
So it sounds like for the year you'd expect North America to be up somewhere around mid-single digits? Is that fair Bill? That's fair.
That's a very fair comment.
The services margins really improved nicely in the first quarter of this year compared to last year and I'm wondering is that something that you see sustainable throughout the year that you could potentially see an increase from here or you're 20% and that's what we should expect for all of 2011? Our goal is to eventually get services margins into the mid-30s so we're on a good path.
That's a long term goal and I would expect us to continue to see margin improvement on a sequential basis and year-on-year.
We're working hard at a combination of 2 factors to drive that margin growth: one is top line; and the second is cost reduction programs or productivity improvement programs.
And I feel pretty confident in the team and our ability to do that this year.
And I guess the same question for product margins obviously lower.
Would you anticipate product margins to stay flat for this year compared to last year or as the mix is going more international especially some of the emerging markets would you expect product margins to be lower year-over-year? Product margins first of all are impacted by Entertainment Kartik so one of the things you need to know is actually if you strip out Entertainment hardware margins would've been up on year-on-year.
So Entertainment obfuscates the hardware margins a bit so be aware of that.
That being said I think hardware margins will tend to be where they are.
They could be slightly lower as the year goes on as the mix changed to emerging markets versus mature markets but that's not our goal.
So I'm trying to set your expectations right that you could see hardware margins decline slightly but I would be disappointed if that occurred.
And then just a final question Bill.
Obviously based on your commentary on the order growth in North America and especially what you're seeing in the regional bank market I'm wondering as this upgrade cycle that seems to have just started what kind of -- how long you'd expect that to last? Is this a 1 year 2-year or 3-year just based on your conversations with banks and the order growth that you see? It's kind of a 2-year thing Kartik.
It's not dissimilar to the upgrade cycle that had started several years ago in the large banks.
It's going to be about 2 years I think.
The good news is when this is up the large banks are going to be implementing new technology in deposit and we feel pretty good about that.
So I think you could have a replacement cycle opportunity coming in 2013 '14 for the large banks as they move from what was phase 1 or first-generation deposit technology to what's currently available today which is markedly different.
And our last question comes from Michelle [ph] for Gil Luria of Wedbush.
How has the long term goals that you've set on your Analyst's Day changed in the last 6 months since you laid them out? Do you feel more or less confident you can achieve those revenue and margin targets? Just from a quantitative perspective our goals -- the numbers that I gave as part of the revenue growth by line of business have not changed.
Certainly the order growth and the backlog information that Bill shared has made us more convinced in terms of achieving those goals.
So we're obviously comfortable with the good Q4 and the good Q1.
And it's a great start in terms of achieving those longer-range goals.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Well I want to thank everybody for joining us today.
We look forward to updating you on our progress in July.
All the best.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Gavin Bell.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Don.
Good afternoon and thanks everyone for joining us for our second quarter 2011 earnings call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will lead our conference call this afternoon.
After Bill’s opening remarks John Bruno Executive Vice President of our Industry Solutions Group will update you on progress with respect to certain key initiatives; Bob Fishman NCR’s Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on NCR’s total company financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecast and other information that are considered forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor page of NCR’s website.
A replay of this conference call will be available on NCR’s website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of July 21 2011 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this conference call whether as a result of new information or future results.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Gavin.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us.
Our second quarter results were strong and demonstrate the continuation of the positive business trends we've experienced over the past several quarters.
The recovery in our core financial and retail industries is gaining traction.
NCR's commitment to innovation has positioned us to win market share with leading technologies and solutions that deliver competitive advantages to our customers.
This valued proposition extends to our Emerging Industries where we are expanding in the telecom and technology travel and entertainment verticals.
The momentum and underlying strength across our Solutions business is supported by the solid performance of our Services group during the quarter as well as our ongoing commitment to strengthening NCR as a company and accelerating our growth prospects.
This strategy is clearly evidenced by our planned acquisition of Radiant Systems.
As you know we signed a definitive merger agreement to purchase Radiant Systems in a transaction valued at roughly $1.2 billion.
This acquisition is a perfect fit for NCR as it will add category leadership in hospitality convenience and specialty retail.
We've talked about hospitality being a natural growth vertical for NCR and by virtue of this transaction we'll become an immediate market share leader.
Radiant possesses proven category expertise and together with our global reach in resources we will create a robust and globally accessible suite of solutions and technologies supported by a best-in-class services organization.
We believe that the revenue opportunities available from this highly complementary combination are significant and we also expect the combination will generate annualized pretax cost synergies of approximately $40 million to $50 million to be realized over 3 years.
We believe the combination of NCR's and Radiant's assets and the mutual importance placed on software-enabled business models on innovation and on superior customer service will translate into accelerated growth in the years ahead.
Now let's take a look at our results for the quarter beginning with NCR in total.
Orders grew 15% revenues increased 12% and backlog is up 16% year-on-year.
In the Financial Services business revenues grew 15% year-on-year as we again demonstrated good geographic balance with solid performance across a number of key regions including BICMEA North America Europe and Caribbean Latin America.
We continued to drive strong order growth which was up 27% year-on-year.
And our backlog is currently ahead of last year by 23%.
In the Retail and Hospitality segment ongoing rollouts of our self-checkout and point-of-sale solutions drove 3% year-on-year revenue growth.
Orders in the second quarter were down 7% from last year's Q2.
However orders are up 11% on a year-to-date basis.
And the good news is that backlog is up 10% over last year's second quarter.
Our Services business demonstrated strong growth in the second quarter as revenues increased 12% and gross margins expanded 230 basis points compared to last year.
NCR Services is becoming an increasingly important component of our growth strategy and our investments in management personnel technology and delivery capabilities are driving improved results.
Our best-in-class services delivery and differentiated offers are providing an assortment of strategic and competitive benefits to our customers.
The potential for our Services business is underscored by recent third-party validation as NCR reached its highest ever ranking #8 in the 2011 Global Outsourcing 100 rankings prepared by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals.
We were also ranked as the global market share leader in industry product support for 2010 by Gartner.
We expect to generate solid revenue growth as we continue to innovate and expand service offers to our customers such as Predictive Services.
We also expect margin expansion to continue in our Services business this year as our ongoing continuous improvement program cascades throughout the entire services organization.
Turning now to our Entertainment business revenues grew 65% year-on-year and same-store sales growth grew 30% versus last year's Q2.
This revenue growth stemmed from improved per-unit economics as we enhanced our kiosk footprint with the effective redeployment of underperforming kiosks.
We continue to execute well on our Entertainment strategy while also maintaining optionality with the business.
As I mentioned on our conference call last week we are actively exploring strategic options for our Entertainment business and have engaged in discussions with several interested parties.
We continue to seek the best alternative for our Entertainment business.
John will provide you with a more in-depth update on the performance of our Entertainment business in a few minutes.
During the second quarter we made additional progress implementing our cost-reduction plan.
We remain on target and expect to achieve $75 million to $100 million in annualized cost reductions while also further executing on our 3-year plan of $200 million to $300 million in reduced costs.
It's important to note that these improvements are being driven by our intense focus on securing productivity gains across our entire product life cycle including design and development manufacturing services and distribution.
Our commitment to cost management and the steady execution across our businesses is translating into strong NPOI growth as second quarter NPOI was $101 million compared to $88 million last year an increase of 15%.
Given our performance during the second quarter along with continued strong underlying demand fundamentals in our core businesses we are raising our full year guidance.
We expect revenues in 2011 to increase in the range of 6% to 8% on a constant currency basis.
We expect non-pension operating income or NPOI to be in the range of $385 million to $400 million for the year an increase of 16% to 20% compared to 2010.
And we expect non-GAAP earnings per share excluding pension expense to be in the range of $1.73 to $1.80 in 2011 an increase of 13% to 18% compared to 2010.
Now I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing our financial and retail businesses in more detail.
I'll then turn the call over to John who will talk about our Emerging Industries including Entertainment in greater detail.
In Financial Services we are benefiting from our expenses and integrated global presence as order growth increased in most key regions.
Overall demand trends are strengthening and our ability to deliver solutions aimed at facilitating current and future interactions across multiple channels continues to bear fruit.
We are therefore raising our full year revenue guidance for Financial Services to 6% to 8% growth on a constant currency basis up from previous guidance of 4% to 6%.
In North America overall order growth was up 127% compared to the prior-year period.
We also continue to see significant growth in the U.S.
regional bank segments as orders are up approximately 115% from last year's Q2.
Our converged channel offers which offer advanced multichannel software solutions online and mobile banking applications are winning us business.
Banks are looking to strengthen their competitive position through investments to enhance the consumer experience and NCR is stationed at the forefront of this opportunity.
One example of this is our Scalable Deposit Module or SDM technology.
SDM greatly reduces ATM transaction times by allowing consumers to deposit up to 50 checks and notes at one time in any orientation in a single bunch.
This first-of-its-kind innovation has translated into improved customer satisfaction levels benefiting consumers our customers and ultimately NCR.
It has also dramatically reduced costs and increased productivity for our customers.
A group of major ATM switch providers recently completed their certification testing of SDM establishing it as compatible with key software systems.
We are currently in the process of completing additional certification processes and have already secured orders for nearly 7 000 SDM units since introducing the product in October of last year.
In the second quarter we secured orders from almost 4 000 deposit automation solutions from 4 of the top 10 U.S.
major financial institutions a majority of which were SDM.
Evidence that large banks see the value proposition of SDM and are continuing to invest in this market-leading technology.
Our suite of asset-converged banking software solutions won a number of customers during the second quarter including several U.S.
regional banks.
Broadway Bank which serves South Central Texas will utilize NCR's Solidcore for APTRA and deploy NCR's SelfServ ATM as a replacement to their existing infrastructure.
We also recently rolled out APTRA Cash Connect 6.0 which helps financial institutions monitor and integrate multi-vendor teller automation units.
On the international side VTB 24 Bank in Russia one of the largest Russian banks is implementing APTRA Relate software to drive multichannel marketing campaigns increase features delivered by the ATM and promote access to other key channels such as the Internet and mobile.
We will also help and shape the future of ATM transactions through the launch of our SelfServ 4 and SelfServ 8 financial kiosks which offer banking customers the opportunity to enhance their branch experience when completing basic branch transactions such as account opening and maintenance.
In addition we recently integrated 2-way videoconferencing into our SelfServ 32 ATMs which allows consumers to talk live to tellers through the ATM and lets banks provide 24-hour access to teleservices regardless of branch location.
In Retail and Hospitality our self-checkout and point-of-sale solutions are driving improved customer satisfaction levels and enhanced productivity and sales capabilities to our customers.
Consumer transaction channel preference continues to evolve worldwide and our robust retail product portfolio places us on strong ground as we continue through our retail upgrade cycle.
In this June Global EPOS and Self-Checkout 2011 report Retail Banking Research RBR ranked NCR as the global market leader in the self-service checkout market.
The report indicated NCR is by far the world's largest self-checkout supplier in terms of both install base and shipments.
We expect self-checkout solutions will be a prominent focus for retailers as capital spending loosens further and we are continuing to invest in our solutions and capabilities to meet our customers' need.
Our APTRA line of products also continues to connect with retail customers.
Wine Country Gift Baskets signed a multiyear renewal for NCR's APTRA eMarketing Solution.
Finally NCR recently launched an enhanced version of our advanced checkout solution which will provide a number of benefits to our customers including improved business agility as well as improved shopping experience for consumers.
We recently held our second annual continuous improvement summit which consists of an open forum for the NCR team to collaborate on ways to put the customer first.
Our goal is to create a customer experience that is best-in-class by focusing on continuous improvement and customer advocacy.
In our annual survey by our third-party partners we were pleased with the increase we saw in overall customer loyalty.
We believe further improving the overall customer experience and enhancing customer loyalty will drive business opportunities across our verticals and drive revenue growth and gross margin expansion across our businesses.
So in summary NCR generated strong orders revenue backlog NPOI and non-GAAP EPS results in the second quarter as we continue capitalizing on our expanding global business opportunities.
Our first half of 2011 has developed even better than we had expected and we provided an updated outlook for the rest of the year.
We believe our planned acquisition of Radiant Systems will positively affect our operational performance for the balance of the year and assuming as we -- we close as planned we'll provide you an updated outlook on our next quarterly earnings call.
In the meantime the fundamentals in our core markets continue to improve while our Emerging Industries and NCR Services are capturing incremental share.
We are very excited about the future of NCR given our consistent high level of execution and the many strategic benefits the acquisition of Radiant will provide.
I'll now turn the call over to John Bruno to update you in more detail on some of the industry initiatives I've mentioned.
And then Bob will review the quarter's financial results.
John? Thank you Bill and good afternoon everyone.
Bill updated you on our core lines of business so I'd like to give you an update and provide further insight onto progress deploying SelfServ solutions across Entertainment and Emerging Industry segments.
Looking first at Entertainment.
We had approximately 9 600 kiosks deployed at the end of the second quarter compared to 8 000 at the end of 2010.
As we said previously we continue to redeploy underperforming kiosks as we seek to grow our transaction volume improve our per unit economics and design our kiosk footprint to meet our profitability goals.
We are having success in this area as our per unit economics continue to improve.
As Bill mentioned revenues grew 65% and importantly same-store sales grew 30% over last year's Q2.
A total of 700 kiosks were deployed in the second quarter through partnerships across key strategic markets.
Our biggest win was a competitive one the deployment of more than 800 kiosks at Food Lion grocery stores across 11 states in the Southeast and mid-Atlantic regions.
The kiosks will also be installed at other Delhaize America supermarkets including Bottom Dollar Food Harveys and Reid's grocery stores.
Our partnership with Delhaize is particularly noteworthy because 200 of the kiosks are redeployed machines.
As you know we identified 1 600 underperforming kiosks at the end of 2010 and have been moving diligently and efficiently to adjust our offering in kiosk footprint.
Together with the 300 kiosks redeployed in Q1 we have now returned 600 kiosks to the market with valuable partners in geographic areas that we expect will strengthen our per unit economics and drive revenue and profitability growth in the quarters ahead.
We continue to pursue other strategic initiatives including premium pricing for new releases and cross-selling.
Testing of our premium pricing offering is going and results to-date continue to outpace our expectations.
The kiosk rental market is truly about the consumer choice and expanding access to quality content be it at $1 rental or premium price access to new releases whatever the customer chooses.
Expanding consumer choice through self-service channels is at the heart of what NCR does and we remain excited about the progress we are making in our Entertainment business.
Now turning to our developments across our other Emerging Industry.
In Telecom and Technology we are experiencing growth within the base of this business.
In the telecom space our go-to-market offering of strategic business service continues to capture share by providing the next-generation of network requirements such as IP telephony virtual private networking and LAN acceleration for our customer premise environments or CPE.
NCR acts as the preferred service partner for over 40 global telecom companies providing on-site services to enable the customers and carriers deploy their premise equipment solutions globally.
Within the Technology business we are expanding our OEM partnership to support this innovative technology that our customers are implementing to drive improved business efficiency and flexibility.
Wireless LAN is one such technology where its adoption continues to advance due to improved capability and speed mesh and voice.
NCR continues to shape consumer transactions in the travel category as well through advanced solutions including mobile boarding pass technology and self-service check-in.
We have developed sizable mobile footprint and we are seeing tremendous growth in the printing of mobile boarding passes.
We recently struck a partnership with Copa Airlines which is one of Latin America's leading carriers.
Copa has launched mobile check-in and boarding pass delivery technology as it looks to simplify and improve its customers' travel experiences.
We also continue to deploy self-service kiosks.
For example NCR deepened its relationships with Frontier Airlines which will be rolling out 75 NCR TouchPort 70 kiosks across 14 additional airports in the U.S.
Since the mobile solution launched in 2008 more than 10 million mobile bar code boarding passes have been delivered globally.
In Healthcare we've strengthened our NCR MediKiosks and NCR Patient Portal self-service products through the integration of electronic payment exchanges technology which drives lower transaction fee by streamlining the number of payment providers.
This advancement has already drawn market interest and support as Conifer and Blair Medical Associates have integrated the single-source payment capability into their network.
It's evident that a transformation is occurring in how consumers and businesses interact.
And our self-service expertise customer insights and commitment to deliver innovative solutions place us at the forefront of this transformation.
The value we deliver is proven as our products are resonating with consumers and delivering unique competitive advantage and tangible cost benefits to our customers.
While the financial and retail categories rest at the core of NCR our belief is using innovation and passion to address migration transaction preferences driving increased penetration and share gains across our emerging verticals.
Our global business opportunities in these businesses continue to expand and we are excited about the growth potential in the years ahead.
And with that I will hand it over to Bob.
Okay.
Thanks John.
NCR's total revenue in the second quarter was $1.31 billion up 12% versus Q2 2010.
Second quarter revenues include a 6% benefit from foreign currency translation.
We reported GAAP income from continuing operations attributable to NCR of $35 million or $0.22 per diluted share.
This compares to GAAP income from continuing operations attributable to NCR of $20 million or $0.12 per diluted share in Q2 2010.
NCR's results from continuing operations include special items in both periods.
Income from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2011 included $53 million or $0.23 per diluted share after-tax of pension expense and $1 million or $0.01 per diluted share after-tax of acquisition-related costs.
Income from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2010 included $50 million or $0.20 per diluted share after-tax of pension expense and $7 million or $0.03 per diluted share after-tax of incremental costs related to the relocation of the company's global headquarters.
Excluding these items non-GAAP diluted income per share is $0.46 per share in Q2 2011 compared to non-GAAP earnings of $0.35 per diluted share in Q2 2010.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effects of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release that reconciles our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special item from pension expense our Q2 2011 gross margin was 23% up 10 basis points from 22.9% in the prior-year period resulting from higher product sales favorable mix and the successful implementation of cost reduction initiatives driven by our continuous improvement program.
Operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were 15.3% of revenue in Q2 2011 versus 15.4% in Q2 2010.
The decrease was the result of our continued focus on expenses even with the higher revenue growth.
Total company non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $101 million in the second quarter compared to $88 million in last year's Q2.
Other expense net was $2 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 0 in the prior-year period.
Other expense in the second quarter of 2011 included interest expense of $1 million.
Income tax expense was $8 million in the second quarter compared to a benefit of $11 million in Q2 2010.
NCR expects its full year 2011 effective tax rate to be approximately 27%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Cash on hand was $457 million with total debt of $11 million at the end of the quarter.
We repurchased $35 million or approximately 1.8 million shares of NCR stock in the second quarter.
Approximately $179 million of board authorization remains under our current share repurchase plan with an additional $4 million available under the dilution-offset program.
Moving to the cash flow statement NCR generated $64 million of cash from operating activities in Q2 2011 compared to $87 million in the prior-year period.
Cash from operating activities in Q2 2011 was negatively impacted by increased investment in working capital period-over-period due to higher revenue growth in Q2 and for the remainder of the year.
Net capital expenditures totaled $42 million in Q2 2011 compared to $38 million in the prior-year period.
Discontinued operations yielded $7 million of cash outflow in Q2 2011 compared to $8 million of cash inflow in Q2 2010 primarily due to remediation payments related to the Fox River environmental matter not offset by a similar level of insurance recovery as compared to the prior-year period.
NCR generated breakeven free cash flow in Q2 2011 compared to free cash flow of $42 million in Q2 2010.
For Q2 year-to-date NCR generated $4 million of free cash flow in the 6 months ended June 30 2011 compared to $5 million in the comparable period last year.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plants and equipment in addition to capitalized software.
We continue to expect free cash flow for full year 2011 to be in the range of $50 million to $75 million.
Free cash flow tends to vary by quarter and we expect lower free cash flow in Q3 to support higher revenues offset by increased free cash flow in Q4.
Finally our revenue expectations on a constant currency basis for each line of business for the full year 2011 are as follows: In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow 6% to 8%.
In Retail and Hospitality we expect revenues to increase 2% to 4%.
For Entertainment we expect revenues to rise 75% to 100% and be in the range of $175 million to $200 million.
In Emerging Industries we expect revenues to be up 10% to 15%.
Now I will turn the call back over to Bill for closing comments.
Thank you Bob.
NCR generated strong results during the second quarter.
Steadfast execution our commitment to innovation global balance end market share gains are all contributing to sustained order momentum in our core solutions as well as continued traction in Emerging Industries.
In tandem our Services business is delivering differentiated and value-added offers to our customers and our ability to secure operational efficiencies across NCR is continuing to deliver good returns.
Our results particularly the performance in order momentum we're seeing in our core solutions have given us the comfort to raise our full year revenue and earnings guidance.
And we expect our growth profile will be greatly strengthened by our planned acquisition of Radiant.
Radiant will give NCR a third core vertical in hospitality that fits very well strategically with our existing businesses improves our revenue mix particularly in software and provides new opportunities to leverage our global footprint to drive international growth.
As you can see it's been a very successful and busy first half of the year.
We're on track with our near-term goals and we're taking the steps to set us up for an improved longer-term growth profile with higher margins.
We continue to execute well we are excited about our future and we look forward to updating you as the second half of the year unfolds.
Thank you and I'd like -- now I could turn the call back to Gavin Bell before taking questions.
Gavin? Thanks Bill.
Before we open it up to Q&amp;A and given that we discussed the Radiant acquisition on the call I wanted to mention that our call today does not represent an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell any securities.
NCR will file a tender offer statement on schedule PO including an offer to purchase a related letter of transmittal and other tender offer documents with the SEC.
These materials will be available on the SEC's website www.sec.gov and should be read carefully when available because they contain important information including the terms and conditions of the offer.
And with that I'd like to open it up for questions.
Don? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Julio Quinteros.
This is Roman Leal.
I'm going to roll one in for Julio.
I just wanted to dig a little bit deeper on the Oracle which is very strong in Financial Services.
How much of that is being driven by the smaller community banks and maybe even the credit units at this point? And then can you remind us what the -- what's the differential in terms of the economics between kind of typical small bank order versus a midsize regional order? ; Well we had very strong growth in the midsize and regional bank segment in the U.S.
this past quarter over 100% growth about 115% growth.
And that's off a fairly solid number.
So it was a driver of the year-over-year 27% total growth in the business.
It's still smaller on an aggregate basis than the whole but it's getting bigger by the quarter.
So we've been pleased with our growth there Roman.
And the economics are simple.
You should think about the midsize banks globally not just in the U.S.
as having a margin profile around twice the margin profile that we get in large banks either top 10 or 20 banks around the world.
So call it mid-40s to high-40s in that segment it can even go higher.
On certain quarters we're in the low 50s versus mid-20s in large banks.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then on the Entertainment business obviously you're moving along and redeploying some of these underperforming kiosks.
Just curious to hear you're speaking to multiple parties and just kind of you still hold on to the optionality there.
What's -- in your view what's the kind of best case scenario here? Or what's your kind of ideal outcome? What -- I don't know if there's a best case scenario here.
I think we feel very good about how the business is operating today.
On a go-forward basis we feel good about this business becoming profitable next year significantly.
But we do have significant interest that's been expressed by multiple parties for this business.
So at the end of the day we're going to do what's in the best interest of the shareholder.
And analyze any external offer partnership or acquisition as well as internally what we think we can return to the shareholders over a reasonable amount of time running this business as part of NCR.
The next question comes from Katy Huberty.
First on the services side of the business it surprised [ph] both on revenue and margins versus our model.
So can you talk about where you are in the reinvestment and restructuring of that segment? Are you ahead of plan given the results this quarter? Yes we're well ahead of plan Katy.
This business has done extraordinarily well for the last several quarters.
We feel very good about where we are today.
And we've made significant investments over the last 2 to 3 years in multiple dimensions In people in management in infrastructure in systems and tools.
And so what we're seeing now is a combination of the productivity gains as a result of those investments but we've also put a lot of time and effort into the creation of new offers widening the offers we sell into the marketplace.
So we are no longer just a break fix and manage services business.
Our offers are becoming much wider through our customer set.
We're expanding those offers in multiple industries and we're expanding those offers in multiple countries in multiple industries.
So what we're seeing now is the growth that's coming along with that plan.
We did not anticipate the growth to be quite as robust as it is today as early in the process of this transformation.
We're pleased with it.
That being said we've got to continue the momentum.
So there's a lot of work ahead of us to continue that momentum.
Frankly I'm pleased about the Radiant acquisition because it allows us once closed to expand the services footprint into this vertical market known as hospitality that segment of the market and this is a chance to expand that footprint.
John? Yes Katy I'd add only one additional comment to Bill's and that would be our team has done a very good job in protecting and enhancing the base book of business a thing we call file value which year-on-year we look at the total book of business and we always estimate erosion in your file value contracts that may not renew or pricing that may not be what it needs to do in your plan.
And our team has done a solid job in minimizing file value erosion and maintaining the profitability on those deals.
And that only happens when you deliver excellent service.
So the enhancements for the service portfolio and all the changes within the business has truly allowed for us to protect that base and then enhance it with all the things that Bill mentioned.
And now with the ability to go into the hospitality market and down market with Radiant is just a great opportunity for us given the size breadth and depth of that business.
Yes.
And lastly Katy when you look at our Telecom and Technology business which is now becoming a sizable services business I mentioned to you earlier that we're expanding our offers.
We're now providing services value-added services at mid-40s margins to telecom companies becoming essentially their arm for delivery of managed services and OEMs becoming their back-end for delivery of services as well.
That business grew 22% year-on-year.
So again a number of adjacencies we've expanded into are growing faster than we quite frankly expected.
The next question comes from Gil Luria.
You raised guidance by $0.03 but it looks like the core business you raised the guidance buy a lot more than that.
It looks like in DVD you're already at the high end of your guidance in terms of loss for the year.
Would you mind updating your guidance for the DVD loss for the year so we can get a sense of how much better the core business is doing? Go ahead Bob.
Yes.
We gave a range at the beginning of the year for the Entertainment business and there's no doubt that we're probably tracking closer to the higher I would say the higher end of that loss.
And so we need the core businesses to make up for that.
That being said we are on track to deliver the revenue for the business.
We had a good Q1 and a good Q2.
The financial business has strong backlog to support the NPOI for the full year.
And the Retail business is going into the back half of the year with backlog up 10%.
So core business doing well Entertainment roughly on track and the Emerging Industries are continuing to track towards that 10% to 15% revenue growth.
I thought your original guidance was $25 million to $35 million NPOI loss and you're already at $32 million after the second quarter.
Wouldn't that mean that we're going to be above the high end of the range for Entertainment for the year? Yes there is no doubt Gil we have work to do.
What the back half of the year is suggesting is we've got an extra $25 million of revenue than what we did in the first half of the year.
That plus some efficiencies in the business...
Will flow-through on that revenue [indiscernible]...
Well the flow-through on the revenue should be strong.
So I'm saying we're at the top end.
We've got a shot at making that negative $35 million loss.
We're pushing the team hard Gil and I'm not giving up on making that negative $35 million loss.
But you're right year-to-date the number is tracking and causes some pressure on the back half of the year.
Then my second question is on Europe.
There's been some technology companies that have reported issues in Europe.
It seems like you're still doing well.
Could you help us quantify how well you're doing there? Maybe help us understand the contribution from how well that market is doing for you versus how much you're doing from share gains? Total orders Gil in Europe were up a little over 16% year-on-year.
We did get significant help from foreign currency translation but even then orders were up healthily on a year-over-year basis.
On the revenue side of the equation revenue for Europe we were up a little bit year-on-year call it 3% for scale on revenue.
So we built a little backlog in the quarter.
I'd say the biggest driver of our success in Europe is Financial.
Financial in Europe was up over 33% year-on-year for us so a very significant growth in orders in Financial on a year-on-year basis.
When you look at revenue again Financial was a key driver up 6%.
By the way software and technology that Telecom and Technology business and services was up 28% year-on-year in that market and becoming very substantial in terms of revenue but Financial is the key driver.
We're seeing good traction in Europe Gil.
No question that the macroenvironment in Europe continues to concern us on a long-term basis but we're executing very well there and we had a solid quarter.
I'm showing no further questions in the queue.
Okay.
Thank you very much folks for joining our call and we'll talk to you next quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And I would now like to turn the call over to Gavin Bell.
Thank you you may begin.
Thank you Jared.
Good afternoon and thanks everyone for joining us for our Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will lead our conference call this afternoon.
After Bill's opening remarks John Bruno Executive Vice President of our Industry Solutions Group will update you on progress with respect to certain key initiatives; Bob Fishman NCR's Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on NCR's total company financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor page of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on our website www.ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of October 27 2011 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this conference call whether as a result of new information or future results.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Bill Nuti.
Thank you Gavin and good afternoon to all of you and thank you for joining us.
Our record third quarter performance is a direct result of good execution across our businesses and solid demand for our core solutions.
And the results give us the confidence to raise our full year revenue non-GAAP operating income and free cash flow guidance.
In addition we completed 2 important strategic transactions.
The acquisition of Radiant Systems and our strategic alliance with Scopus Technology in Brazil both of which will further accelerate our global growth prospects and help shape NCR's future.
Despite heightening economic concerns including the sovereign debt issues in Europe demand for our solutions remained healthy particularly in the Financial Services segment where Q3 orders grew 57% on a global basis versus the prior year period.
Financial Services order growth was balanced across the board with increases of 106% in North America 109% in our emerging markets theater BICMEA 20% in Caribbean Latin America and 17% in Europe.
Total company orders grew 36% in Q3 compared to the prior year period and are up 22% year-to-date.
The third quarter of 2011 was the best quarter with respect to order volume in NCR's history and our backlog at the end of Q3 was also at a record $1.2 billion up 23% year-over-year.
It's important to note that these metrics are apples-to-apples as they exclude the impact of the Radiant Systems acquisition and are indicative of both the high level of execution across our core businesses as well as the value proposition of our solutions we provide our customers.
We are not immune to global macroeconomic forces but we do deliver solutions to our customers that demonstrably increase productivity reduce cost and improve the consumer experience.
I'll speak to specific lines of business more in a moment but from a high-level we had a record order growth in Financial Services which is benefiting in the U.S.
from ongoing upgrades by regional banks many of whom delayed purchases over the past couple of years and Brazil where we booked the largest order in the history of our company in Q3.
Our Scalable Deposit Module or SDM technology is playing an important role in our success.
SDM has been widely adopted by the top 10 U.S.
banks.
However in the last 2 quarters we have seen increasing adoption by regional banks now that most major switching networks have certified the SDM.
We are receiving orders from U.S.
regionals and as well as the majors and expect to deliver more than 5 000 SDMs -- units in 2011.
Meanwhile our Retail business has generated year-to-date order growth and our services business continues to achieve better-than-expected revenue growth increasing gross margins and improving the tax rates.
We also continue to gain traction in our emerging verticals particularly Telecom and Technology and Travel.
In August we completed our acquisition of Radiant Systems which gives us a leadership position in a highly complementary third vertical hospitality.
As we have previously discussed with you this new vertical market offers significant revenue synergy opportunities for NCR from both a customer and geographic standpoint.
And most importantly the business's technologies and market approach accelerate our drive to a more software-enabled business model in the years ahead.
On an organic basis NCR is making great progress in changing our revenue mix to higher-margin software solutions including SaaS-based subscription products.
For example software orders grew 60% while revenue was up 23% year-on-year.
Margins were also up over 1 400 basis points to approximately 52%.
Wins like Kroenke Sports and Entertainment and Speedway LLC are a clear indication of the value we provide our customers.
Kroenke recently signed a multi-year renewal of our software-as-a-service or SaaS NCR APTRA eMarketing solution.
They own and operate several professional teams and venues including Pepsi Center Denver Nuggets and the Colorado Avalanche.
Kroenke's Denver properties use NCR's cloud-based solution to provide highly personalized communications based on the customer's preference.
Speedway a gasoline convenience store company has selected NCR Advanced Marketing Solution and NCR Enterprise Preference Manager to power its next-generation Speedy Rewards customer loyalty program.
These products are part of the NCR c-tailing solutions a set of software and services that enable retailers to offer customers greater personalization and consistency across channels such as e-commerce mobile devices social media and in-store.
Overtime we will share more with you on our progress in software as it is becoming a very meaningful percentage of our revenue stream.
From an operational standpoint our Radiant integration plan remains on track with synergy expectations tracking to our plan.
We said that consolidating Radiant would provide annualized pretax cost synergies in the $40 million to $50 million range over the next 3 years and that remains our expectation.
Moreover we have been pleased with customer reaction to the acquisition and revenue synergy opportunities.
We also announced in July the formation of a strategic alliance with Scopus Technology in Brazil.
Concurrently we secured Scopus' parent company Banco Bradesco as a major ATM customer.
The transaction recently closed and in the third quarter Bradesco placed an initial order for more than 6 000 ATMs from NCR Manaus but first under our supply agreement that has a target of 30 000 ATMs over the next 5 years.
The Scopus alliance is an important strategic milestone for NCR in one of the world's largest and fastest-growing markets.
But one we are historically we had not invested sufficient resources to claim a leadership position.
That has changed.
By bringing in Scopus to take a 49% stake in NCR Manaus we're taking the next step in a plan that began when we opened our ATM manufacturing facility in Brazil in late 2009.
The goal of opening locally was to better position NCR to partner with customers who in Brazil value local sourcing and customized ATM technologies and capabilities.
We believe this new alliance offers strong opportunities for future growth as we look to utilize Scopus' unparalleled local market knowledge and expertise to deliver manufacturing productivity and time to market gains in the fourth largest ATM market in the world.
Beyond financial services Brazil offers NCR significant growth potential in Retail Hospitality and also Travel.
Now let's take a more closer look at our results for the quarter by line of business.
Looking first at Financial Services.
We generated 18% revenue growth year-over-year due to ongoing solid performance across most key regions including North America Europe South Asia Pacific and CLA.
Our Financial Services business also continues to serve as a key driver of our company-wide backlog growth.
Financial Services global orders grew 57% year-on-year in the third quarter which drove backlog growth of 40% the highest level of backlog in this segment's history.
As a result we are raising our full year revenue guidance for Financial Services to growth  of 7% to 9% on a constant currency basis up from our previous guidance of 6% to 8%.
Demand trends in Financial Services continue to demonstrate strength across all of our global regions.
This includes the midsize and regional segment of the U.S.
banking industry where banks are unlocking capital spending so they can realize the benefits of technologies like our Scalable Deposit Module or SDM as well as our APTRA software line of converged banking solutions.
North America orders grew 106% and backlog was up 96% versus the prior year period with growth coming from both the U.S.
regionals where orders grew almost 300% and the major banks were orders rose 19% over the third quarter of 2010.
Key customer wins that highlight this regional bank's strength in the U.S.
include a win at Redwood's Credit Union a $1.9 billion credit union in California that shows 200 000 customers.
This win is exciting for 2 reasons.
We are replacing 39 NCR ATMs and 29 of the new 33 NCR SelfServ ATMs will include our SDM technology.
SDM is the only available solution that allows consumers to deposit both cash and checks at the same time in any orientation through a single slot.
SDM greatly reduces consumer transaction time while also reducing dependency on higher cost less convenient teller-based support.
We announced recently that BMO Harris Bank part of BMO Financial Group is also deploying NCR SelfServ ATMs with SDM technology to replace a significant portion of the ATM fleet acquired through their purchase of Marshall &amp; Ilsley Corporation.
We will also be providing field maintenance services on this new fleet which we are excited about given our focused efforts to provide a market-leading end-to-end solution for midsized U.S.
banks.
In fact we recently introduced Total ATM Services which is a new managed services bundle for midsized and community banks.
NCR Services will support an ATM network by delivering a comprehensive suite of services designed to continually monitor the ATM network using Predictive Services innovations proactively identify and address issues before outages occur and protect the ATM network from unwanted security threats.
Finally we continue to invest in our APTRA software line of converged banking solutions.
During the quarter we launched NCR APTRA Mobile Banking 3.0 a new platform that enables institutions to offer their customers banking services via downloadable apps mobile browser or SMS.
It is a truly robust platform that gives consumers the features and tools to conveniently manage their money while offering banks the ability to integrate mobile banking with traditional and online banking channels.
In the Retail Solutions segment formerly Retail and Hospitality revenue grew 7% over the prior year period driven primarily by results in North America BICMEA Japan Korea and South Asia Pacific.
Orders in the quarter were down 6% but are up 5% year-to-date largely due to difficult comparisons to the prior year period specifically with respect to European retailers.
Because orders were softer than expected in the third quarter we feel it is prudent at this point to adjust our full year revenue guidance for Retail solutions where we now expect revenues to be roughly flat with last year on a constant currency basis down from previous expectations of 2% to 4% growth.
Having said that orders have picked up recently and we expect year-end backlog to be up double digits versus last year positioning us for top line growth in the Retail Solutions segment in 2012.
We remain positioned at the forefront of advanced self-checkout and point-of-sale solutions as both customers and consumers continue their shift towards convenient and more advanced channels.
Our point-of-sale technologies secured multiple customer wins during the third quarter including the supermarket chain Warehouse Market Inc.
as well as the Johnny Rockets Group and its franchisee partners.
In Hospitality and Specialty Retail the former Radiant business revenues recognized in this abbreviated quarter with $36 million and operating income was $5 million.
These results reflect approximately 5 weeks of Q3 as we completed this acquisition at the end of August.
I'm pleased that our business momentum remains strong and I'm confident that our team will drive the revenue and cost synergies we outlined for you earlier.
NCR recently launched CPMobile a new mobile retail management solution that enables specialty retailers to engage more directly with consumers throughout the sales process while providing an enhanced level of customer service designed to drive increased revenue growth and competitive advantage.
In addition Radiant or as I will refer to them going forward HSR successfully implemented Quest technology in Queensland Australia's Metricon Stadium.
The Quest solution allows customers to use loaded tickets voucher cards bar tab account cards and more while managers are able to update point-of-sale terminals during events through comprehensive realtime recording capabilities.
We also announced a new agreement with the Seattle Seahawks Sounders FC and First and Goal to provide Qwest stadium and arena technology for CenturyLink field and CenturyLink field events centers Food and Beverage service operations.
So as our third quarter demonstrates we are making good progress towards our goals in each of our 3 core solutions verticals.
We want to continue to leverage our strong global market positions and our technology leadership to drive higher levels of sustained profitable revenue growth in these verticals for the long term.
An important initiative we are pursuing toward that end is our new global partner program.
The goal is simple to construct a best-in-class channel program by investing in partner enablement and capabilities as well as robust program development.
We believe this commitment to our channel partners will create a stronger indirect sales infrastructure that can compliment our direct sales force and help meet the expanding demand for self and assisted service solutions in the global small and medium-sized business market.
Looking now at our Services business we continue to demonstrate higher-than-expected year-over-year growth with Q3 revenues up 13% over 2010 and Q3 gross margins expanding by 280 basis points versus the prior year.
This performance and our growing attach rates reflect the strong value proposition NCR Services delivers to our customers worldwide productivity enhancements and competitive market share gains.
This is best demonstrated by our recent agreement with Agricultural Bank of China to provide hardware maintenance services for approximately 10 000 NCR ATMs.
This contract is not only our largest services win ever in China it's also one of the largest ATM services contract wins in the history of the Chinese banking industry.
We believe this contract reflects a major shift in China.
Historically banks in this market use local services partners to manage their ATM fleets but ATM functionality has now reached a level of complexity and criticality where financial institutions require their fleets to be actively managed and supported by a more experienced and capable technical services support organization.
Overall NCR's value-added managed services capability continues to win business on a global basis.
In the third quarter wins in North America included a large U.S.
telecom and one of Canada's largest retailers.
In Europe NCR won an extension of total premise services with one of the U.K.'s largest grocers and we also secured managed service wins with large banks in China India and the Middle East.
In Entertainment revenues grew 45% year-over-year and same-store sales growth was up 21% over Q3 of last year.
Third quarter revenue growth can be attributed to our ongoing active management of our kiosk footprint which is driving improved per-unit economics.
As we discussed on our second quarter call we're actively examining strategic alternatives for this business.
We are pleased with our progress in pursuing strategic options for our Entertainment business and we are currently engaged in productive discussions.
We will keep you informed as efforts progress.
John will provide you with more in-depth update on the performance of Entertainment business in a few minutes.
Within NCR we continued executing our cost-reduction plan during the third quarter and remain on track to hit for our full year target of eliminating $75 million to $100 million in annualized costs.
In addition we further advanced our 3-year $200 million to $300 million reduction plan and have made solid progress to date.
Our successful cost take-out as well as our robust top line performance resulted in third quarter NPOI of $113 million compared to $90 million last year up 26%.
Turning now to guidance.
Today we are raising our full year revenue and non-GAAP guidance to reflect both strong performance in our core verticals specifically Financial Services and the expected contribution from our new Hospitality and Specialty Retail segment.
We currently expect revenues in 2011 to increase in the range of 8% to 10% on a constant currency basis.
We expect NPOI to be a range of $410 million to $420 million for the year an increase of 23% to 26% compared to 2010.
The change to the 2011 range reflects the improved business environment I've described as well as the addition of our new business vertical offsetting higher-than-planned losses from our Entertainment business.
We expect non-GAAP earnings per share which exclude pension expense and special items to be in a range of $1.79 to $1.83 in 2011 an increase of 17% to 20% compared to 2010.
In addition we expect free cash flow to be in a range of $75 million to $100 million up from previous guidance of $50 million to $75 million.
Bob will detail our 2011 guidance further when he covers the quarterly financial performance.
As a reminder we typically provide initial guidance for the coming fiscal year on our fourth quarter call in early February.
And that will be the case again for 2012.
Obviously we will keep a close eye on economic developments in the weeks and months ahead.
But based on current business trends as well as the addition of our new vertical we are now expecting to provide a healthy 2012 outlook to you at that time.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to John Bruno who will talk about the Emerging Industries and discuss our Entertainment business in greater detail.
John? Thank you Bill and good afternoon everyone.
Bill updated you on the strong performance in our core lines of business so I'd like to give you an update and provide further insights into our progress deploying SelfServ solutions across our Entertainment and Emerging Industry segments.
Most of you are familiar with our value equation which articulates the way in which we view our core versus non-core businesses.
We view these emerging growth opportunities as part of our strategy to diversify our portfolio by identifying proximate adjacencies to our core.
By definition these non-core businesses are relatively small young growing businesses that tend to be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter and the third quarter 2011 was not in line with our expectation for these businesses in aggregate.
Bob will update full year guidance by line of business in his section but suffice it to say that while 2011 performance is trending behind our expectations and plan these remain growth businesses and we will be very focused in terms of resource allocation to drive value for our shareholders.
Looking first at Entertainment.
As Bill mentioned we continue to explore strategic alternatives relative to this business but these discussions are not distracting from our execution focus.
At the end of the third quarter we had approximately 10 000 kiosks deployed compared to about 7 000 at the end of last year's Q3.
And as we've said previously we continue to redeploy underperforming kiosks as we seek to grow transaction volume improve our per unit economics and design our kiosk footprint to meet our profitability goals.
Our work to optimize our DVD kiosk fleet is progressing.
Revenues grew 45% and importantly same-store sales grew 21% over last year's Q3.
We deployed 500 kiosks during the third quarter including 200 of the 1 600 kiosks we originally identified as underperforming units.
To date we have returned 800 of those 1 600 kiosks to market locations that we believe will drive performance in line with our goals.
Another key metric the Entertainment business was EBITDA break-even in the third quarter.
We continue to pursue other profit-enhancing initiatives including premium pricing for the new releases and cross-selling.
Testing of our premium prices is ongoing with a focus on consumer choice and expanding access to quality content.
Now turning to developments across our other emerging industries.
Emerging Industry revenues grew 1% in the quarter versus the prior year period while operating margins expanded by 300 basis points and operating income grew 20%.
This segment can be somewhat lumpy quarter-by-quarter.
So on a year-to-date basis revenues are up 9% and operating income is up $11 million or 28% versus the prior year period.
We continue to see good performance in our services-led Telecom and Technology or TNT line of business where NCR delivers deployment support consulting and managed services to over 40 global telecom and OEM companies.
We have a very strategic relationship with these customers as the preferred service partner helping them cost effectively build out their multi-vendor network infrastructure and bring reliable and scalable business services to the market faster.
This line of business also provides managed technology and support services to some of the world's largest companies.
We act as a single point of contact to manage the customer's business networks and provide IT support enabling them to reduce operating costs maximize availability of mission-critical business applications and focus more on their core business.
Our TNT business delivered order growth of 53% and gross margin expansion versus the prior year period with services growing at 10% versus last year.
We expect solid revenue growth as we continue to secure new customers and expand our offer portfolio.
The telecom carriers continue to focus on rolling out hosted services in IP service delivery and their need to build out wireless data network capability and availability as well as the surge in businesses looking to cloud and Saas-based applications.
These are all positive market dynamics and position NCR well for future success in this business.
In the third quarter we expanded our multi-vendor services capability achieving service-edge partner status for Ruben [ph] Network's Wireless LAN solutions while continuing our certifications in building relationship with leaders like Cisco Juniper and other partners.
We also expanded our presence in emerging markets and enhanced our ability to service the retail operations of our telecom customers throughout the introduction of a new self-service bill payment kiosk.
This new solution enables consumers in the Middle East and Africa to buy mobile SIM cards and pays bills quickly and easily at stores and other locations.
We are already working with several leading mobile carriers in the region on this initiative.
In the Travel segment NCR continues to transform the way passengers check in for flights through our Mobile Boarding Pass technology.
U.S.
Airways will be deploying technology across 14 airports in the U.S.
As a result passengers can now utilize the convenience of using their Smartphone or other mobile device to check in and board flights.
We are seeing a high rate of adoption of this technology as consumers look for ways to simplify the way the travel.
The fact is also evidenced by our recently announced partnership with Dubai airports who will be deploying 50 NCR Digital Sign Wayfinding kiosk touchscreen monitors aimed at effectively guiding travelers through Dubai International and Dubai World Central.
Our Digital Signage Wayfinding monitors will help travelers locate gates flight information retailers and concessions in an intuitive and easy-use manner.
We will also be providing support services for all of these monitors.
We are actively and successfully migrating our core value proposition and positioning ourselves as the leading provider of innovative technologies that provide benefits to both customers and consumers.
Changing transaction channels and customer preferences as well as emerging technologies are reshaping the ways companies and customers interact and conduct business.
We are positioned at the forefront of this transformative changes in a number of key emerging verticals that we believe possess strong growth prospects in the years to come.
And with that I'll hand it over to Bob.
Okay thanks John.
NCR's total revenue in the third quarter was $1.4 billion up 16% versus Q3 2010.
Third quarter revenues include a 5% benefit from foreign currency translation.
We reported GAAP income from continuing operations attributable to NCR of $16 million or $0.10 per diluted share.
This compares to GAAP income from continuing operations attributable to NCR of $78 million or $0.48 per diluted share in Q3 2010.
NCR's results from continuing operations include special items in both periods.
Income from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2011 included $62 million or $0.27 per diluted share after-tax of pension expense and $33 million or $0.16 per diluted share after-tax of acquisition-related cost.
Income from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2010 included $50 million or $0.20 per diluted share after-tax of pension expense $6 million or $0.02 per diluted share after-tax of incremental costs related to the relocation of the company's global headquarters and $39 million or $0.24 per diluted share of income tax benefit due to the release of a valuation reserve related to our Japanese subsidiary.
Excluding these items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.53 per share in Q3 2011 compared to non-GAAP earnings of $0.46 per diluted share in Q3 2010.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effects of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release that reconciles our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q3 2011 gross margin was 23.5% up 80 basis points from 22.7% in the prior year period.
The increase is a result of higher product sales favorable mix and the successful implementation of cost reduction initiatives driven by our continuous improvement program.
Our acquisition of Radiant also improved gross margins in Q3 and will be a catalyst in driving gross margin expansion in the future.
Operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items was 15.5% of revenue in Q3 2011 versus 15.3% in Q3 2010.
The increase was a result of an investment in sales resources and the inclusion of the Radiant business in the quarter.
Total company non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $113 million in the third quarter compared to $90 million in last year's Q3.
Other expense net was $4 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to other income net of $1 million in the prior year period.
Other expense in the third quarter of 2011 included interest expense of $3 million.
Income tax benefit was $1 million in the third quarter compared to a benefit of $45 million in Q3 2010.
The prior year period included $39 million of income tax benefit due to the release of a valuation reserve related to our Japanese subsidiary.
NCR expects its full year 2011 effective tax rate to be approximately 27%.
Turning to the balance sheet cash on hand was $341 million with total debt of approximately $1.1 billion at the end of the quarter.
Moving to the cash flow statement cash used in operating activities was $7 million in Q3 2011 compared to $48 million in the prior year period.
Cash used in operating activities in Q3 2011 was positively impacted by improvement in working capital period-over-period.
Net capital expenditures totaled $32 million in Q3 2011 compared to $69 million in the prior year period with the decrease primarily due to lower capital spend in the Entertainment business.
Discontinued operations resulted in $6 million of cash outflow in Q3 2011 compared to $6 million of cash inflow in Q3 2010 primarily due to a lower level of insurance recoveries relative to the prior-year period.
In Q3 2011 free cash flow used was $45 million which included $24 million of acquisition-related costs compared to free cash flow use of $111 million in Q3 2010.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plant and equipment and additions to capitalized software.
As Bill indicated earlier we expect free cash flow for full year 2011 to be in the range of $75 million to $100 million up from previous guidance of $50 million to $75 million.
Before turning it back over to Bill I'll update our revenue expectations on a constant currency basis for each line of business for the full year 2011.
In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow 7% and 9% up from previous guidance of 6% to 8%.
In Retail Solutions we expect revenues to be about even with the prior year down from the previous guidance of 2% to 4% growth.
In HSR we expect revenues to contribute approximately $135 million to NCR's top line this year.
For Entertainment we expect revenues to rise 60% to 70%.
And as a result of lower-than-expected growth we now estimate an NPOI loss of approximately $60 million this year including corporate allocations.
In Emerging Industries we expect revenues to be up approximately 5%.
In summary the strength of our core particularly Financial Services is more than offsetting any weakness in our smaller non-core businesses.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Bill for closing comments.
Thank you Bob.
The third quarter features strong operational and financial performance along with executing important strategic transactions for our future.
Our record order growth and historic backlog levels indicate the strong demand trends in our core markets.
Our Financial and Retail businesses are performing very well and the addition of a third core vertical industry provides a new platform for growth.
Not only in the Hospitality and Specialty retail sectors but across our businesses as we realize the revenue and cost synergy benefits from the Radiant acquisition.
In the meantime we are demonstrating strategic progress in key emerging markets like China with our major services win; and in Brazil through our alliance with Scopus.
As we execute on these initiatives it is increasingly clear that the best path for procuring sustainable profitable long-term growth in NCR is to focus on the significant opportunity in our core businesses.
At the same time we continue to see tremendous potential in several emerging industries.
As we gain more experience in these areas we are better able to make sharper resource allocation decisions and to pursue only those opportunities that are the most compelling and which represent the most logical extensions of our competencies and assets.
Our telecom and technology as well as travel and transportation verticals for example show attractive growth potential as solutions including our check-in kiosks and mobile boarding pass technology continued to see high levels of deployment and consumer engagement.
In summary our third quarter performance and recent strategic transactions affirm our expectations that we will finish 2011 on a strong note and enter 2012 very well positioned.
As we look out further NCR is gaining increasing strategic clarity around its core solutions offerings and our migration to a services-led software-enabled business model.
And we are also gaining confidence in the longer-term potential trajectory of the business.
We look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
And operator -- I'd like to thank all of you for joining us and the operator can now open up the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Julio Quinteros.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to come back to 2 quick things.
One if you can just walk us through the -- I guess I'd use the World Series Baseball analogy for now the inning that we're in in terms of the upgrade and the refresh cycle and if you could sort of divide the world into I guess Europe and the U.S.
just to give us a sense for how much further we have to go in terms of this current cycle if you want on the ATM side? Julio this is Bill Nuti I'll take that.
I want to repeat something I've said before on the call and I talked about quite often and that is that I think it's very difficult to talk about innings here because deposit has become a global industry and in particular in the U.S.
as well.
So I -- several years ago I think all of us in the industry described it potentially as a secular growth opportunity in terms of growing above the current market trends.
It's becoming part of the market.
And therefore I think you're going to see this continue for quite some time.
And it's not just an upgrade opportunity in the U.S.
now that's shifted to regional banks per se.
It's an upgrade opportunity in other countries like India and Brazil and certainly gaining traction in countries like China and already in Europe in terms of recycling.
So deposit automation as a segment has a very long way to go globally and now has become a very key application for banks to offer.
More specifically in the U.S.
I would say that most major banks are in the final throes of upgrading their systems.
However a large number of those banks or a large number of the ATMs deployed are probably now 4 years old and perhaps have deployed first-generation deposit automation technology.
I would suspect a lot of those banks starting in the next year or 2 will come back around and upgrade those ATMs to a third-generation deposit automation technology like our SDM.
So I think you're going to see an upgrade cycle begin in the larger banks like it did in '06.
Probably in the '13 time frame maybe as late as '14.
Those ATMs will be 8-ish years old.
And they will be far behind their competitors who are rolling out new-generation deposit automation which is much more consumer friendly.
And so I think what you have here is a situation where this market will continue for the long term and the global growth prospects of deposit automation remains significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just comment specifically and then try and differentiate the commentary we heard from your competitor Diebold in Europe earlier about some softness and weakness versus the strength that you guys cited in Europe? Well we had an excellent quarter in Europe in Financial Services.
Orders were up 17% for us and we had a very balanced growth across Europe for ATMs.
There wasn't one particular area I would point to in Europe.
Now remember we're really well positioned in Europe and are the largest provider of ATMs in Europe today in terms of market share.
We're #1.
And no question we've been benefited to some degree by competition perhaps paring back their participation in the market.
But I would also say that we have a demonstrable competitive advantage in that because we're so broad in Europe for example we have services infrastructure in each country and deep services infrastructure which is very difficult and frankly costly to replicate.
And therefore we can go pan-Europe with some banks that are pan-European.
We can go in-country for service delivery in a way that is difficult to replicate.
Our next question comes from Paul Coster.
Research Division</strong> I just wonder if you can talk a little bit about EMEA.
Obviously it's all front and center in terms of concerns at the moment.
It sounds like you're riding through things okay.
Can you give us a little bit of color is that true of all locations? Also Bill you did at least express the view that the 2012 outlook at the moment is looking okay.
Can you just give us a little bit of color around what it is that your underlying assumption is there in terms of sort of economic growth going into 2012? Sure.
Well on EMEA in particular Paul no question that there are some countries that are slower than others.
We all know who they are.
Italy Spain Greece in particular.
That being said we are continuing to sell ATMs and point-of-sale and other technologies in those countries.
But in aggregate Europe is holding their own quite well for NCR and we're riding it well extremely well in the ATMs space or the financial services space in particular.
And I think we've been doing a really good job from an execution standpoint there during some of the most difficult periods.
I'm hopeful that what's happened over the last 48 hours in Europe will hopefully take some of the bank's eyes off of their balance sheet and refocusing on customer delivery and their business.
And that will help us even further.
I don't know the answer to that and nor are we contemplating that in our perspective going forward.
I think the most important thing going in our favor right now is the fact that our backlog in Financial Services is up 40% year-on-year.
And our backlog company-wide is up 23%.
So that gives us a tremendous amount of visibility for at least the next 2 quarters into our business.
Research Division</strong> And then this may be a little bit unfair throwing at you throwing this information at you into your call but Coinstar has just reported and they've announced that they're raising their pricing on DVD rentals to $1.29.
I'm just wondering what your initial thoughts are in terms of your response to that kind of price action.
Well it's John Bruno.
That's something that both Coinstar and NCR have both been selectively doing in target markets.
There's a number of reasons and we've tested price elasticity as it relates to the value offer in that space.
So that's not new news.
We all look at consumer reaction and the price of the offer at all of those.
So we are again aware of where they're trialing and of course not aware of their global deployment plans but we're doing a very similar analysis.
Hey Paul just a couple more -- I know Peter has a few more comments on Europe and some more specificity with regard to some of those key countries we talked about in terms of revenue growth in the quarter.
So Peter? Paul this is Peter Leav I just wanted to add some specifically around several key countries in Europe as it relates to the quarter.
Our revenue was up 10% in Italy 13% in France 13% in Germany.
So it was a good quarter-over-quarter story from last year and I just wanted to make sure I gave you some detail.
Our next question comes from Gil Luria.
This is John for Gil.
I just wanted to ask about your big win in Brazil with Bradesco.
Can you talk about how you might be able to build on that and if you can possibly expand the business there to other banks? I think I heard your question it was -- but you we're asking about Scopus or Bradesco and can we...
How can we build how do we plan on building upon that? This Is John Bruno.
That relationship is strategic on any number of fronts.
Most importantly it helps us dramatically with investing in local what we call new product introduction engineers on the ground in combination with our own development plants.
So we are learning a lot about the custom nature of ATM manufacturing.
We have a unique space plan in which we build our own safes in-country and we have now capabilities given the scale that that relationship brings to us to allow us to be very competitive in the marketplace and very innovative in the marketplace.
So previously we wouldn't have had the luxury or the ability to make the investments that this relationship does so we intend to leverage it heavily in the financial services space.
And more importantly as Bill alluded to in his prepared remarks we're very excited about our partnership with Scopus and their knowledge of the local market because we believe the market represents opportunities for us in our other core businesses of specialty retail hospitality and our core retail market.
So the leverage of our technological expertise our manufacturing and design and engineering expertise with their local go-to market expertise are all leverage points outside of Financial Services in addition to what we should be able to do given the investments that these orders bring to us within Financial Services.
Our next question comes from Michael Saloio.
LLC</strong> Could you give us a sense of what the largest demand drivers were in the North American ATM business? Specifically the smaller mid-tier and regional banks.
I'm trying to understand if it was ADA was it PCI? Or is this really just kind of loosening of the purse strings and these banks finally moving towards deposit automation? It's the latter Michael.
It's just regional banks moving more aggressively towards deposit automation.
ADA is a small driver.
I would say that one thing ADA does for us is if a bank has to go in for example and touch -- yes meaning upgrade it for any reason they look at doing other things while they're doing that.
But the real key driver for us in nationals -- we always said 300% growth in the midsized bank segment in orders what we had well over 100% growth in revenues.
Almost all of it stems from the SDM technology we offer in the market today and their move towards deposit automation.
I'd add only one other comment and as a consumer you'll see it.
The smaller and the mid-tier banks need to remain competitive with the top 10 banks with the types of technology.
And regardless of whether it's the mid-tier or the top tier there isn't a bank branch or I should say a banking company retail company that isn't considering discussing or implementing branch transformation.
There isn't a conversation that we're having that they're trying to change the consumer experience for their consumers as they walk into these branches.
So just the physical nature of changing -- I mean changing the way bank branches operate is also driving discussions on our upgrade cycles and the use of net new technologies.
Our next question comes from Matt Summerville.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Bill first on retail can you talk a little bit more about the incoming order trends you've seen the last few months? It sounded like they dipped down but have come back up as of late.
Maybe put a little more color around that and I guess how comfortable you are that there is inflection there versus something temporary.
And then did -- on a pro forma basis if you will did Radiant see that same sort of trend in their incoming order rates that you experience? First on retail for us in that we had a really difficult compare year-on-year in orders and revenue.
We had a super Q3 last year in retail in particular with European retailers.
So that made it more difficult for us.
I would say that the issue we faced in retail and we faced all year were the headwinds largely from consumables not hardware software or self checkout.
Our consumable paper business has been a drag on our retail business for the most part.
A significant drag in terms of top line and bottom line.
So that's masking what has been a pretty good performance in Retail overall on the year.
We continue to see relatively good trends in Retail.
I'm encouraged that we could end the year around double-digit backlog for retail going into 2012 strong on that front.
So I feel pretty good about the retail space right now.
And if things improve economically in particular I'll feel even better.
And lastly I'd say on that point we are aggressively pursuing a number of internal strategies to drive growth in that business.
And if we're half as good as I think we are we should have a significantly better '12 in that space.
On the Radiant side they had a terrific Q3 a terrific close.
Their business is going well.
I mean in fact I would tell you that anecdotally their funnel for their business is up fourfold from what it typically is since we've acquired them which is giving us all a little bit of excitement if you will around the potential of this acquisition in terms of revenue synergies.
Now that has to play out.
But they did very well at the end of Q3 and they continue to do well.
Research Division</strong> And then just one follow-up if I may.
Bill can you talk a little bit about in the ATM business what you're seeing from -- you talked about sort of demand by region maybe more what you're seeing from a pricing standpoint kind of delineating between emerging markets and then developed.
And then just Bob if you can comment on the moving pieces associated with why pension expense is moving up and if you have any thoughts on '12 there.
In terms of pricing the environment is about where it's been for many years for us and the developed market's pricing is stable.
And the emerging market it's more competitive or aggressive.
I've seen no demonstrable change in that behavior for the long term.
Now because of our global position we have optionality with respect to what happens in some of these other markets and I think we're better positioned.
I think our cost structure as well is also improving in terms of our ATM cost structure as a result of SDM which gives us a little more leverage.
I mean our margins were up 80 basis points year-on-year on top of being up 90 basis points year-on-year last year in Q3.
So pretty tough compare to grow margins like that.
And with Radiant now Matt I mean I'm feeling much better about margin growth potential in the coming 12 to 18 months.
Bob pension expense? Yes.
In terms of pension expense Matt 2 main drivers.
One is FX and the other is just in Q3 we looked at our actuarial estimates and in some of the countries inflation was running higher.
But probably the biggest driver was just the length of -- the remaining length of time that we can allocate the expense over was shorter when we looked at it.
So we basically had to allocate some of that expense over a shorter period of time.
We'll have a better idea of our 2012 pension expense once the numbers are final in Q4 and we use those updated assumptions.
And so we'll give guidance as part of our normal process.
Our next question comes from Ian Zaffino.
This is Todd on for Ian.
Can you -- in the retail business it seems like organic revenue rose for about 3% for the quarter.
Can you kind of break out for us the contribution between assisted checkout and self-checkout? Revenue growth in the quarter for retail was up about 7.
Excluding FX.
I'm sorry? Exceeding foreign exchange? Oh I'm sorry I missed your point.
Yes self-checkout was up in the quarter in the single digits and point-of-sale I think was equally up as well in the same range as single digits low single digits in that area.
Difficult compares I would tell you particularly on the self-checkout side.
We had a tremendous self-checkout quarter in Q3 of last year.
So is it safe to imply that kind of like the shares remain constant versus last year? No.
I'd say -- you mean market share? Well like aisle share or share between self-checkout and assisted checkout? Yes roughly the same as it was a year ago.
And then external share we continue to perform well in those areas.
Okay.
And then on the Entertainment business and the DVDs the comp seem to be -- the same-store sales seems to be a little bit lower than I would have expected just with a having a little bit lower unit growth this quarter than in the past.
Can you kind of speak to why it accounts for 21% rather versus like a 30% last quarter? Yes I think there were 2 things that -- 2 factors that drove that.
One is we continue to shift lower performing machines to higher performing locations.
And so we're taking out of service in the quarter n number of machines.
And therefore they're not revenue generating when you do that.
And in some cases when you shift them it takes 30 days to get them back up and running.
So it's a lengthy period of time to have an asset not generating revenue.
But we're going to continue to do that because ultimately the unit economics improved dramatically when we do that right.
Secondly the title flow in the quarter was weak.
New title flow in the quarter was relatively weak for us.
That gets better in Q4 and I'm encouraged by the number of new titles coming to fruition in Q4 and the fact that the industry is beginning to get pricing right.
Our final question comes from Kartik Mehta.
Bill I just wanted a little bit of a clarification on the statement you made in your Financial Service in the press release.
As you indicated the margins look really strong and I think you attributed it to lower service delivery costs at least in the press release and I'm wondering if you could just expand on that maybe on that particular statement? Yes the real driver of our Financial Services' margins is services and our margin expansion in services.
It's not the solution side of that business.
So we've been very pleased with productivity gains in Financial Services and Services.
Obviously new offers coming to market like Managed Services offers Total Premise and Total Managed Services for regional banks offer us greater margin potential than we do break/fix.
And we've done a good job in the latest quarter in just managing our fixed cost in that business and using continuous improvement to just make ourselves more efficient.
So we're on that quest constantly Kartik but it was really the services' gross margin expansion that drove Financial Services' success in margin expansion in Q3.
And I know it hasn't been long that obviously Radiant has been integrated in the NCR as getting integrated but I know you've studied the business for a while.
I'm wondering is it possible for you to take what you're learning in Radiant and apply it to your retail business so that the margins in that retail business can improve? Absolutely 100%.
We're learning a ton on how to improve margins generally.
Let me give you a quick example.
The Software-as-a-Service business and Radiant they're a subscription-based service.
Call it a $50 million-ish dollar a year business.
it's an 80-plus point margin business.
We can leverage that team that capability those applications in our retail business.
And by the way software organically is growing very well.
It's not to be I think missed in this latest quarter.
NCR proper is doing a brilliant job of building a fairly sizable software business in this company.
Outside of that we can take what Radiant does and apply it not just to retail Kartik but across all verticals.
We're also learning from them in terms of everything in terms of how they manufacture product their supply chain.
And while I think in those particular areas 8x out of 10x we have an advantage because of scale or maturity.
There are a few areas where we can implement some of the things that they bring to our company to make significant impacts on our own margin structure.
So we feel very good about if you will their ability to export learnings to us.
John? Yes there's 2 things I'd add Kartik.
It's really the distribution and the ongoing management maintenance.
We've studied extensively how well they've built their site management practice how they do software distribution how the upsell and how they maintain and monitor that environment.
We have a series of applications that we've had in market for quite some time that are very good applications market-leading ones such as our Advanced Marketing Solution or even our Digital Signage and Coupon-to-Card loyalty.
And we are working hard to adapt their practices and functions as Bill said to leverage our scale to take advantage of the very innovative and leading model they have to take those parts of our business into the market because the go to market is very different for those SaaS-based applications that is selling a piece of software bundled with hardware.
And Bill I think you might have answered this question so I apologize but I might have just missed it.
I want to get your thoughts on ATM growth in the U.S.
both from a hardware and service standpoint.
Obviously the market's doing well and I wanted to get your perspective on how well you think the market's growing.
Well we grew 106% in Financial Services in North America.
I mean -- and by the way that's on a big number.
But I guess I'm -- I apologize Bill.
I meant from a revenue point standpoint this quarter versus a year ago rather than orders.
I apologize.
That's okay no worries.
So I couldn't be more pleased with North America's progress on revenue growth.
They have over exceeded my expectations by a wide margin through excellent execution and frankly innovation and competitive advantage vis-à-vis product the SDM technology.
Financial in North America revenue was up 42% year-on-year.
You're talking about a big number on top of a big number.
So we felt very good about their performance.
And frankly the growth in large banks and regional banks was pretty darn good.
We were over 100% growth in revenue in the regional banks and just under 20% in large banks.
So very good balanced performance and frankly great backlog.
The backlog for our North American business is up 96% year-on-year.
And then just one last question Bill.
You talked a little bit about the DVD business and you engaged in some productive discussions I think you've said.
As you've gone down this path does it seem like this is a business that you will end up selling? Or is it a business that you could see yourself partnering with somebody and keeping a portion of it? I know you've liked the characteristics of this business but I want to get your thoughts as you've gone through these discussions.
Yes sure.
All of the above on that.
We have -- we're lucky to have exceptional optionality today.
We are in productive discussions relative to this business.
But we also have a good -- this business grew 45% year-on-year.
Same-store sales growth up 21%.
You just heard about the price increases in this industry across the board that could be extremely helpful for NCR Entertainment.
Ultimately as well if this business just stayed on current course and speed it would be a big business next year for us.
But that being said let me be very clear.
We have a lot of work to do on our core businesses.
We're excited about what we have going on in Financial Retail and Hospitality.
I would like to focus the energies of this company in exploiting the opportunities there particularly on our software business and our services business.
So we'll continue with the process we have in place and see where it lands.
Well thank you very much for all of you for joining the call.
We appreciate your time.
We will talk to you all in probably February.
Take care.
That concludes today's conference.
Thanks for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections to this you may disconnect at any time.
And now I would like to introduce your host for today's conference call Gavin Bell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
Thanks Brad.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us for our Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will lead our conference call this afternoon.
After Bill's opening remarks Peter Dorsman Executive Vice President of our Industry Solutions Group and Global Operations will update you on progress with respect to certain key initiatives.
Bob Fishman NCR's Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on NCR's total company financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor page of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on NCR's website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of February 6 2012 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this conference call whether as a result of new information or future results.
I'll now turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Gavin.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us.
2011 was a highly successful year for NCR featuring record revenue gross margin and NPOI and $151 million or more than 400% year-over-year increase in free cash flow.
We finished the year well ahead of expectations as full year revenues grew 13% and nonpension operating income or NPOI totaled $434 million an increase of 28% versus 2010.
Our operating margins continue to improve as evidenced by full year NPOI margin of 9.1% excluding the Entertainment business an increase of 110 basis points compared to 2010 and the highest since the 2007 Teradata spinoff.
We ended the year with order growth up 18% versus last year.
It is important to note that this growth does not include Hospitality and Specialty Retail or HSR a segment that we expect to be a key growth driver in 2012 and beyond.
Backlog at the end of the year was over $1 billion up 14% versus the prior year period.
We've now delivered 9 consecutive quarters of year-on-year backlog growth and we entered 2012 with our highest backlog for the first quarter in our history.
Our financial results and strong pipeline demonstrates that our business strategy to deliver profitable revenue growth gross margin expansion and an improved consumer experience is delivering tangible returns.
Our discipline in the areas of strategy execution investment and innovation continuous improvement and a focus on delivering great service are all the reasons why 2011 was a successful year and why we entered 2012 with confidence.
In terms of gross margin expansion we are continuing to make progress in building our capabilities in 2 critical areas software and services.
Software revenues including our rapidly growing software-as-a-service business grew 52% in Q4 versus the prior quarter and 31% in full year 2011.
And we expect in 2012 to drive total software revenues to well over $500 million.
Looking at our services business we continued our momentum in Q4 and delivered full year revenue growth of 12% and gross margin expansion of 230 basis points versus the prior year on a non-GAAP basis.
In addition services file value the equivalent of backlog was up 8% on both a reported and FX neutral basis versus the prior year period positioning us for a very solid 2012.
It's important to put this in perspective.
NCR services generates a recurring revenue stream and drives about half of total company revenue and file value is a record $1.77 billion with an improving margin profile.
The combination of services file value and solutions backlog of $1 billion is an important metric as we enter 2012.
Bear in mind that hospitality and consumables are not represented in these backlog numbers.
Frankly speaking our focus on changing our business model to being software- and services-led is working.
Assuming we continue to execute which we have every intention to do it will have lasting implications on NCR's growth and margin profile as well as the value we deliver to our customers for many years to come.
Simply put the reinvention of NCR is on an excellent path.
Because of these changes we have made NCR is an increasingly critical business partner to our customers worldwide.
The hardware and software innovations we are bringing to market deliver proven value in the form of productivity gains and cost savings while simultaneously improving and contemporizing the consumer experience.
Our growth momentum is being driven by our continued strong performance in our core industries as we look to capitalize on the strong demand trends in our financial retail and hospitality verticals and on the significant opportunity we have in our emerging industries Travel and Telecom and Technology.
Both of the latter 2 emerging industries have now proven to be potentially large and substantial market opportunities.
Our Financial Services business delivered a strong 2011 compared to 2010 as full year revenues grew 13% and operating income rose 25% indicating margin expansion of 90 basis points.
And global orders grew by 24% year-on-year positioning us with a strong backlog entering 2012.
We built upon our global leadership in 2011 via market share gains in both developed and emerging markets.
Share gains were driven by our ability to deliver unmatched innovation which is especially important given the emphasis banks place on customer acquisition and service in today's challenging competitive and economic environment.
Solutions such as our Scalable Deposit Module or SDM and our APTRA suite of software solutions differentiated NCR in the marketplace and are resulting in significant expansion of our installed base.
We also formed a valuable alliance with Scopus Tecnologia in Brazil allowing us to leverage their local market expertise to help accelerate growth in the world's fourth largest ATM market.
In retail solutions NCR continues to be a leader in point-of-sale self-checkout and converged channel software solutions that integrate online social mobile and store-based channels.
As consumers and businesses continue to shift towards self-service channels NCR's self-checkout converged channel software mobile and point-of-sale solutions remain well positioned to provide significant benefits to retailers.
2011 full year revenues rose 3% while operating income increased 5% as we face tough year-on-year compares.
Having said that we finished 2011 with strong Q4 order growth of 11% over the prior quarter.
And we expect solid revenue growth in this business in 2012.
In addition we expect this to be a year of substantial strategic progress as we are well positioned to enter new geographies expand into the SMB segment and grow our software portfolio.
HSR had a strong close to the year with our integration plan on track.
For our first full quarter of financial consolidation the business generated $105 million in revenue improved gross margins and contributed NPOI of $17 million.
Looking back the Radiant acquisition has met or exceeded our expectations to date.
The acquisition presented excellent cost and revenue synergies and also served to accelerate our migration toward a hardware-enabled software-driven business model in the coming years.
Also combining NCR's leadership with a strong team from Radiant has proven to be successful.
We're winning new business retaining great talent and serving our customers better than anticipated when we began the integration process 5 months ago.
We remain on schedule to secure annualized pretax cost synergies in the $40 million to $50 million range over the next 3 years.
I have asked Peter Dorsman who runs our Industry Solutions Group and global ops to recap the performance of our industries in more detail in a few moments.
I'll focus the remainder of my opening remarks on our financial results strategic direction and outlook entering 2012.
Q4 revenues were $1.6 billion up 17% compared to last year.
Q4 gross margin grew 270 basis points year-on-year to 25.2%.
Q4 NPOI was $159 million up 39% compared to $114 million in Q4 of 2010 while non-GAAP EPS was $0.65 compared to $0.56 in the prior-year period.
For the full year we generated consolidated revenue growth of 13% while NPOI totaled $434 million versus $340 million in 2010.
Non-GAAP EPS for the year was $1.92 compared to $1.56 for full year 2010 up 23% year-on-year.
Our NPOI and EPS results for the year were due in large part to our consolidated revenue growth but also reflect the impact of our ongoing global continuous improvement initiative which resulted in the successful elimination of more than $100 million in annualized costs.
The efforts to optimize our cost structure will continue in 2012 as we remain on a 3-year path to achieving our overall reduction of $200 million to $300 million in annualized costs.
Our strategic plan in 2012 will continue to emphasize growing our core industries worldwide with an emphasis on exploiting our higher-margin software solutions and services offers.
Beyond our focus on improving revenue mix we will continue to pursue margin improvement via continuous improvement and global services defect elimination.
As we sharpen our core vertical focus we are narrowing our portfolio of emerging verticals zeroing in on those that offer the highest value creation and are most consistent with our business strategy and operating model.
This determination is the driving force behind the divestiture of our healthcare software solutions to QuadraMed in the fourth quarter and our just announced agreement with Redbox to sell the assets of our Entertainment line of business.
With the Entertainment transaction in addition to the asset purchase price of up to $100 million we secured a 5-year manufacturing and services agreement that provides them the opportunity to procure hardware software and services for their various automated retail solutions with the commitment of $25 million in margin.
This deal provides us with the ability to establish an important and potentially significant new customer relationship for NCR services with one of the world's largest automated retailers.
Let's now discuss our outlook for 2012.
Our core financial Retail and Hospitality markets are demonstrating solid demand trends in most regions and we entered the year with a strong backlog position.
As I mentioned we are operating with an intense focus on growing our core industries with supporting contributions expected to be made by our services and emerging market segments.
We expect revenues in 2012 to increase in the range of 7% to 9% on a constant currency basis excluding Entertainment in 2012.
We expect nonpension operating income or NPOI to be in the range of $560 million to $575 million for the year an increase of 29% to 32% from 2011.
We expect non-GAAP earnings per share excluding pension expense to be in the range of $2.36 to $2.43 in 2012 an increase of 23% to 27%.
And finally following this past year's strong cash flow performance we expect to generate free cash flow in the range of $100 million to $150 million in 2012 which includes increased cash funding requirements for our U.S.
and international pension plans.
I'll now turn the call over to Peter who will discuss our performance by line of business.
Peter? Thanks Bill.
And thank you to everyone who has joined us.
Looking first at Financial Services we generated 16% revenue growth in Q4 driven by continued strong and balanced performances across most key theaters including North America BICMEA and CLA.
Following a 60% increase in Q3 order growth remains healthy and was up 2% year-over-year during the fourth quarter and 24% for the full year which resulted in backlog growth of 21%.
A key component of our performance was the midsize and regional U.S.
banks which continue to ramp up spending in an effort to narrow the competitive gap with large financial institutions.
Regional bank orders and revenue more than doubled in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year period.
Our backlog is a result of our ability to deliver highly innovative solutions to our financial customers that differentiate their offering from competitors.
One of these solutions is our single deposit module ATM.
Recently TruWest Credit Union which serves 60 000 members in Phoenix Arizona and Austin Texas agreed to replace its fleet of non-NCR ATMs with NCR SelfServ 32 34 and 38 models complete with our SDM technology.
SDM is also being adopted by the Peoples Bank of Alabama which is supplying NCR SelfServ ATMs which will result in productivity gains and an improved transaction experience for its customers.
Our innovations extend beyond ATM hardware.
Our recent partnership with PayPal and S1 Corporation will enable realtime person-to-person payments from bank ATMs to almost anyone with a mobile phone or e-mail address.
Consumers will be able to transfer money to another person through our bank ATM simply by entering the amount of money to be sent and the recipient's e-mail address or mobile phone number.
The service will initially be available in the U.S.
with the ability to send money to people in more than 60 countries around the world.
In our Retail Solutions segment Q4 revenue fell 2% compared to last year primarily due to decline in the Europe theater.
Orders in the quarter were up 11% and our year-end backlog is up 5% compared to last year which as Bill said bodes well for growth in the segment in 2012.
Similar to Financial Services retail consumer transaction preferences are evolving with an increasing focus being placed on convenience and convergence.
This is good news for NCR as our comprehensive suite of self-checkout and point-of-sale solutions allow businesses to meet consumer transaction demands while also securing productivity gains through channel convergence and personalized marketing offers and promotions.
We continue to see signs that indicate an upcoming retail upgrade cycle and we are well positioned to capitalize on our emerging growth business opportunities.
Our leadership in the retail market was validated by NCR receiving its highest ranking to date on the retail information system leaderboard.
NCR was named in the top 10 across 24 categories including second among large vendor customer satisfaction and third in total cost of operation by tier 1 and midsized retailers.
We consistently look to better serve our customers and the risk metrics demonstrate the success we are having.
Recent customer wins in retail include Tully's Coffee which has selected the NCR RealPOS 70XRT point-of-sale solution as part of its initiative to improve the check-out experience for customers and gain greater business insights into its store operations.
Our services business will be providing depot repair services for Tully's as well.
In our Hospitality and Specialty Retail segment Q4 revenues totaled $105 million while operating income was $17 million resulting in a 16.2% operating margin.
As Bill mentioned our Hospitality business possesses  strong growth potential and will allow NCR to continue changing its mix of revenue to higher-margin software solutions.
During Q4 we secured a number of wins in the restaurant and theater categories.
Einstein Noah Restaurant Group will be implementing the NCR Aloha enterprise solution with each of its restaurants while Kum &amp; Go L.C.
will be implementing Hospitality's c-store technology within each of its 400-plus stores.
These customers recognize we are a leader in providing value driven solutions that enable faster service improved order fulfillment and offer centralized management of key business operations.
We recently launched Reel Time a new dashboard and customer reporting solution.
It gives theater operators a realtime view of current and historical data for ticket and concession sales attendance and feature gross and total revenue.
In addition we introduced Usherman a new application that increases a theater's speed of service by enabling ushers to scan and retrieve ticket information while enhancing the guest experience.
During Q4 our services business successfully grew margins and increased attach rates.
Customer satisfaction continues to rise and innovations such as our Predictive Services capabilities are further penetrating the market.
During Q4 we formed a partnership with Foresight Technologies to offer a range of independent data center design consultancy services across the Middle East and Africa.
This is a high-growth area for NCR and through this partnership we will extend our reach with a broad offering of services.
Two emerging verticals that offer growth opportunities are Telecom and Technology and Travel.
Our hardware-enabled software-driven approach supported by a best-in-class services organization is enabling us to continue to win new customers.
In Telecom and Technology we recently achieved Data Center Unified Computing Authorized Technology Provider status from Cisco.
This designation recognizes NCR as having fulfilled the training and program prerequisites required to sell deploy and support the Cisco Unified Computing System.
This distinction is important as NCR will be able to help meet significant market demand for cloud computing services for telecom carriers and enterprises in the high-growth MEA theater.
In Travel consumers are increasingly adopting mobile and self-service channels to manage their travel journey.
We secured significant wins in the MEA region including the national carrier of the Kingdom of Bahrain and Nasair the first low-fare airline in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Both chose NCR to design build and support their full-service mobile websites.
In addition the Transportation Security Administration will be piloting our credential authentication technology that can digitally read and analyze data and embedded security features on passenger IDs and boarding passes to identify fraudulent credentials.
In summary we continue to take market share in our core financial and retail verticals which as Bill mentioned will be a primary area of strategic focus in 2012.
Simultaneously self-service adoption continues in our emerging verticals.
I'd like to turn the call over to Bob now who will review this quarter financial results.
Thanks Pete.
NCR's total revenue in the fourth quarter was $1.64 billion up 17% versus Q4 of 2010 on both an actual and constant currency basis.
We reported GAAP loss from continuing operations of $13 million or $0.08 per diluted share.
This compares to GAAP income from continuing operations of $33 million or $0.20 per diluted share in Q4 of 2010.
NCR's results from continuing operations includes special items in both periods.
Income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2011 included $56 million or $0.23 per share of pension expense $98 million or $0.43 per share of an impairment charge related to the Entertainment line of business $5 million or $0.02 per share of acquisition-related transaction costs $1 million or $0.01 per share of acquisition-related severance costs and $9 million or $0.04 per share of acquisition-related amortization of intangible assets.
Income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2010 included $52 million or $0.27 per share of pension expense a $14 million or $0.06 per share impairment charge related to an investment and an $8 million or $0.03 per share litigation charge.
Excluding these items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.65 per share in Q4 2011 versus earnings of $0.56 per diluted share in Q4 2010.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effect of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release that reconciles our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q4 2011 gross margin was 25.2% up 270 basis points from 22.5% in the prior year period resulting from higher product and services sales favorable customer and product mix including significantly more software and the successful implementation of cost-reduction initiatives driven by our continuous improvement program.
And operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were approximately in line with our historic expense revenue metric at 15.5% of revenue as a direct result of our sharp focus on optimizing our cost structure while continuing to invest in sales and R&amp;D.
Non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $159 million in the fourth quarter compared to $114 million in last year's Q4.
Other expense was $16 million in Q4 2011 which included $9 million related to interest expense.
Other expense of $14 million in the prior year period included a $14 million impairment charge related to an equity investment.
Income tax benefit was $10 million in the fourth quarter compared to income tax expense of $8 million in Q4 2010.
Excluding the effect of pension and nonrecurring items the fourth quarter 2011 effective tax rate was 29% compared to 22% in Q4 2010.
We ended the year with a 26% effective tax rate slightly better than our full year forecast of 27%.
NCR's full year 2012 effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 27%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Cash on hand at 12/31 2011 was $398 million with long-term debt of $852 million at the end of the quarter down from approximately $1.1 billion at the end of the third quarter.
Moving to the cash flow statement.
NCR generated $270 million of cash from operating activities in Q4 2011 versus $182 million in the prior year period.
Cash from operating activities in Q4 2011 was positively impacted by changes in working capital primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable and inventory.
Net capital expenditures totaled $35 million in Q4 2011 compared to $53 million in the prior year period due to a decrease in CapEx spending in the Entertainment business.
Discontinued operations resulted in $6 million of cash outflow in Q4 2011 compared to $14 million of cash inflow in Q4 2010 due to insurance recoveries in the prior year period.
NCR generated free cash flow of $229 million in Q4 2011 compared to free cash flow of $143 million in Q4 2010.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plant and equipment and additions to capitalized software.
We continue to deliver good performance with our working capital.
As we mentioned on the Q3 earnings call timing was an issue in the third quarter and we were very pleased with our execution on Q4 cash flow.
For the full year 2011 NCR generated $375 million of cash from operating activities and $188 million of free cash flow compared to free cash flow of $37 million in 2010.
Net capital expenditures of $163 million in 2011 were down from $226 million in 2010 primarily due to lower investments in the Entertainment business.
We expect free cash flow for full year 2012 to be in the range of $100 million to $150 million which includes a $90 million increase in pension cash funding contributions versus 2011.
Total CapEx for the company will be about $165 million and depreciation and amortization will also be approximately $165 million.
Cash taxes are expected to be approximately $65 million in 2012.
Cash funding requirements for the Fox River environmental matter are expected to be a $40 million cash outflow in 2012.
And finally we'd expect working capital to be higher as revenues are expected to grow in 2012.
I'd like to provide an update on pension.
As planned we ended the year with 80% fixed income in the U.S.
plan and expect to be 100% fixed income in the U.S.
plan by the end of 2012.
Effective January 1 2012 for any plan where less than 10% of its participant are active workers we will use the average remaining life expectancy to determine the amortization period of prior service cost and actuarial gains and losses instead of expected future years of service.
This change is being made in accordance with U.S.
GAAP and will be enacted on a plan-by-plan basis.
For those plans where less than 10% of those participants are active workers the amortization period will be lengthened resulting in lower pension expenses over the next 7 to 10 years which is reflected in the GAAP guidance we have provided for 2012.
Pension expense is expected to be $165 million in 2012 a $57 million decline from $222 million in 2011.
Although return on assets was approximately 10% in both the U.S.
plan and the international portfolio the underfunded position moved against us by approximately $350 million primarily due to a 125-basis-point drop in the U.S.
discount rate.
Cash outflow expectations for pension funding over the next 2 years have been updated.
The 2011 funding was $125 million in line with our forecast.
For 2012 the funding is expected to be $250 million slightly higher than the previous estimate of $185 million which reflects the additional contributions required as our global funding gap has widened.
Please refer to the chart on our website entitled NCR Pension Update for the updated estimates.
I'd like to conclude by providing our full year 2012 revenue growth expectations including services and on a constant currency basis for each line of business.
In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow 5% to 7%.
In Retail we expect revenues to increase 2% to 4%.
In our Emerging Industries we expect revenues to be up 7% to 12%.
In Hospitality we expect full year revenues to be in the range of $435 million to $445 million.
The Entertainment business is included in 2011 results but excluded from 2012 guidance.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Bill for closing comments.
Thanks Bob and Peter.
In summary 2011 was a breakthrough year for NCR as we delivered double-digit profitable revenue growth significant gross margin expansion and improved consumer loyalty.
In addition we continue to reshape the business model for our future with significant growth in software and services becoming a large software company inside of what was once known as a hardware-only company.
Moreover we streamlined our strategic focus through the acquisition of Radiant our alliance with Scopus Technology (sic) [Tecnologia] in Brazil and the disposition of our healthcare assets and our just-announced agreement to dispose the assets of our Entertainment line of business.
In 2012 we will continue to focus on profitable growth and favorable mix shift in our core industries expansion of our Emerging Industries continuous improvement execution and creating competitive differentiation through world-class service delivery and innovation.
Within the business we also have an underlying set of strategic imperatives that align with our financial objectives for 2012 and beyond.
First is to deliver on the promise of disruptive innovation in a manner that dramatically increases the value we deliver to our customers while dramatically lowering the underlying cost structure of our solutions.
Second is to emphasize the migration of our revenue mix to higher-margin software and services revenues.
And third is to increasingly enable our sales force around the consultative selling model that better leverages the innovation we're bringing to market.
Delivering value to our customers and innovation remains top priorities for all of NCR.
We enabled 300 million customer transactions globally each day which equates to 110 billion transactions each year.
NCR is becoming the backbone behind how consumers are connecting interacting and transacting with business.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
In addition to Bob and Peter I've asked John Bruno to join us for the Q&amp;A portion of this call.
Let's open that up now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Julio Quinteros of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's Roman Leal here for Julio.
Few questions first of all can you remind us what the time line was for -- I believe your gross margin target of about 10% given all the moving parts and the exiting of Entertainment business how do you think about that? Can you reach that a little bit quicker? Would be very helpful.
Yes.
I think you're talking about NPOI margin of 10%.
We gave you guidance that that was our goal within the 3-year period last year so 2013.
I think we have an ample opportunity to move that up into 2012.
I'd be disappointed in 2012 if one or 2 quarters we didn't hit that number and be well on track in 2013.
So we'll meet or exceed our commitment probably by 6 to 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And are you guys ready to kind of walk us through what do you think the share of services revenue can get to from the roughly 50% currently? I think share of service right now is up to 60% you're right.
The optimal for us to model is software and the services being about 80% of the business and solution being hardware being about 20%.
I -- look at this juncture we're growing services more quickly than we anticipated.
As we've said our file value is up 8% both on a reported and FX neutral basis year-on-year.
That's a big number for us.
We're going to try to do that again this year.
I think we’re at a reasonably good mix on services.
The key for us is software growth.
We're growing software faster than we thought as well and I anticipate that we will grow software again more quickly than we anticipate this year.
And by the end of next year that software services number will be 80% the rest of the company 20%.
So we'll be where we want to be by the end of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the retail side what are some of the signals that make you bullish on an upcoming retail upgrade cycle? I mean is this mostly in the U.S? Mostly self-service? Or is it more broad based than that? 11% order growth in Q4 is the first signal.
So we had a good quarter in terms of order growth in Q4 on Retail.
So we're coming out of the blocks with a reasonably good backlog position in Retail in Q1.
We have been for the last 12 months undergoing a lot of work internally to expand our Retail business in under-penetrated markets moving more aggressively into the emerging countries going down market vis-à-vis the channel.
And we have a lot of innovation going on in that space.
Some of which we'll talk to you about it in April that we think could change the curve of that business dramatically for us.
So I feel very good about the outlook we gave you and would be disappointed if we didn't beat it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just the last one can you give us any more color on the order growth in the ATM business? Yes.
The order growth in the ATM business was 2% in Q4 but off of a  Q3 that was up 60.
So we had a huge Q3.
A lot of orders that we wanted to get in Q4 frankly were pulled in.
So I'm comfortable with where we are.
The backlog going into the year on financial is up 21%.
So we're in a wonderful position coming into the year.
The thing you want to keep an eye on is order growth in Q1 Q2.
Our next question will come from the Dan Dolev of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
First thing you just mentioned order growth can you talk a little bit -- it seems to me just from not -- what was not on the press release in terms of the financials was Europe.
Can you just maybe talk about some of the -- what's going on in Europe right now and how has it been evolving early in the year in terms of orders and ATMs et cetera? And then if you could just comment on some of the margin issues with Retail -- not issues but margins are down just if you can give some color on if you think this is going to be reversing anytime soon.
Yes.
First I'll talk about Europe.
Europe orders in the fourth quarter were down 11%.
But on the year we were up about 2% or 3% in orders.
As I've said many times before about flattish.
We expect the same for '12 kind of flat order growth that was baked into our current guidance.
I'd like to think we can do better in Europe but just given the conditions in Europe I think flat is really where we're going to land at the end of the year in terms of orders.
Eastern Europe is doing significantly better than Western Europe.
Although in Western Europe we're doing something that's very important.
We're winning market share while the market is challenged.
So the good news is when the market does turn in Western Europe we'll be better positioned in that part of the world.
We have good quarters.
We have okay quarters.
Europe is not a significant issue for us in light of the many macro-concerns people have right now.
And again I think flat is where it's going to land.
Retail margins in the fourth quarter Bob can you? Yes I can take that one.
What drove -- well first of all for full year retail margin operating margin is up from 4.6% to 4.7%.
In Q4 it was down.
Revenue was down and that drove some of it.
Revenue was down 2%.
But the biggest driver was our consumables business within the Retail line of business.
Paper prices were higher year-on-year and it had a negative impact on the overall operating margin.
Our next question will come from Gil Luria of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> In the ATM business in 2011 you grew far faster than the market and your competitors pointing to share gains in many regions.
In 2012 how much of the 5% to 7% guidance is factoring first your continued share gains? Not a lot Gil.
I mean right now the market is if you look at any indicator it's going to grow around 4% to 6% in that range if you look at RBR or other sources in terms of units.
And so our 5% to 7% does not anticipate the kinds of market share gains we experienced in '11 of current guidance.
Research Division</strong> In spite of the ramp in Brazil and the continued success in the U.S.
and competitors withdrawing in Europe continuing going forward? I'm sorry Gil say that again? Research Division</strong> Let me just move to the Retail business.
How much of a threat or opportunity is the introduction of more mobile products for retailers at the point-of-sale and supplementing the point-of-sale.
You mentioned a few products in the prepared remarks that you have mobile but do you see iPad-based solutions iPad-only solutions as a threat to your Retail business? Or is there an opportunity for you to sell more products to those customers? Gil that could be the game changer for NCR.
We introduced the product at NRF called Silver and you should -- we'll get you information on it.
It is potentially a game changer for us assuming we execute from a distribution and go-to-market point of view in SMB which we intend to do.
It is a significantly better product than Square and a significantly more scalable product than Square and frankly better than other alternatives available in the market today.
It's a SaaS-based cloud-based offer that has very low incoming CapEx requirements and a reasonable month-to-month if you will subscription fee for the services of point-of-sale and a variety of other applications and include loyalty and otherwise.
It does fit on top of iPad iPods in point-of-sale devices.
We are currently in pilot and testing it.
We will be going live and introducing it later this year and scale.
You're talking about a product set that could help a company who lost its way in 1969 moving from electromechanical to digital to completely reversing the trend in a go-forward basis.
So we are very enthusiastic about the mobile trend.
And beyond mobile point-of-sale for small and medium business we have a variety of mobile -- of applications for mobile self-checkout in-aisle applications and we've introduced those as well in NRF and we feel like that is a massive opportunity for the company.
John did you want to talk a little more about that? Sure.
Gil I think that's a great question and I'd like you to think about it this way: There is a significant opportunity for our company as you go down market and you think about the small- to medium-sized business with the number of point-of-sale opportunities that are available to us that have not been pursued through traditional means of our current hardware platform.
And as each one of these variants which I like to see them as nothing more than a window into the cloud.
It’s just a screen of glass whether it's an iPad or an iPod we want to ride those rails like crazy.
SO I love the proliferation of those technologies and I love the proliferation of those technologies over the broadband because that key to our success allows us to take some very feature-rich capabilities in workflow cash and cashless transaction processing our Advanced Marketing Solution our preference manager our loyalty application.
We have got so much that we have embedded that fits and resides in what is now thin-wrapped appliances that we can expose into that environment.
So we like that architecture and we intend to lead in that space.
And Gil just one more remark on this in terms of our software SaaS business.
Our SaaS business now is about $15 million growing at 133% year-on-year.
So when you combine the SaaS assets of NCR and what was once Radiant we have a fairly sizable business that's growing rapidly and we think we can continue to exploit that.
Now Silver wants -- help to manufacturing ramp later this year will be a key driver of that business going forward.
Our next question will come from Matt Summerville of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of questions.
Bill can you clarify something for me.
Was that Europe down 11%? Is that constant currency? Or does that include some sort of FX dynamic? And was that for NCR overall or the whole ATM business? No.
No.
The 11% is Europe only.
It's both as reported and FX neutral because we didn't have any FX impact in Q4.
It was a flat quarter.
That was orders only for financial only in Europe in Q4.
But as I said earlier not unexpected and that it does not have services in it.
It's important that I make sure that point Matt because services improves that number.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if we look at North America outside of small bank can you talk about what you're seeing in that market and then maybe spend a second talking about Asia markets like China and India specifically and what you expect for 2012? And then if you could just comment on pricing again sticking with the ATM business? Yes.
North America has been on fire.
North America just show you where in financial in Q4 just alone in financial was up 10% year-on-year in the financial space.
As we said earlier in the prepared remarks regional banks was a big portion of that.
We're up 130-plus percent in orders in regional banks in Q4.
Big banks continue to be very solid for us overall.
By the way revenue in Q4 in the small bank segment or the regional bank segment was up 222%.
So we continue to see strong trends there and feel good about North America overall.
As you go outside of North America good traction in the emerging markets.
We continue to -- we think we do a nice job in all the emerging markets around the world.
Russia continues to be very solid for us as an example China India as well.
Pricing has been about the same Matt.
It continues to be more of a challenge in emerging markets where there's just endless opportunity and less of a challenge in domestic markets or Western European and U.S.-based markets.
So no real tangible change in pricing for a long time.
Research Division</strong> And then just one follow-up on the agreement you have with Coinstar on that asset purchase.
It's described as up to $100 million in purchase price.
Are there some things that we should be looking at? That will kind of help us -- I guess what determines if it's $100 million or not? And is there a low-end bandwidth on that Bill? Do you know what I mean? Yes.
John? Sure.
So because it's an asset transaction and as we characterized it it's the substantial side of the asset.
No there's nothing material to call your attention to.
But however there is a transition period in which we moved between where we are today through the closing of the transaction.
And of course the transaction itself contemplates if items didn't transfer as contemplated in the deal negotiation.
But no nothing at this time.
But under the structuring which it's written that would be the appropriate way for us to interpret the up to $100 million.
That would be correct.
Our next question will come from Michael Saloio of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> My question is also on the Redbox agreement.
Can you give us a sense of how much of your EPS guidance for next year is related to the sale? None.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So asked a different way could you give us a sense of how the business was doing on the NPOI line in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Bob? That's included in our schedule B.
You can see it as a separate business.
So in Q4 it lost $15 million full year it lost $60 million in 2011.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then going back to the last question was there any -- did you get any upfront payout from Redbox.
No.
As we've reported in the press release it's an asset purchase agreement for the -- up to $100 million at the time of closing.
And then the rest is under a master services agreement which we will actually deliver as they acquire services in the areas of predominantly services and manufacturing.
Michael the way you should think about the manufacturing and the services agreement is simple.
They've committed in the contract to spend up to $25 million over 5 years of profit.
So if you apply the 30% margin on that it's about $75 million of revenue to us over that time period.
Or at the end of 5 years they cut us a check for $25 million if they don't do business with us.
And the whole idea of this arrangement and you should talk to them as well but the whole idea was to -- beyond selling our assets for up to $100 million was to create a significant customer relationship with Redbox where we can provide them services for their kiosks.
And beyond their kiosks there are other businesses like their coin business as well as a manufacturing agreement where we think we are a better manufacturer of what we sell in the marketplace than perhaps who they're doing business today.
So we'd hope over the next 5 years to expand that agreement and build upon this commitment they've made to us but it's not in the current guidance.
Our next question comes from Kartik Mehta of Northcoast Research.
I wanted to understand a little bit about conversion of backlog to revenue.
You've got this huge backlog and what's the time frame for that to convert to revenue? Backlog typically converts over 2 quarters for the most part Kartik not entirely.
If you think about it we average about the conversion of about 45% to 50% each quarter.
So if you do the simple math it's 2 quarters where the backlog kind of converts to full revenue in any given quarter.
So I think you're looking at a 6-month window coming into the year on that 40% [ph] backlog.
And then Bill as you look at the Radiant business and obviously that business has got some good growth characteristics and there's been a lot of talk about EMV and I'm wondering what opportunities that could possibly provide for you to grow that business.
Well EMV is an opportunity not only for the Hospitality business it's an opportunity for NCR Retail.
The entire conversion to EMV if moving ahead at the pace we think it might -- could cause an upgrade cycle in Retail across the board.
Any other comments John? Yes.
I think that everyone in this industry including the incumbents and others are focused on this EMV upgrade and how it manifests itself because it changes a little bit in the way in which transaction processing is thought through today between securing the payment itself through the peripheral and how transaction processing is cleared.
So we're going to continue to participate through standards bodies through our innovation and of course embed as much of that technology as we can into our software stack.
So we pay particular attention to it in Financial Services in Retail and in Hospitality.
But it's also important to us in our Travel business as you'd imagine because a lot of things happen at the point of service via mobile or kiosk inside an airport for upgrades and so forth.
So it's an important part of our go-forward strategy.
Just out of curiosity as that happened in Europe what kind of impact did you see to get somewhat of a baseline of the potential opportunity here in the U.S.? That's a great question.
Unfortunately the answer is not so great because of the -- of our lack of mix and penetration on the geographies.
Boy do I wish I could tell you that we participate in this significant upgrade cycle.
But if I did then I would have told you we participate in more point-of-sale transactions in more countries than we did.
So I think as that happens here in the United States it has a far more profound impact for us depending upon how it plays out because of our install base.
But across places like Europe because we are largely in the largest countries it didn't have as much of an impact for us because of our geographic mix.
That in part and parcel is our strategy to get better balance and participate in those upgrade cycles in emerging markets and developed markets.
And then on the self-checkout business is that business really becoming an international business? Or are there still opportunities in the U.S.
that you are witnessing and where you're seeing retailers order? Yes.
Growth continues in that portion of the business in the U.S.
in grocery.
And we still see greater density of penetration in the U.S.
and you'll continue to see that.
You'll also continue to see it move into different segments like drug and large-format drug.
And the DIY segment continues to move forward aggressively.
Same outside the U.S.
and now you're seeing self-checkout go global particularly in the international market so places like Turkey Korea the Czech Republic Thailand.
We're seeing expansion of self-checkout to new markets.
And the footprint to Bill's point whether it's petroleum or convenience the conversations that we're able to have today based on the acquisition of Radiant and that customer base as it things about self-service in labor-starved locations where they only have one or 2 stores associates has been tremendous.
So it bodes very well for what the large big-box retailers have pushed for which is a format change smaller footprint pedestals self-checkout capabilities those types of investment that we've made for Europe as you mentioned in particular in grocery  both very well for the convenience market.
And think about self-checkout as a family of products so the number of variants has increased dramatically.
So whereas historically to Bill's point we were selling it in food and drug and do-it-yourself kinds of environments you're now getting it into smaller format stores.
They're also getting into products like our convertible SCO where you can use it as either a self-checkout device or an assisted device depending upon peak period volume.
So think of it as growth opportunities domestically global and some of it is coming from multiple variants we've introduced.
This is the year Kartik where the combination of mobile point-of-sale or mobile in-aisle scanning and self-checkout comes to life.
And the 2 variants that will see growth will be the traditional SCO unit where you will use it to tender at a station and then a standalone if you will kiosk-based SCO where you can tender using only credit card not cash.
And so the marriage of mobile and self-checkout comes to life this year in a big way.
And then Bill I just wanted to clarify a comment you made you said order growth in Europe for ATM was down 11% in the fourth quarter.
Is that specific countries in Western Europe? Or are you seeing that float off all across Western Europe? No.
It's very specific to the obvious countries in Europe that you would expect.
Iberia primarily Italy and to a lesser extent the U.K.
but Eastern Europe is very strong for us.
Even France is very strong for us.
So we continue to see Eastern Europe be very strong and portions of Western Europe to be strong.
But again flattish last year overall and it'll be the same in '12 the same kind of mix in '12.
Our last question for the day will come from Zahid Siddique of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
The first one is on the kiosk business where does the Dish Network fit in into the equation? It does not.
This deal is with Coinstar Redbox and as we complete this transaction and we exit the owner operator part of the business as such it would terminate our relationship and the branding relationship we have with Dish and Blockbuster.
Inc.</strong> And any ongoing litigation would then be taken over by Redbox or I guess would be transferred over to Redbox? No.
No it doesn't exist.
It's gone.
It's over.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then a question on the Radiant or the Hospitality business what kind of margins should we expect in 2012 relative to 2011? Our goal is to hit 50 in that business next year.
We think we can hit 50 gross margin 50 in that business.
And we're going to strive for a little bit higher.
We have no further questions.
Well thank you.
Let me remind everyone that in May we have Analyst Day coming up and that Gavin Bell will give all of you the logistics for that meeting and we hope to see you there.
Thank you very much for attending today's call and we'll see you again in April.
Bye-bye.
Thank you for your participation on the conference call today.
At this time all parties may disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] I'd like to inform all parties the call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Gavin Bell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you Kimber.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us for our First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and CEO will lead our conference call this afternoon.
After Bill's opening remarks Peter Dorsman Executive Vice President of our Industry Solutions Group and Global Operations will update you on progress with respect to certain key initiatives.
Bob Fishman NCR's Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on NCR's total company financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered to be forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor page of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of April 19 2012 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this conference call whether as a result of new information or future results.
I'll now turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Gavin and good afternoon to all of you and thank you for joining us.
NCR delivered a terrific first quarter.
For those of you who tuned in to our fourth quarter call a few months back you will hear a lot of the same messages today and that's a good thing from our point of view.
Our first quarter performance came in ahead of our expectations pretty much across the board as our global teams continued to deliver profitable growth through market-leading innovation and superior customer experience.
Total company as reported revenue increased 18% year-on-year 19% on a constant currency basis.
In addition we delivered strong solid organic growth of 8% excluding the Radiant acquisition with growth coming in all markets.
We delivered Q1 records in gross margin and NPOI margin and produced $48 million in free cash flow.
In short the company is executing very well.
The results suggest that the momentum we've seen over the last several quarters continues at a strong pace and as a result we raised our outlook for 2012 for revenue NPOI and EPS in a pre-announcement earlier this week.
Our core business pipeline remains robust particularly in Financial Services where we added to our backlog and generated 17% order growth in Q1.
Total order growth was 5% during Q1 compared to a difficult prior-year compare.
Backlog at the end of Q1 was $1.17 billion just shy of an all-time Q1 record by $7 million.
It's also our 10th consecutive quarter where we have delivered year-over-year backlog growth.
I want to remind you that our reported order growth and backlog does not include Hospitality which understates these year-over-year comparisons.
The Hospitality line of business generated multiple notable customer wins during Q1 and which we believe will be valuable contributors to our growth profile this year and in the future.
Overall the sustained growth in our business pipeline is indicative of NCR's ability to deliver proven value to customers' worldwide market through leading technologies that offer tangible productivity gains robust multichannel integration capabilities and help enhance the customer and consumer experience.
This value proposition successfully positions our customers at the intersection of technological advancement and consumer transaction preferences and is winning us business across each vertical we serve.
We also continued the migration of our revenue mix towards more profitable software and services revenues.
During Q1 our software and Software as a Service revenues increased 65% year-on-year to over $120 million with software gross margins above 70%.
We see NCR's future as a hardware-enabled software-driven company and we are on track to execute our goal of achieving software revenues in excess of $500 million this year or approximately 8% of total revenues.
Another key contributor to our gross margin expansion is our services business where revenues increased 12% and gross margin was up 440 basis points year-over-year.
We continue to win services contracts on a global basis and our file value or services backlog is growing.
Remember file value and backlog are synonymous in the services business.
In addition to our strong financial performance during Q1 we further strengthened our global leadership in our core financial and retail verticals while capturing incremental share in Hospitality.
This is consistent with our sharper focus on the core of our business.
We are leveraging our competitive advantages and global market capability in financial retail and Hospitality while at the same time driving self-service adoption in a smaller set of high-potential lower-risk emerging verticals.
As part of this plan we announced the sale of our Entertainment business to Redbox earlier this year and we expect that transaction to close by the end of the second quarter with regulatory review and approval now behind us.
Looking now at business performance in our core verticals.
During Q1 our Financial Services business generated 17% revenue growth coupled with an increase in segment operating income of 19%.
As I mentioned global Financial Services orders increased 17% during the first quarter which included growth across the majority of both our developed and emerging markets including Europe where orders grew a very healthy 17% in Q1.
U.S.
regional banks remained a key area of strength as capital is being released for investment in advanced ATM solutions such as our Scalable Deposit Module for intelligent deposit.
Revenues in this customer segment were up 210% in Q1 and orders increased 97% over a tough Q1 2011 compare.
In addition to delivering to existing regional bank customers we have been particularly aggressive in seeking to penetrate new competitor accounts.
Over the last year we've penetrated over 300 new regional bank accounts in the U.S.
where NCR has not had a presence for 3 years or more.
All of these accounts were purchasing 100% of their ATMs from the competition.
We also continue to generate notable growth in emerging markets.
A key point of differentiation for NCR is the Financial Services vertical is the competitive advantages we can provide banking customers whether it is transaction processing gains through technology such as our Scalable Deposit Module improved customer service via APTRA Interactive Teller or the superior multichannel banking integration capabilities of our APTRA suite.
NCR helps our customer stand out from the pack which is resulting in customer acquisitions and market share gains around the world.
In Retail Solutions NCR remains positioned at the forefront of self-service technologies while also continuing to enhance our advanced point-of-sale offerings and channel convergence capabilities.
During Q1 our retail revenues declined 9% or down 5% excluding the impact from the movement of customer accounts between retail and our new Hospitality line of business while segment operating income came in at $2 million.
We delivered a strong finish to the quarter however as backlog was up 15% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
Moreover I am increasingly bullish about our position in retail as we look out later this year and particularly 2013.
The backlog we currently have coupled with a strong presales funnel are good signs that the retail business will get back on track.
More importantly we are reporting to launch a number of new exciting products.
One example is NCR silver which you will hear more about at our upcoming May Investor Day conference.
NCR Silver is a bona fide potential game changer that enables retailers to use iPads and iPhones to not only collect payments but to connect with customers in meaningful automated ways and run their business from anywhere.
NCR Silver is more than a point-of-sale or a credit card swipe.
It is a full Software as a Service-based retail solution for small businesses.
NCR pioneered retail technology for the small business and NCR Silver brings us back to our roots bringing the full breadth of our history and experience in a simple yet powerful small business solution.
While we are not first to market with a mobile retail product for iPad and iPhone we do believe our offering is the most robust and sophisticated solution on the market leveraging our full distribution channel and customer care capabilities to reach small business where they are and help them when they need it.
It is a great example of how we're transforming NCR into a software and services-led business.
While we will not be giving out forecast on revenue and profitability for NCR Silver today we will provide some perspective on potential in the upcoming analyst conference.
Hospitality our third core vertical had a very strong first quarter with revenues of $113 million and segment operating income of $19 million.
This includes the shift of accounts between the retail line of business and hospitality that I referenced earlier.
Stand-alone Radiant or what we in prior quarters referred to as HSR generated Q1 revenue of $98 million and NPOI of $19 million.
We intend to keep you up to speed on our progress with Radiant at least through 2012 so you can follow the success of our integration more closely.
Our Hospitality offerings continue to gain share and the business continues to exceed our expectations.
We are winning key business such as our recent deal with Sonic a large drive-in food operator.
The opportunity we won is for approximately 3 500 sites.
This deal represents one of the industry's largest innovation deals and they have selected us as their chain-wide solution.
From an internal perspective our integration and cost elimination efforts remain on target to achieve annualized pretax cost synergies in the $40 million to $50 million range over the course of the next 3 years.
Peter Dorsman who runs our Industry Solutions Group and Global Operations will provide more detail on performance and business momentum in a few moments.
Looking now at our consolidated financial results.
Q1 revenues were $1.24 billion up 18% or 19% compared to last year on a constant currency basis while Q1 gross margin grew 280 basis points quarter-on-quarter to 26.2%.
Our performance was strong worldwide but our standout geography was the Americas where revenue was up 37%.
The line of business star was a tie between the financial line of business and hospitality where orders revenue and profit were strong for both.
NPOI in Q1 was $101 million up 42% compared to $71 million in Q1 of 2011 while our non-GAAP EPS was $0.47 compared to $0.33 in the prior-year period.
These strong results are indicative of the steady and consistent execution of the entire global NCR team.
Our ability to capture share gains through a combination of innovative hardware-enabled software-driven solutions and our ongoing focus on executing our multiyear continuous improvement program.
During Q1 we advanced on our 3-year path towards eliminating $200 million to $300 million in annualized costs and remain squarely on track.
Let's now discuss our revised outlook for 2012.
We currently expect 2012 revenues to increase in the range of 11% to 13% on a constant currency basis excluding that historical performance of our Entertainment business which is now reported in discontinued operations.
NPOI is now expected to be in the range of $570 million to $585 million for the year an increase of 19% to 22% compared to 2011.
We expect non-GAAP earnings per share which excludes pension expense will be in the range of $2.40 to $2.47 for 2012 which is an increase of 17% or 20%.
Finally we expect to generate free cash flow in the range of $100 million to $150 million in 2012 which includes increased cash funding requirements for our U.S.
and international pension plans.
I will now turn the call over to Peter who will discuss our performance by line of business.
Pete? Thanks Bill.
Looking first at Financial Services order growth remains healthy and was up 17% year-over-year during the first quarter.
The continued momentum resulted in backlog growth of 15% compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
We really feel that our robust solution offerings with the support of our market-leading service offerings are enabling NCR to truly differentiate its overall value proposition in just about every market we compete in.
Growth was led by North America and the BRIC markets.
A headline for us continues to be the high level of activity among the mid-sized and regional U.S.
banks where as Bill noted we are gaining share.
These institutions are unlocking capital spending in an effort to mitigate the competitive advantages secured by their larger financial counterparts who are ahead of them in migrating to advanced ATM solutions.
Regional bank revenue more than doubled in the first quarter compared to the prior-year period while orders continued on a torrid pace.
One notable win was Legacy Texas Bank a $1.5 billion financial institution who will be installing new NCR SelfServ ATMs with our Scalable Deposit Module technology.
As part of our agreement with the bank NCR will also be responsible for helping them ensure uptime and machine performance through our Total ATM services package.
In addition to SDM our APTRA Interactive Teller offering is quickly developing traction in the marketplace.
APTRA Interactive Teller delivers an experience similar to a teller through an ATM.
Consumers are increasingly starved for time and can't always visit a branch during typical hours.
Keeping a branch open into the evening or on weekends isn't necessarily cost-efficient.
APTRA Interactive Teller allows consumers to talk to and conduct transactions with a live remote teller in a very cost-efficient manner.
We are on target to commence installations at financial institutions throughout the U.S.
Canada Australia and other countries over the coming months.
In addition Dollar Bank will be introducing APTRA Interactive Teller at its Pittsburgh locations.
Other Financial Services segment developments include our APTRA Cash Connect software reseller agreement with GLORY LTD.
which will make APTRA Cash Connect accessible on over 80% of the world's teller automation installed base.
We also launched our smallest ever SelfServ ATM through a partnership with Cardtronics who is the world's largest retail ATM owner/operator.
Cardtronics has already ordered a significant number of these NCR SelfServ 14 machines which it plans to deploy throughout the United States.
In our retail segment Q1 revenue declined 9% compared to last year or down 5% excluding the impact of the account shifts referenced earlier primarily due to declines in the Americas and Europe.
As Bill mentioned we were able to increase our quarter end backlog 15% compared to the fourth quarter of last year while the business funnel improved.
While growth rates in retail are below what we're seeing in Financial Services it's a dynamic market right now where innovation is critical as consumer preferences for interacting with retailers continue to change.
Our focus is on delivering advanced self-service and point-of-sale hardware and software solutions that enhance the in-store experience while creating a multichannel experience.
Bill already highlighted NCR Silver for you.
These are the types of innovations that retailers want and we are positioning the company to capitalize on what we believe will be an attractive retail upgrade cycle.
Lastly the sale of IBM's point-of-sale business could provide NCR with opportunities on a global basis in both the direct side of our business as well as our growing indirect or channel business.
During Q1 Ahold USA selected our NCR Advanced Marketing Solution to manage its customer promotion programs.
Our AMS software will be made available to all of Ahold USA's local retail divisions which operate more than 750 supermarkets under banners including Stop &amp; Shop and Giant Foods.
In addition to powering Ahold USA's offer and promotion platform NCR will be providing technology migration consulting services and ongoing software maintenance and support services.
Other customer wins include Century 21 a discount designer department store chain who will be upgrading its digital signage using NCR Netkey solution.
Finally we recently introduced the next generation of our NCR Advanced Store software which allows retailers to bridge the gap between their digital and physical sales channels by delivering enhanced marketing capabilities at the point of sale.
We also entered into a technology partnership with VendorNet aimed at strengthening the Advanced Store's sales channel management platform through the integration of VendorNet's inventory management solution.
The combined offering gives retail customers a robust platform from which to effectively manage their channel inventory.
Our Hospitality segment generated Q1 revenues of $113 million while operating income was $19 million again adjusted for the shift of accounts.
We remain highly enthusiastic about our hospitality vertical given the global growth opportunities it provides and its alignment to our strategy to migrate our revenue mix towards more profitable software solutions.
As Bill mentioned we continue to drive market adoption of our hospitality offerings.
One industry sector for hospitality has increased share is in entertainment venues.
During Q1 the Green Bay Packers selected NCR's Quest venue management solution for installation at Lambeau Field.
The agreement calls for approximately 425 wired wireless and touchscreen point-of-sale terminals and devices to be installed throughout the stadium by the 2012 and 2013 season.
Our Quest solution will help enable the Packers to increase vendor speed of service through a faster payment processing and improve workflow technology while also providing a strong foundation from which to manage gift card and loyalty programs for season ticket holders.
During Q1 we were also -- continued to strengthen our position in key emerging verticals.
We had a particularly strong quarter in travel with revenue up 14% year-on-year and orders up 345%.
This was one of the strongest quarters ever in travel and we exited Q1 enthusiastic about the potential of this line of business.
Our Telecom and Technology business continues to perform as well with gross and operating margins expanding nicely in the quarter.
We earned TL9000 certification which is an ISO Quality Management System certification designed entirely for the telecom industry.
This development follows closely on our achieving Data Center Unified Computing Authorized Technology Provider status from Cisco.
Together these certifications will allow NCR to better serve our global telecom and technology clients through the delivery of productivity gains and sustainable business process improvements.
Looking finally at customer services we saw a continued margin expansion as well as increased attached rates during Q1.
Our professional services business saw revenue growth of 39% expanded gross margins and order growth of 10%.
We continue to grow our global footprint as advanced technologies such as Predictive Services gained further market penetration.
During Q1 we announced our Predictive Services technology was now available for NCR RealPOS point-of-sale terminals.
Sainsbury's which is one of the U.K.'s largest retailers will be deploying Predictive Services on its point-of-sale and self checkout lanes as part of a 5-year managed services agreement under which NCR also provide helpdesk and multi-vendor support across 1 000 stores and 23 depots.
In summary NCR is executing exceptionally well across all of our solutions groups.
We're being powered near-term by strong Financial Services and Hospitality performance but we are also well positioned for the eventual upturn in retail and the exciting growth opportunities in high-potential verticals like travel and Telecom and Technology.
Supported by a superior services portfolio in the industries we serve we are able to offer a compelling value proposition that is driving our order growth and financial performance.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob Fishman.
Thanks Pete.
One preliminary note as we mentioned in our earnings press release the results of our Entertainment line of business are now classified as discontinued operations so as a result are excluded for the period and the guidance that we are discussing on this call.
NCR's total reported revenue in the first quarter was $1.24 billion up 18% versus Q1 2011 and up 19% on a constant currency basis.
We reported GAAP income from continuing operations of $38 million or $0.23 per diluted share.
This compares to GAAP income from continuing operations of $19 million or $0.12 per diluted share in Q1 2011.
NCR's results from continuing operations include special items in both periods.
Income from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2012 included $39 million or $0.17 per diluted share after-tax of pension expense $9 million or $0.04 per diluted share after-tax of acquisition-related amortization of intangible assets $4 million or $0.02 per diluted share after-tax of acquisition-related integration costs and a $3 million or $0.01 per diluted share after-tax impairment charge related to an investment.
Income from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2011 include a $51 million or $0.22 per diluted share after-tax of pension expense and a $3 million or $0.01 per diluted share after-tax benefit from final settlement of a litigation matter.
Excluding these items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.47 per share in Q1 2012 versus $0.33 in Q1 2011.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effect of special items and pension expense please see the Supplemental Financial Schedule included in our earnings press release that reconciles our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q1 2012 gross margin was 26.2% up 280 basis points from 23.4% in the prior-year period resulting from higher product and services sales favorable customer and product mix including significantly more software and the successful implementation of cost-reduction initiatives driven by our continuous improvement program.
And operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were approximately 18.1% as a percent of revenue due to continued investment in sales and R&amp;D.
Non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $101 million in the first quarter compared to $71 million in last year's Q1.
Other expense was $11 million in Q1 2012 which included $9 million related to interest expense.
Other income of $6 million in the prior-year period included benefits from final settlement of a litigation matter and from the sale of certain patents.
Income tax benefit was $1 million in the first quarter compared to income tax expense of $6 million in Q1 2011.
Excluding the effect of pension and nonrecurring items the first quarter 2012 effective tax rate was 16% compared to 28% in Q1 2011.
NCR's full year 2012 effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 27%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Cash on hand at March 31 2012 was $414 million with long-term debt of $809 million at the end of the quarter down from approximately $852 million at the end of the fourth quarter.
Moving to the cash flow statement.
NCR generated $89 million of cash from operating activities in Q1 of 2012 versus $49 million in the prior-year period.
Cash from operating activities in Q1 2012 was positively impacted by improvements in operating results period-over-period.
Net capital expenditures totaled $31 million in Q1 2012 compared to $25 million in the prior-year period.
Discontinued operations resulted in $10 million of cash outflow in Q1 2012 compared to $20 million of cash outflow in Q1 2011 largely as a result of cash outflow from the Entertainment business.
NCR generated free cash flow of $48 million in Q1 2012 compared to free cash flow of $4 million in Q1 2011.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plant and equipment and additions to capitalized software.
We continue to deliver good performance with our working capital and we expect free cash flow for full year 2012 to be in the range of $100 million to $150 million which includes a $90 million increase in pension cash funding contributions versus 2011.
I'd like to conclude by providing our full year 2012 revenue growth expectations including services and on a constant currency basis for each line of business.
In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow 7% to 9% up from our prior guidance of 5% to 7%.
As a reminder effective 2012 our retail line of business now includes the specialty retail business from Radiant and our Hospitality line of business now include all hospitality accounts across NCR.
This change in 2012 moves approximately a net $50 million to $60 million of revenue from retail to hospitality.
As a result our revenue guidance is impacted as follows.
In retail we expect revenues to break even down from 2% to 4% growth expected previously.
In Hospitality we expect full year revenues to be in the range of $490 million to $500 million up from prior guidance of $435 million to $445 million.
In our Emerging Industries we expect revenues to be up 7% to 12% similar to previous guidance.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Bill for closing comments.
Thank you Bob and thank you Peter.
We are delighted with the overall results for Q1 and we feel very good about our outlook for 2012.
We are executing well on both the revenue and cost sides of our business and we believe we have continued to strengthen our competitive position worldwide in the industries and geographies we serve.
I want to take this opportunity to especially thank NCR's employees across our global organization for their energy their hard work and commitment to delivering on our business objectives.
In a few weeks May 16 to be precise we will be hosting our next Analyst Day event at the New York Stock Exchange where we will be sharing more insight on our strategy and plans for delivering profitable growth both in the core and in our more focused set of emerging verticals that sit just outside the core.
We will also share some thinking about our capital structure strategy.
You will hear more about how we are building a formidable software enterprise within NCR and more about our focus around delivering innovation world-class services and operational excellence.
If you have not received an invite or have questions please get in touch with Gavin.
We look forward to seeing you all there.
That concludes my or our prepared remarks and in addition to Bob and Peter I've asked John Bruno to join us for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Let's open that up right now.
Operator? And our first question comes from Gil Luria from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> First of all you continue to grow orders in spite of the fact that you're now comping quarters where you had very high order growth specifically in the U.S.
Now that we passed the deadlines for ADA do you expect that order rate to drop off post March 15 deadline? Have you seen that order rate drop off? Should we expect that to happen this year? No you shouldn't Gil.
We're seeing improved or increased activity in the funnel in the U.S.
and in the Americas.
Now the funnel increase is a combination of financial continuing to grow but also retail kicking in in the U.S.
a bit.
So we remain optimistic that the U.S.
market and the Americas in particular -- North America in particular will continue to grow this year.
Frankly right now I think I could see Q2 orders being for the total NCR being quite positive year-on-year as well.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the Radiant side Sonic that's a very big signing.
Sounds like there's a couple of other big signings in the pipeline.
Have you seen a noticeable difference in your ability to close these deals since you acquired Radiant with increased scale and geographic reach? No question Gil.
I have to tell you we've been pleasantly surprised that a number of customers not just in the U.S.
but outside the U.S.
have come to us and have said "Look we think the world of Radiant they're a great company.
But the fact that they have your global scale and your capability gives us a lot more confidence you can support as large an opportunity as the one we potentially want to give you." So Sonic is a good example of that and there to your point are others in the pipeline that would I think would be equal to Sonic.
Next question comes from Julio Quinteros from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you might be able to just sort of parse out the retail segment in terms of the soft spots and where -- when you expect some of those things to turn around what the key drivers would be for that.
And then just as a point of clarification the Hospitality segment I want to make sure that when we think about that the majority of that I think is still the Radiant business.
Or is there something else in there just relative to the way that you guys are disclosing it now as well? Sure.
On retail the soft spots are -- the U.S.
was actually a soft spot in Q1 as was Europe.
And as I said to Gil earlier we're seeing a better funnel in the U.S.
right now for retail.
I'm expecting to have a better second quarter in retail to be very candid with you in the U.S.
Europe will continue to be somewhat of a challenge in Western Europe.
We're doing really well in Eastern Europe.
As I said earlier in the prepared remarks financial orders grew 17% for us in Europe overall in Q1.
So we had a great quarter there.
But the soft spot for retail was the Americas and Europe.
We've had good performances in the Middle East and Africa in Australia throughout other markets.
So it's been more emerging markets than developed markets to be candid with you.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the performance of the Radiant business how is that tracking versus expectations? I think that's where the bump up was right the $435 million to $445 million now $490 million to $500 million? Yes if you think about the $115 million -- $113 million of total revenue for Hospitality we reported in Q1 $98 million of that was what we would consider to be the old Radiant and $15 million of that was the Hospitality accounts that we had at NCR that we transferred over to Radiant.
These were traditional hospitality customers that NCR had won in previous years but are better served by the business unit that does business in that space.
So we moved them to what we're now calling Hospitality which is essentially the Radiant business is operating that for us.
Research Division</strong> And some of that Radiant business is also in retail? Well that's a net number that Bill gave.
Just to explain a little bit further.
I gave full year guidance and I talked about a net $50 million to $60 million coming over to the Hospitality business.
So maybe just to clarify a little further call that $55 million.
And roughly speaking the gross numbers are you've got $100 million of specialty retail going from the old Radiant business to retail and you've got $155 million of Hospitality accounts from the old NCR moving into our new Hospitality line of business.
That's really the way to think about it.
Next question comes from Ian Zaffino from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Bill I know you've thrown a teaser of the capital structure discussion you're going to have at the Investor Day.
Can you give us an idea what you meant? Well look Ian we're always looking at our capital structure and trying to figure out what is the optimal capital structure we should have as a company how can we best use our capital structure to deal with some of our issues.
I'll be very frank with you pension we think could possibly be solved but we don't know the answer to that yet.
We are at historic lows in terms of the debt markets.
We're going to look at that.
We're going to look at a whole bunch of other things though relative to capital structure.
It may not get solved between now and when I see you in May but we're certainly at the board level always looking at capital structure strategy.
And yes very candidly we want to take advantage of these what we think are historic lows in the debt markets and do some good things with our capital structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because the way I look at it as you know there's been a couple of other companies out there who have taken the steps to fund their pensions and I believe it's been well received.
I think also when you go through the math it seems like it's somewhat accretive to free cash flow particularly in the near-term if you were to do something like that.
I don't know if you have any comments surrounding those thoughts or we should just discuss that at the Investor Day.
I think you're right.
And so I mean there's no question that your comments are correct and we see it the same way.
Again our board will be looking at this and we'll continue to study the best uses of our capital structure but your comments are correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I mean I just look at this and you've historically repurchased shares and you stopped for a while for Radiant and it would always be nice to maybe resume that with the additional free cash flow.
Next question comes from Katy Huberter (sic) [Huberty] from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> The NPOI beat of about $13 million in the first quarter seems like it's followed by another strong guide for the second quarter but you're only raising the full year NPOI number by $10 million.
Is there a message in the guidance about the second half or is that just a function of conservatism in the outer quarters? So the beat in Q1 from an NPOI versus consensus was $11 million and we're upping the full year $10 million so pretty close to the beat.
From an operational EPS the beat was closer to $0.09.
I would call half of that as being operational.
The rest was really the tax rate and the timing of that so that's why I'm only giving back really $0.04 on the full year operational EPS.
From a NPOI perspective when you look at it in total and the guidance that we've given the $570 million to $585 million hopefully we'll be able to increase that throughout the year.
We want to take a look at the Q2 orders that come in and the backlog.
It's the first quarter of the year.
So hopefully we'll be in a position to increase that in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Bill since we're in the baseball season question on the regional bank upgrade cycle what inning do you think we're in at this point in the U.S.? Fourth inning third or fourth inning right now to use a baseball analogy.
One thing I'll do is I'm happy to point you back to prior-year calls right.
I think we called this year is the year the regional banks will do those upgrades right on the nose.
And what I said back in '08 '09 was I thought '11 was the regional banks start and it is.
That will go into '12 and possibly into early '13.
By the time we get to late '12 and early '13 the large banks will begin to refresh their deposit automation program with new technology.
We're not standing still relative to technology.
SDM is not the final SDM.
And I think that we probably did an injustice early on Katy to calling this kind of a more of a onetime event this whole deposit discussion because it really isn't.
It's an ongoing change to the ATM landscape and frankly it's going to increase the growth in this market not just in the U.S.
but outside the U.S.
Brazil is not -- is on the fringes of being able to start their Intelligent Deposit upgrade cycle.
That's a 2013 '14 kind of play.
India the same.
Recycling technology we haven't even discussed that but that's a massive opportunity on a global basis and will come onshore in the U.S.
So I think as cash management and the cost of handling cash continues to escalate as it has there are a number of secular growth opportunities that can help us assuming we continue to innovate at the pace that we are to maintain the kind of growth we've had in this business.
Research Division</strong> And is the double-digit order growth in Europe this quarter telling us that the issues with the European banks or potential issues are behind us and we should see continued good orders in Europe through the remainder of this year? Or do you think it's still choppy? It's still choppy in my opinion Katy.
I'd like to believe that we can continue with that kind of growth.
By the way I remain encouraged because the signs we're getting are positive in Europe.
I think I said last year that I thought if we can maintain flat kind of year-on-year order growth in Europe it would be a good year.
We did that in Q1 so I was pleased with the team's performance even though on a relative basis I wouldn't have been pleased if it were another theater.
And I remain skeptical still that that kind of high order growth can be achieved but I wouldn't be surprised if we were low double digits on the year in Financial Services in Europe.
Again I think the key driver for us I have to say Katy is we're just not going to cover off the ball in Eastern Europe.
Next question comes from Kartik Mehta from Northcoast Research.
This is Anthony in for Kartik.
I'm just hoping to get some color on the overall strength in the ATM business.
When would you say was the last time it was this strong? I don't think it's ever been this strong for us.
Perhaps the only other time I can point to would be early '08.
Q1 2008 we had a great quarter but we've now strung together many quarters in a row of success and 10 quarters of increasing backlog in that business.
It's now become a trend so it's -- we're doing real well.
Okay.
Great.
And then what is the status of the Brazil operation at Scopus? And what would you anticipate is the timeframe for market improvement there? The status is that we continue to move forward.
It's a wonderful relationship.
We're absolutely focused on margin improvement.
We've made great strides in the manufacturing facility some as a result of volume some as a result of our continuous improvement efforts but the combination is absolutely improving margins.
Next question comes from Michael Saloio from Sidoti &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Can you speak to Western Europe a little more given that Wincor reported earlier this week citing some pretty poor demand there.
Would you say that the strength that you're seeing is coming more from share gains or simply just as you said kind of spotty demand? In Western Europe it's a share gain story for us to be honest with you Michael.
We have an excellent services platform in Europe and frankly none of our competitors have as good -- have a services infrastructure as wide and as deep as we do across Europe in every country and we leverage that.
We have a technology advantage.
We've talked about that several times in this call.
It helps us as well in the marketplace.
But we're actually doing okay in Western Europe despite the issues there.
Again it's a relative term.
Eastern Europe is without question stronger than Western Europe for us but we are gaining share in Western Europe right now particularly the large markets in the U.K.
France Germany and even Iberia.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And my second question is on the travel business.
Pretty strong or very strong growth in the travel business.
Does that have to do with a refresh going on in the U.S.? Or are you seeing an acceleration of that business overseas? We're seeing an acceleration overseas particularly Middle East Africa geographically.
There is also a refresh going on domestically and our portfolio has expanded dramatically.
It was a hardware-centric business early on.
It has a significant software component to it now.
Michael and just to add to that.
I don't mean to pile on but take travel out of the equation.
Software for us was in Q1 if you added software and our Software as a Services business we were 65% year-on-year.
We're over $120 million in revenue.
That's a big number for NCR.
I mean it's a big number.
We expected to be over $100 million and our software funnel has grown tremendously in the last 6 months.
So we're encouraged by the success we've had in software where margins have grown pretty significantly and encouraged by the funnel we have in that business.
Last question comes from Matt Summerville from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 quick questions on the ATM business.
First as I look at the revenue growth was excellent up more than $100 million operating profit up $9 million year-over-year.
Can you talk about the different dynamics influencing a contribution margin that was under 10%? And then I have just one quick follow-up on that.
Yes I would say the good news is there the software piece of financial really contributed to that profitability as well as the services.
Where we were a little bit challenged was in the hardware margins.
So good news from a software and services.
Hardware margins a little bit challenged but that had more to do with the mix by country.
We continue to drive our CRVE program to win the price-cost battle with hardware.
So I think we can improve those margins but mix was as big a component on the hardware piece and then again very pleased with the software and service contribution for margin.
Research Division</strong> With regards to the hardware mix does it get better from here or worse from here? And can you put that in the context of Wincor's comment the other day talking about meaningful price pressure in emerging markets? It stays about the same for the next quarter or 2.
To be very specific with you Matt once we get Brazil margins where we want them this gets fixed quickly.
Our issue is not broad based in terms of hardware margin.
It's really Brazil right now.
So once we get our hardware margins in Brazil right and we intend to do that you'll see that pickup.
As I've said on multiple calls the emerging markets are always a challenge with regard to margins.
Some quarters they'll be lower some quarters they'll be better depending upon mix.
But it's a Brazil story and then I'd like to see China get a little bit better on occasion.
Next question comes from Zahid Siddique from Gabelli.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions one on the Redbox sale or I guess the blockbuster sale to Redbox that you expect to close in the quarter.
Is the cash expectation still about $100 million? And what's the after-tax number for that? This is John.
There's no change to what we've given out with regard to the position on our cash expectations as we close the transaction so still steady as it goes.
Inc.</strong> And we should just assume a 27% tax rate on that? I'm sorry the tax rate on the...
Inc.</strong> On the cash that you would get? From the cash that would be coming from -- to us from Redbox.
Yes I mean depending on -- 27% would be a fair rate to use.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And the second question is I was trying to do apples-to-apples comparison and last year you had the Entertainment business and I believe it was losing money.
Do you have the EPS total EPS loss for last year for that Entertainment business? The best thing to do is we put out on the web page a non-GAAP view that now excludes Entertainment treats it as discontinued ops.
So it's almost easier to go back.
You'll be able to look and see by quarter and for the full year the business with Entertainment excluded.
The number we gave Zahid before is the number the $0.33 last year Q1 versus $0.47 this year.
So Entertainment's out of both.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And I remember last year the actual number was $0.24 maybe $0.25.
So probably the delta is $0.06 or $0.07 in that.
I think you're right.
Well thank you all for joining the call today.
We appreciate it.
We hope we see you on May 16 at the investor conference and appreciate your compliments and your time.
Take care.
Have a good one.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you all for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And I would now like to turn today's conference over to Mr.
Gavin Bell.
Thank you.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Victor.
Good afternoon and thanks everyone for joining us for our second quarter 2012 earnings call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will lead our conference call this afternoon After Bill's opening remarks Peter Leav Executive Vice President of our Industry Solutions Group and Head of Global Sales will update you with respect to progress in certain key initiatives.
Bob Fishman NCR's Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on NCR's total company financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook.
They are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor page of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on NCR's website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of July 19 2012 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this conference call whether as a result of new information or future results.
I'll now turn the call over to Bill Nuti.
Thank you Gavin.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us.
Our second quarter results keep us on track to achieve our full year objectives and demonstrate the consistent execution and innovation that we are leveraging across all of our lines of business.
Consolidated as-reported revenues increased 11% in the second quarter of 2012 compared to the same period last year.
Revenues increased 15% on a constant currency basis and gross margin and NPOI margin once again reached record levels in Q2.
We continue to execute our strategy to become a solutions company where hardware software and services are integrated to deliver more value to our customers.
This strategy and our solid execution is resulting in NCR generating profitable growth.
In addition to our strong revenue gross margin and NPOI results orders surged in the second quarter growing 19% over the prior year period.
Order growth was bolstered by a significant order in Brazil.
We finished the quarter with backlog of $1.29 billion a record high and our 11th consecutive quarter of year-over-year backlog growth.
As a reminder this order and backlog growth does not include our hospitality line of business which also expanded its business pipeline during Q2.
In addition it does not include our consumables line of business.
Our focus on growing our core verticals Financial Services Retail and Hospitality and solid execution across our product groups and our global services business are combining to drive strong financial performance and a robust business pipeline.
Outside of the core we continue to leverage NCR's strengths in attractive Emerging Industries like Travel as well as Telecom and Technology.
Consistent with this strategy we completed the previously announced sale of our Entertainment business to Redbox in the second quarter consistent with the pricing and terms we announced at the time of the deal.
One of our main goals is now to grow overall revenue contribution from higher margin software and services as we continue to transform into a solutions company.
In the second quarter software and SaaS revenues were up 47% compared to Q2 of last year and our software gross margins were in excess of 65%.
Our target for software revenues this year is $500-plus million and we are well on our way to achieving that objective.
We demonstrated growth in our services business as well with revenues growing 7% and gross margin expanding 270 basis points over the prior year period.
Earlier this month we announced that we reached our highest-ranking to date in the 2012 Global Outsourcing 100 rankings rising 2 spots to #6 overall.
The rankings are established by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals the global standard setting organization and advocate for the outsourcing profession.
The Global Outsourcing 100 is an annual ranking representation of the standard of excellence in outsourcing and NCR's services team clearly stands as one of the top outsourcing services providers.
Customer references -- company recognitions certifications and executive leadership.
As one of the world's leading providers of software support and managed services NCR performs 11 million service actions per year and maintains more than 2 million points of service worldwide.
As we look ahead NCR remains well-positioned to benefit from expected growth in expanding our front office technology across our verticals.
Whether it is productivity gains achieved through advanced ATM or in-branch [ph] solutions our converged Retail Solution that greatly enhances in-store sales and enterprise SaaS solutions for restaurants that enables higher growth through loyalty or our mobile tech and experience for airline passengers that speeds up processing and lowers cost.
In Financial Services we're building upon our global leadership by delivering a robust enterprise platform and market-leading multichannel banking capability that enable financial institutions to enhance their branch operations reduce cost and better connect with their clients.
This innovative and service-backed enterprise platform is driving market share and gains across the globe yielding strong financial performance and high praise for our customers.
Financial Services revenue grew 7% in the second quarter and segment operating income growth was 10%.
In addition to strong financial performance we also continue to see solid order trends with global orders up 24% in Q2 mainly due to growth in Brazil and EMEA.
It's worth noting that our business overall in Europe remains healthy despite the economic issues facing the region as evidenced by FX neutral revenue growth of 13% and FX neutral order growth of 3% in the second quarter.
We continue to expect relatively flat performance for the year in European geographic region overall.
Revenues from the U.S.
regional and midsize banking sector increased 58% during Q2 and for the first half of the year are tracking 119% as of last year as financial institutions in this sector continue to unlock capital spending.
Going forward NCR will face very tough compares in this segment and our share gains continued and the overall growth of this business over the last 18 months has been significant.
In Retail Solutions Q2 revenues decreased 9%.
On an apples-to-apples basis excluding the effect of moving our specialty retail accounts from our Hospitality segment to Retail Solutions revenues decreased 6%.
Despite the decrease in revenues segment operating income in Q2 was $28 million compared to $19 million in Q2 of last year.
Retail orders were up 2% on an apples-to-apples basis in the second quarter.
Like Financial Services our retail vertical strategy is built upon understanding our customer's needs and enabling them to secure productivity gains and deliver a converged experience that meets and exceeds the expectations of a rapidly changing consumer.
And nowhere is this value proposition more evident than with the successful launch of NCR Silver this week our latest SaaS-based Retail Solution which will make it easier for small business owners to run their business connect with customers and sell from anywhere.
As we outlined on our recent Investor Day NCR Silver is more than just a point of sale.
Rather it is a total solution that provides a full suite of applications to customers including point of sale secure payments customer loyalty business reporting and mobile access.
We are very excited about the positive acceptance we've received from small businesses media and our partners.
This week we launched a media blitz that reached well over 30 million people through broadcast television radio and print in more than 400 publications.
Media and customers are embracing NCR's return to our small business roots and our renewed image and visibility is driving business excitement across our business and across the globe.
The overall response has been that Silver is a game changer for small businesses given the advanced feature set and customer support designed specifically to meet the small business owners' needs with approximately 4 million small businesses in the U.S.
and another 8 million globally.
We see Silver as a great opportunity for NCR.
We have a rich history and expertise in providing innovative solutions to industries that service consumers.
NCR Silver leverages that expertise to deliver a powerful yet simple new solution to a segment of the market we have not been serving for nearly 50 years: small and medium businesses.
Simply put we are leveraging our past to create our future.
While we remain committed to delivering innovative POS solutions we also continue to be the global leader in self-checkout retail technologies.
Revenues for NCR self-checkout solutions were up 33% in the second quarter versus the prior year.
Overall we remain bullish about the retail vertical long term given our innovative and leading suite of POS and self-service technologies.
Our third core vertical Hospitality posted another strong quarter with revenues of $130 million and segment operating income of $21 million.
Again these numbers reflect the movement of accounts in connection with the vertical realignment we implemented earlier this year.
Excluding the effect of these moves Hospitality formerly known as Radiant generated Q2 revenue of $114 million and NPOI of $23 million.
We continue to add to our #1 position in the restaurant technology space by focusing on the things that have gotten us where we are: An amazing point of sale hardware/software solution augmented by a SaaS stack with a dozen modules.
The excitement of our customers worldwide is showing up in our pipeline and backlog data which has grown more than 20% since the end of 2011.
The growth in the business in both revenues and margins has been led by the SaaS business.
Not only is this a part of the business the value driver of our customer's profits it also reflects how we win when our customers win.
The key driver of our SaaS business application sites grew over 40% from a year ago to over 90 000.
Business activity in the sector remains strong and we are capturing orders with recent wins including all of Carlson's U.S.-based T.G.I.
Friday's locations and all of Krispy Kreme's U.S.
corporate-owned sites.
While we are growing the business and signing brand-name customers in the U.S.
we have also been executing our strategy for longer-term growth abroad through a number of acquisitions in Brazil a market where we have long been dedicated to and one in which restaurant spending is forecasted by Euromonitor to grow 9% to 10% annually.
The expansion of our client base and global footprint are occurring in tandem with our ongoing integration and cost elimination efforts which are well on their way to deliver the expected annualized pretax cost synergies in the $40 million to $50 million range over the next 3 years.
As a final comment before turning it over to Peter we continue to evaluate alternatives with respect to our pension strategy and expect to disclose the results of our analysis in the very near term.
It is more likely that we will communicate our strategy within the next several weeks.
Peter Leav who now runs our Industry Solutions Group and Global Sales organization will now provide more detail on our performance by vertical as well as provide a deeper dive into our business highlights for the quarter.
Peter? Thank you Bill.
In Financial Services we saw a strong order momentum in Q2.
Order growth was 24% for the quarter driven by ongoing strength in emerging markets particularly Brazil.
U.S.
regional and midsized banks increasingly view NCR as the most logical partner for the deployment of advanced ATM solutions to improve the consumer experience deliver increased productivity and customer satisfaction gains and provide an integrated banking experience across multiple channels.
One notable win in this market was Central Bank which serves Provo Utah and surrounding communities.
Central Bank will be deploying NCR SelfServ ATMs as part of its efforts to revamp its ATM network and provide customers with faster and more convenient service levels.
The SelfServ ATMs that Central is deploying contain our Scalable Deposit Module or SDM technology which allows consumers to deposit both cash and checks together simultaneously through a single slot.
We continue to win with SDM as evidenced by the announcement this morning that NCR has been selected by SunTrust Bank to deploy SDM technology as sole provider of their ATM deposit automation network.
SunTrust is making self-service banking faster and easier for its customers in more than 1 600 locations by deploying NCR SDM technology.
SunTrust has already installed more than 1 200 NCR SDM SelfServ ATMs.
Advanced technologies such as SDM distinguish NCR's portfolio from the competition and we continuously work to further differentiate our offerings by investing in the next generation of technology to enable branch productivity gains.
A great example of this is our new NCR Mobile Cash Withdrawal application which gives consumers the ability to initiate cash withdrawals from their mobile devices and then complete the transaction at an ATM by simply scanning a 2D bar code.
Early tests of the technology show that it can reduce ATM transaction time to 10 seconds.
We continue to invest in solutions focused on branch transformation.
We currently have R&amp;D partnerships in place with 6 major financial institutions and see this as a major opportunity for NCR to help drive innovation with our customers for their customers.
In addition NCR recently launched an expanded suite of digital signage kiosk and managed services tailored to meet the needs of our community banks and credit unions.
These solutions will provide our partners with an opportunity to improve the security and availability of their self-service network while also using digital merchandising technologies to effectively promote products and services in their branches.
In our Retail segment orders were up 2% on an apples-to-apples basis in the quarter.
Overall we are pleased with the progress of our self-checkout.
We are also pleased with the progress we've made with our international customers including a significant win in Australia.
Strategically we continue to develop a global self-checkout driven business supported by a profitable services proposition.
Our Hospitality segment continues to perform well.
In Q2 we saw revenues of $130 million and operating income of $21 million.
We secured a number of noteworthy customer agreements during Q2.
Krispy Kreme will implement the NCR Aloha solution in all of its U.S.-based corporate-owned sites and will also make this solution available to all of its franchisees.
Aloha will enable Krispy Kreme to manage key daily operations at the local level while also providing the freedom to host transactional data systems configuration and management functions in the cloud.
As a result Krispy Kreme will be better positioned to deliver an improved customer experience across its locations and secure productivity gains to improve restaurant operations.
We also entered into an agreement with Carlson Restaurants which will be implementing NCR's inventory and labor management solution across all of its domestic T.G.I.
Friday's restaurants.
This solution will provide each T.G.I.
Friday's with multiple back office maintenance efficiencies including food and cash management labor scheduling management employee transfers and the ability to export information through existing HR and point-of-sale systems.
These efficiencies are designed to allow restaurant managers to spend more time on the floor interacting with guests and helping deliver a better service experience.
While our hospitality solutions are already generating noteworthy client wins we are continuing to invest in our offerings and build upon the value proposition we can provide our customers.
In May we launched NCR Customer Voice a web-based customer loyalty retention and referral tool that will allow restaurant operators to track customer satisfaction quickly respond to customer dissatisfaction and drive brand awareness online via key social media channels.
NCR Customer Voice is currently integrated with the NCR Aloha restaurant technology solution and will be made available for other NCR product lines next year.
Our Emerging Industries grew orders by 39% in Q2.
In Travel we are investing in new products and services designed to deliver better and faster consumer service in the terminal and gate areas of airports.
These new products include the next generation of mobile applications and kiosk systems for passenger check-in as well as modern cash management and interactive digital signage and wayfinding solutions.
One of these products NCR Mobile Pass is a new solution that converts a smartphone into a boarding pass and expands our mobile suite to allow passengers to manage their flight from booking and reservation to check-in and now to boarding at the gate.
Another solution worth highlighting is NCR Netkey Wayfinding which helps improve orientation at airports and helps passengers find gates flight information shops and special offers.
In the Telecom and Technology vertical NCR recently achieved 2 new next-generation data center certifications from Cisco Systems the unified computing technology and advanced data center architecture specializations.
These designations recognize NCR as having fulfilled the training and program prerequisites to sell deploy and support the Cisco Unified Computing System and Cisco Data Center Solutions.
NCR is well-positioned to assist customers in their next-generation data center transformations including data center fabric virtualization and cloud computing.
Lastly our services business generated 7% revenue growth in Q2 and grew its file value and attach rates.
During Q2 we expanded our relationships with Aruba Networks through a new global services agreement and won the highly coveted Best ATM Installation and Management Project award at the Asian Banker 2012 Technology Implementation Awards for our deployment of NCR Predictive Services with the Bank of New Zealand.
In summary NCR remains well-positioned across our solution groups and our focus on our core verticals is delivering results.
Financial Services continues to be a bright spot for NCR and we are successfully executing our global growth strategy in hospitality.
We are strengthening our retail offerings through exciting introductions such as NCR Silver while also demonstrating progress in our emerging verticals and expanding our Global Services business.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Fishman.
Okay.
Thanks Peter.
One preliminary note.
As Bill mentioned we completed the sale of our Entertainment business on June 22 2012.
So consistent with Q1 the results of that business are classified as discontinued operations and are excluded for the periods and the guidance that we are discussing on this call.
NCR's total revenue in the second quarter was $1.41 billion up 11% versus Q2 2011 and up 15% on a constant currency basis.
We reported GAAP income from continuing operations of $67 million or $0.41 per diluted share.
This compares to GAAP income from continuing operations of $45 million or $0.28 per diluted share in Q2 2011.
NCR's results from continuing operations include special items in both periods.
Income from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2012 included $39 million or $0.17 per share of pension expense $10 million or $0.04 per share of acquisition-related amortization of intangible assets $4 million or $0.02 per share of acquisition-related integration costs and $4 million or $0.01 per share impairment charge related to an investment.
Income from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2011 included $53 million or $0.23 per share of pension expense and $1 million or $0.01 per share of acquisition-related transaction cost.
Excluding these items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.65 per share in Q2 2012 versus $0.52 in Q2 2011.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effect of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release that reconciles our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q2 2012 gross margin was 27.3% up 290 basis points from 24.4% in the prior year period resulting from higher product and services sales favorable customer and product mix including significantly more software and the successful implementation of cost-reduction initiatives driven by our continuous improvement program.
And operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were approximately 16.4% as a percent of revenue due to continued investment in sales and R&amp;D.
During Q2 of 2012 we completed the sale of a facility in Scotland and recognized a $5 million gain on the sale.
Last year in Q2 we announced the change in the long term disability benefits provided to former employees which resulted in a $6 million benefit.
Non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $154 million in the second quarter compared to $116 million in the prior year period.
Operating margins were higher for all lines of business in Q2.
Financial Services increased to 10.9% versus 10.6%.
Retail Solutions increased to 6.8% from 4.2% and Emerging Industries increased to 23% from 21.7%.
Hospitality operating margins were 16.2% in Q2.
Other expense was $13 million in Q2 2012 which included $8 million related to interest expense.
Income tax expense was $21 million in the second quarter compared to income tax of $13 million in Q2 2011.
Excluding the effect of pension and nonrecurring items the second quarter 2012 effective tax rate was 26% compared to 25% in Q2 2011.
NCR's full year 2012 effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 27%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Cash on hand at June 30 2012 was $377 million with total debt of $740 million at the end of the quarter down from $827 million at the end of the first quarter.
Moving to the cash flow statement.
NCR generated $31 million of cash from operating activities in Q2 2012 compared to $71 million in the prior year period.
Net capital expenditures totaled $37 million in Q2 2012 compared to $36 million in the prior year period.
NCR generated negative $41 million of free cash flow in Q2 2012 compared to 0 in Q2 2011.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plant and equipment and additions to capitalized software.
Both cash from operations and free cash flow in Q2 were negatively impacted by additional pension contributions.
We continue to deliver good performance with our working capital.
On a year-to-date basis free cash flow is positive $8 million versus $4 million in the prior year period.
The company still expects free cash flow of $100 million to $150 million for the full year.
In the second quarter NCR also generated $100 million from the sale of the Entertainment business which is excluded from our free cash flow calculation.
I'd like to conclude by confirming our full year 2012 revenue growth expectations including services and on a constant currency basis for each line of business.
And as a reminder effective 2012 our Retail line of business now includes the specialty retail business from Radiant and our Hospitality line of business now includes all hospitality accounts across NCR.
This change in 2012 moves approximately a net $50 million to $60 million of revenue from Retail to Hospitality.
As a result our revenue guidance is as follows.
In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow 7% to 9%.
In Retail we expect revenues to break even.
In Hospitality we expect full year revenues to be in the range of $490 million to $500 million.
In our Emerging Industries we expect revenues to be up 7% to 12%.
We expect NPOI to be in the range of $140 million to $146 million or growth of 14% to 19% for the third quarter.
We are also reaffirming our full year 2012 NPOI and non-GAAP EPS expectations.
Both Q3 and full year guidance now includes an approximate $10 million incremental investment in the back half of the year in customer services.
This investment is being made to support the growth that we have seen in customer services revenues.
Finally we expect the effective tax rate in Q3 to be approximately 30%.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Bill for closing comments.
Thank you Bob and thank you Peter.
NCR performed solidly in the second quarter and the significant growth in order volumes strengthens our conviction in the goals we have set for 2012.
Despite signs of renewed economic difficulties in a number of markets and geographies our business trends continue to look healthy.
We are delivering innovation and productivity to customers in an area that is critical to them the front lines where consumers meet them to transact business.
At NCR we want to take full advantage of the opportunity this presents to us by growing revenues in our core verticals by expanding our business into adjacent verticals and emerging areas like travel and by enhancing our profitability.
And we're achieving the latter not just through cost savings though cost reduction is critically important.
We're doing it by transforming NCR into a software-driven business an initiative that enhances the solutions we deliver to customers while also enhancing our margin profile.
In short I believe the company is executing well on all of these strategic fronts.
And that is demonstrated in the results we are delivering.
We aim to continue the momentum.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
In addition to Bob and Peter I've asked John Bruno to join us for Q&amp;A on the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> The U.S.
regional is doing very well right now but I think you said something about comps getting harder.
Is that revenue comparable than the second half of the year next year? Is that order comparable? Are we going to look at flat revenue next year? I know it's a little early to think about that but -- or are we really peaking in terms of activity in the U.S.
and should expect declines going forward? Gil I think we'll continue to see healthy revenue growth in nationals the next few quarters for sure.
The backlog for that business remains healthy.
There's no question we're facing tougher compares because of course our success in that space has been quite significant over the course of the last 18 months for sure if not 2 years.
With the ADA process behind us and in front of us deposit automation I remain encouraged.
And of course we haven't yet talked about what we're doing in branch automation and store automation which is something that we'll talk more about in Q3 and Q4 which we think will have a significant impact on revenues in that space in 2012.
That being said it's a tough -- the compares are just getting tougher because the numbers are getting bigger.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my follow up is about a couple of the expense items that you mentioned for the second half of the year.
Could you give us more detail about what that $10 million in customer service is? And then how much spending on advertising and specifically spending on Silver is impacting second half numbers? We're spending an incremental $10 million in the back half mostly Gil on headcount for new customer engineers new territory managers to manage those customer engineers and just making sure that we have the right capacity in place given the significant increase in the number of units we're now servicing.
So that's mainly where that $10 million is going.
It's also to some extent going into parts and the ability to just upgrade our parts inventory.
We have baked in to this outlook as well an incremental $11 million of investment in Silver and that's on the year and that $11 million was already in our outlook last quarter.
So we didn't need to call it out today but it's about $11 million and more than that if you look all-in on the full year for Silver.
Our next question comes from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an idea -- and I know you always breakout the revenue from an FX standpoint but would you be able to give us the earnings hit this quarter kind of what you're assuming in guidance going forward I guess it's becoming more and more pertinent.
FX just to give you some perspective of course we have the euro going against us but we have other currencies going with us around the world.
The Indian rupee is a good example of that.
When you look at the full year year-on-year revenues right now assuming nothing changes given what we know will be down about $131 million on a year-on-year basis.
That's apples to apples if you will year-on-year.
The impact on profit given our hedging strategies given that we have some FX going with us some going against us is in the neighborhood of like $10 million year-on-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess $0.01 or $0.02 per quarter? Because I'm trying to look at guidance and it looks like guidance should probably be maybe $0.05 higher $0.06 higher but I guess you're assuming kind of the euro stays around this $1.22 level or so.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question would be on the pension I guess there's kind of 2 parts.
The first one would be help us understand what the new service transport bill does to your position does to your thinking and as well as your approach.
And then number two and this might show my naïveté to the whole situation but why not give us an update now? What are you doing for the next couple of weeks that that would delay any type of announcement? Well I'll answer the latter and I'll let Bob answer the first part of your question in terms of the impact that the latest pension reform has on us.
We're still analyzing all of the pension alternatives that we have.
We of course need to review all of this with our Board of Directors as well and that's -- our board continues to remain very involved in all of our strategic efforts and this being one of them.
So we still have some work to do frankly Ian and we do expect to be able to talk to you all about this in the next several weeks.
In terms of answering the first question I would say the reform certainly helps push out some of our U.S.
contributions a couple of years.
But the underfunded position really stays the same from a GAAP perspective.
So that piece doesn't change and we'll talk about that a little bit more fully when we have our pension announcement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as far as the last thing you said from what the rating agencies look at would that change? Because I know they oftentimes treat the underfunded pension as debt I'm wondering if now that amount is reduced and therefore the rating agencies are looking at you as a much less levered company? Well I think the rating agencies at least S&amp;P have tended to look at our underfunded position net of tax and that really doesn't change too significantly based on pension reform.
Our next question comes from Dan Perlin with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
When we think about -- kind of going forward the next couple of quarters for order growth and you've already called out more challenging comps in regionals but -- and you obviously had a very big order in Brazil and I'm just trying to think about how we should break down this growth expectation between those 2 areas emerging and then what we've had over the past as you said several years benefit from regionals.
Is that just shifting over towards more of the emerging market and then there's some opportunity that we can think about domestically? And then also on that same vein if you're seeing a mix shift more towards emerging can you just remind us the margin differential? Sure.
The first thing I'd say is that in terms of order growth looking out we just had a tremendous quarter in orders.
And again Brazil featured prominently in that quarter.
But you'll continue to see the developed markets and even the national bank segment grow for us.
Over that time period we'll have tough comps.
Growth will come down and we'll see where that lands but I do think the deposit automation cycle is alive and well in that space.
And again we have other technologies we'll be selling into that space going into next year.
That doesn't mean that it will be robust in the back half of the year.
I'm not -- we're not expecting that in our outlook frankly.
In terms of emerging markets yes we continue to see great growth in the emerging markets driven by Brazil this past quarter.
We'll continue to see growth in India.
We'll continue to see growth in other markets that are smaller in nature but emerging around the world.
I think the way you need to think about growth going forward in the core is that it will moderate somewhat in the next few quarters but that our other businesses not included in our growth forecast for orders like Radiant or Hospitality will continue to be good solid growth businesses for us and that's a great tailwind for NCR.
So remember when we talk about orders we're talking about our core business that does not include our Hospitality line of business.
Does that help you? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that's good.
Well I just had a quick question on the cash flows.
One of the items in your working capital went -- it looks like negative $33 million your other assets and liabilities.
I'm just wondering is there anything to call out of that? A pretty big swing relative to last year's? Does it have something to do with Silver? Does it have something to do with -- your putting out equipment that's under a services deal as opposed to just a hardware deal? No.
This is pretty typical for us.
Working capital is a usage of funds in Q2 and Q3 as we ramp for a big Q4.
So typically we see our inventories increase as well as our receivables.
So nothing unusual and all built into our free cash flow forecast for the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wasn't really talking about receivables or inventory I was talking about the other asset and liability line negative $33 million versus $20 million positive in the year ago.
Yes the other assets and liabilities is made up of many different accounts from our tax accounts to our different other accounts.
So it really is an explanation of those [ph] -- movement in 7 or 8 different accounts.
It just tends to be lumpier.
That piece you'll see good guys flow one quarter and bad guys in others.
I wouldn't be particularly concerned about the movement you've seen in this quarter.
Our next question comes from Matt Summerville of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First I just want to make sure I understand the order numbers properly.
If you kind of back out that Brazil order Bill how would the ATM business have looked in terms of order growth year-over-year and then the total company as well if you have that.
I think we've been up low single digits for both the Financial Services business and for the company.
Research Division</strong> And then how would U.S.
ATM orders have looked in the quarter and then how are you thinking about the retail business going forward? Are you seeing point of sale revenue push out? Are you seeing cancellations deferrals? Is that a concern and maybe you can speak to that in terms of North America versus Europe rest of the world? On the retail front apples to apples orders were up about 2% which was encouraging particularly given the fact that we did have some orders pushed out from Q2 to Q3.
And I'm optimistic about retail in Q3 in terms of orders.
On the ATM front the U.S.
was -- do you have the number? Slightly up in total.
Slightly up in total.
And it was okay for us in the U.S.
Again I think we're also dealing with a tough comp from Q2 last year.
We had some big orders in Q2 of last year.
So I was pretty pleased with the quarter on the financial side.
Our next question comes from Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Bill one of the areas that you pointed to as strength was Europe.
And I'm wondering if you just could provide maybe where you're seeing the strength and maybe just your overview on some of the larger markets what's happening there fundamentally? Well I mean the strength in Europe is coming from Eastern Europe not Western Europe.
Although we had one country in particular in Western Europe that did well this past quarter in orders.
But on an overall basis it's Eastern Europe driven for us and the point that I made in the script was that I think Europe on a constant currency basis would have been up 3% in orders and 13% in revenue.
And we've been calling that flat.
And on an as-reported basis was down.
So I'm still in the space Kartik of this -- again planning for a flat Europe going forward at least in the middle term.
But I am encouraged by our strength in that market despite some of the issues that we are experiencing.
Again our strength in Eastern Europe though is outpacing the headwinds we see in any countries in Western Europe.
Then just a second question Bill you mentioned this at the analyst meeting and then again it seems like the market in India is changing quite rapidly and it seems as though NCR has a lot of opportunities there.
I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about maybe how you see that playing out and what you see that as having an impact on revenue growth going forward? Well the market in India is or has changed.
We have been participating in a process in India that will have NCR become in essence an ISO player in that market over the course of the next 2 to 3 years.
We're excited about the potential of that market.
We continue to serve the Indian market as well as a vendor provider for both public and private banks.
So that business model shift that I just described isn't going to fully turn the market up on its head.
By the way we also provided ATMs to companies who won those bids third parties that we were providing ATMs to.
So we're going to participate where we have in the process in becoming an ISO and we're also providing ATMs to those who've won ISO bids and we'll continue to work as their vendor partner to those public and private banks that don't move in that direction.
Our next question comes from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to the EPS some of the puts and takes there especially as it relates to currency and the incremental expenses.
I don't know Bob if you can just kind of walk us back through some of the drags that you expect from currency.
It sounded like you said $0.01 to $0.02 per quarter and then an incremental $10 million of expenses for customer service.
Can you just make sure that those are the correct numbers? Yes we talked about a $10 million investment in the back half of the year.
So that obviously has to be factored into the...
Research Division</strong> That's not per quarter that's for the whole.
No that's for the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then on the FX the point Bill was making is for the full year compared to last year the revenue impact is around 3% in total.
And then the bottom line impact because we hedge because we have offsetting exposures is less than $10 million.
Now the way the currencies move it's not necessarily a flat divide by 4 and $2.5 million.
So we actually saw in Q2 favorable FX impact to the bottom line and in Q3 and Q4 we're seeing a little bit more headwind to the operating income.
But overall for the full year it's around $10 million.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Great.
And then if we just go back to the margin profile of the businesses the performance in the services was way way ahead of where we were in terms of gross margin expansion modeling.
Is this new level that we're seeing now this 26% or so level we've had 2 quarters of it now kind of the sustainable run rate? Or how do we think about that as you go forward from here? Is there some seasonality to think of? I was just trying to get my arms around how that piece looks for the rest of this year here? Well the way I think of it and then Bill can add his comments is services is really a mix of businesses.
It's a mix of our installation services on hardware and software maintenance our professional services consulting business as well as our SaaS business.
And so as we get more SaaS into the mix it's going to help drive that gross margin higher.
We also have a number of continuous improvement initiatives within the overall maintenance business which helps improve margins.
So really it's 4 or 5 different types of services all impacting that margin.
And our next question comes from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> A quick follow up.
Bob you've paid down the debt looks like to right around $700 million.
You just got a check for $100 million.
You're going to generate cash flow in the back half of the year.
Is the cash going to go to paying down debt more or maybe buying back some stock? Well again Gil we look at all alternatives.
I think it's important to think through a few of the things that I had talked about as part of the Investor Day back in May.
We certainly talked about buying back shares when it makes sense.
We talked about smaller strategic M&amp;A and then we also talked about our focus on pension.
And I think Bill had alluded to the fact that we would be having our pension announcement in the next couple of weeks and I think that will help clarify how we are thinking about using our cash.
Yes Gil I'd say a few things.
First of all we're orchestrating an interesting strategy for the company right where on one hand we're headstrong with regard to eliminating some legacy issues the company has had so that we can continue to focus on our growth strategy as a company and we're doing that.
And we're always going to use our balance sheet effectively to accomplish that goal.
If I had to tell you today what I think the next year looks like though it would be a combination of using the balance sheet to affect a change in our pension underfunded status and where it makes sense some acquisitions for growth.
Perhaps not to the magnitude of course of a Radiant but in line with our strategy to continue to improve our gross margin mix and they would be very software-oriented acquisitions to if you will bolt on to what is a very big and fast-growing software company here at NCR.
Our next question comes from Dan Dolev with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question like a bit more general.
So you had a great quarter great EPS above expectations and you're still keeping the guidance for the year.
What is it if at all that keeps you I mean maybe it's just that extra expense but what is it that keeps you sort of more conservative for the year? Is there one thing or multiple things that keep you? Well I think it's a combination of things Dan.
I think first of all we are making a number of significant investments in the business.
Bob talked about the investment in services and the silver lining of that investment is that we had substantially higher growth and the unit [ph] count that we're supporting in the field is substantially higher than we expected and we don't want to lose traction relative to customer satisfaction.
So we're going to make those investments and continue to build a strong services business.
Secondly I did reference Silver.
We're investing about $11 million in Silver.
And most of that investment by the way is in the back half of the year not the front half of the year.
So that is another piece of the puzzle.
By the way we are making investments in other businesses.
So let me be clear we're investing in sales headcount.
We're investing in retail technologies.
So R&amp;D continues to be an area of investment.
Additionally for those of you who know us I think you know us to be pragmatic and practical with regard to outlooking our business.
And the increased volatility and uncertainty in the world I think has to be recognized right now in terms of how one thinks about their outlooks.
And we've been very successful here in meeting or exceeding our guidance and we want to continue to do that.
In the world in which we live today I think it's prudent as well given all the investments we are making just to be cautious.
Our final question comes from Matt Summerville of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a second quick follow up Bob and I apologize if I misheard you.
Did you say that FX had a positive influence on your bottom line in the second quarter? And if so can you help me understand the mechanics behind that? Yes.
It just so happens that where we had our costs our plant for example in Budapest some of our costs in India those currencies worked in our favor and so our cost came down.
We're not talking a huge number.
It's less than a $5 million favorability in Q2 but it did happen to swing in our favor in that quarter.
We will see a little bit of headwind in Q3 and Q4 and overall for the year about $10 million.
Research Division</strong> Were there hedges behind this? I mean the rupee's been getting hit for a while here.
I guess I'm still not understanding.
Every other company I speak with is talking about the rupee being a headwind.
Yes we've outsourced a significant piece of our transaction processing to Accenture.
It helps to bring our cost down in that type of relationship.
In Budapest we obviously have our manufacturing plant.
So that's the favorability we're seeing.
Well look thank you all for joining us today.
We appreciate that.
And obviously if you have further questions Gavin and Bob will be available to talk to you.
Thanks a lot.
And we'll talk to you soon.
Take care.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And I'd now like to introduce the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Gavin Bell.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Michelle.
Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us for our third quarter 2012 earnings call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will lead our conference call this afternoon.
After Bill's opening remarks Peter Leav EVP and President Industry and Field Operations will update you on progress with respect to certain key initiatives.
Bob Fishman NCR's Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on NCR's total company financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call Bill will be referring to a presentation posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor page of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on NCR's website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of October 18 2012 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise this information including this conference call whether as a result of new information or future results.
Before I turn the call over to Bill Nuti I wanted to update you with respect to the company's internal investigation of the anonymous allegations of a purported whistleblower as previously disclosed in our Form 8-K filed on August 14 2012.
Together with our outside counsel we are making good progress towards completing our internal investigation in a thorough and expeditious manner.
The goal of the investigation is to refute those allegations that are untrue and to take appropriate remedial action with respect to allegations that may be true.
The company is cooperating fully with the authorities with respect to this matter including with the Office of Foreign Assets Control; the Securities and Exchange Commission which is investigating and has served a subpoena on the company; and the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Georgia through which the company has voluntarily provided requested copies of the whistleblower communications.
In addition the Board of Directors has received a demand letter from an individual shareholder demanding that the board investigate and take appropriate action in connection with certain of the whistleblower allegations.
The board has formed a special committee to investigate and respond to the demand.
Given that our investigation is ongoing we will have no further comment on this matter during the earnings call.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bill Nuti.
Yes thank you Gavin and good afternoon to all of you.
I'm going to take you through some key takeaways from the third quarter highlights of our lines of businesses and then really talk a bit about Radiant.
And well we're now about a year into the acquisition and I promised all of you at this time to give you an update on how we are doing.
I also want to talk a bit about operational excellence today from the point of view that while NCR has orchestrated a growth-oriented strategy and executed well we remain focused on the fundamentals on the basics of running our company.
And then I'll close my section with a pension update and give you a view to where we are today vis-à-vis pension.
Everything I discuss will be drilled down on both by Peter and Bob subsequent to my initial comments.
Let me refer to you Slide #3 in the deck.
The title slide is Q3 2012 Key Takeaways.
The first comment I'd make is that I'm pleased with our overall revenue growth 6% as reported 9% growth on a constant currency basis.
The growth really stems from a variety of areas but it really does I think underpin the diversity of NCR the great diversity of the number of industries we are in the number of geographies we're in and product segments.
Gross margin has been a great story for NCR for a long time.
We have executed well relative to a consistent gross margin improvement plan and we hit a record in Q3.
Our gross -- operational gross margin was up 260 basis points to 27.3% an excellent performance on the part of this team driven by software and software revenues as well as good performance on the part of the core business and hardware margins.
Talking specifically about software up 35% year-on-year an area of great focus for NCR.
We are on track to achieve the outlook I gave you at the beginning of the year and then reaffirmed last quarter.
Our software revenues will eclipse $500 million this year closing in on about $550 million of revenue and that is without adding the PS business or professional services business to that number.
So we're pleased with our focus in software and our growth across the board.
One of the areas I'll talk about in a moment is SaaS because I think the Software-as-a-Service piece of that has been growing faster and an outstanding addition to our recurring revenue opportunity going forward.
NPOI grew 24% year-on-year to $153 million.
This is also an all-time high.
NPOI margin for NCR at 10.7%.
Many of you will remember the analyst meeting 2 years ago where we had thought we could hit 11% NPOI margins by sometime in 2014 and it's clear now that we will hit that margin rate much sooner than we originally expected.
Free cash flow a good story for us.
Now you have to exclude the $500 million pension discretionary contribution in this number but our overall free cash flow was up $61 million year-on-year in Q3 and we're up $65 million year to date.
So I'm pleased with the traction we have in free cash flow and I do expect that to get better in Q4 and significantly better in 2013.
We are on track to achieve our updated guidance.
Bob will give you our new guidance on the year.
Essentially we are holding our revenue guidance and improving in some areas like Financial bringing up our guidance in the Financial Services space and then we're bringing up our NPOI guidance on the year.
And pension remains on track.
I feel good about where we are now in pension Phase 2 and the work that's underway to achieve our Phase 3 aspirations sometime next year.
If you go to the next slide we talk about line of business highlights and I'll start with Financial.
When you adjust for currency it was a good quarter for Financial up 8% on a constant currency basis.
We continued to get traction in the national bank and regional bank segment in Q3.
We won 57 new customers in the quarter that we had not done business with for the preceding 3 years.
That now takes our total new customer win up over 425 and we're pleased with our market share gains in that particular area.
And we feel good about the progress we've made there and frankly the environment going into 2013.
One of the areas we focused on in the quarter and we've been focused on strategically is cash management.
The acquisition of Transoft helps us tremendously in is a $1 billion market or a potential $1 billion market.
And the acquisition of Transoft positions us well given it is a software asset and can be a SaaS asset to the regional banks as we move forward and obviously a key application particularly when banks are looking to reduce cost and cash in transit.
Some key developments.
The SDM or our Scalable Deposit Module it just continues to really help our company frankly win new business.
This innovation is now installed in over 10 000 ATMs and deployed in -- recently in SunTrust Bank here in the Georgia area and First Financial Bank.
And we continue to see good opportunities and traction both in ATMs and soon to be in the branch.
And we'll talk a bit more about that today.
And on the branch front APTRA Interactive Teller one of the featured products of our branch transformation strategy is going quite well.
We won some new customers in the quarter.
We feel good about that space and that is a space you'll hear more about going into 2013 and beyond because we're encouraged about the potential for both revenue and margin given it's a much more software-rich solution set for NCR.
And we have several pilots underway and you can see we're winning new business in an adjacent market frankly that's bigger than the ATM market.
Moving on to Retail.
Retail had a good operating income quarter and we're beginning to get very constructive about Retail.
We're feeling good about Retail generally.
Self-checkout as a solution in that segment grew 25% year-on-year in the quarter.
And we are seeing strong momentum both in orders and backlog in Retail.
We had a good Q3 in orders and we're going to have a good Q4.
We had some big wins in the quarter in the Retail space.
We also continued to invest in and roll out Silver.
Silver remains on target.
We now have several hundred customers.
We continue to pilot the technology.
We continue to build an infrastructure to support the technology and build out our distribution capabilities.
And we're hopeful that we're going to close and announce shortly a large office retailer who will be putting Silver in their stores in over 1 000 stores or near 1 000 stores starting in November in a prominent section on an endcap in a store.
The Hospitality business is doing well.
I'm very pleased with this particular line of business.
They were the standout I think in the quarter for us in many ways.
Our revenue was close to $130 million as you can see.
But as I referenced earlier our Software-as-a-Service application sites were up 40% year-on-year and we passed the 100 000 mark in application sites an outstanding accomplishment for us and terrific growth in what is a recurring revenue business at very high margin.
The synergies we anticipated along with their growth and continued execution resulted in very good operating margins in the business 17.8% in the quarter an increase of 160 basis points from Q2.
So sequentially not year-on-year.
We've had some big successes Arby's being one of them.
In the quarter we completed a rollout a large rollout in Q3; and a new platform called Pulse which you'll hear more about in subsequent calls a new innovation from NCR that is essentially focused on workforce productivity and mobile enablement of that productivity in a store.
And we've now got that platform in more than 1 000 restaurants installed.
And it's the fastest we've ever gotten to 1 000 sites with any product in Hospitality.
In the Emerging space it was a good quarter.
Revenues were up 10% on a constant currency basis.
Operating income margins grew 290 basis points so good improvement in profitability.
And travel in particular is beginning to really demonstrate signs of good growth.
We had nearly a 50% growth in orders in travel and we won some significant business in that space.
We signed on the T&amp;T front a 5-year very large services agreement with British Telecom.
That will help us extend our reach to multiple countries around the world.
And in the mobile space in travel we are now well over 2 million downloads a month of our mobile application that enables people to essentially download a 2D barcode to their phone and for passengers to board at the airport using a mobile device or smartphone.
So those are some of the key highlights of the industries.
Again Peter will get into them in more detail in a moment.
But let me switch you now over to a quick update on Radiant.
I promised you a year ago that I would come back to you a year into the integration and give you a report card and I'm pleased to tell you that I am excited about the opportunity to share with you what I think is excellent progress.
I couldn't be more pleased with the impact the Radiant acquisition has had on NCR not just from a revenue point of view a gross margin expansion point of view but talent and culture as well.
And we continue to see good progress in the business and the synergies that we bring to the table to Radiant are equally exciting.
Our global platform as an example really allows us to now participate in opportunities we otherwise could not in years past.
But you heard about some of the numbers in Hospitality.
If you just take Radiant out of that in the quarter they did $112 million and $20 million in OI.
That's all-in operating income inclusive of G&amp;A cost and expenses.
So looking at them as a standalone business they would have generated $20 million in operating income.
We talked about synergy realization.
Both cost and now revenue on track and SaaS earlier.
If you think about our initial objectives with Radiant and the lens we used to integrate them it was always about business continuity retention of key talent and customer loyalty and satisfaction meaning every decision we make uses those 3 principles of the lens.
And the objectives were along those lines to achieve some level of cross-selling benefits which we are doing to make sure that the global platform of NCR could be used to extend their business which is going well; and then of course to execute financially which of the team is doing quite well; and then to make sure we add to our recurring revenue stream high-margin revenue opportunities that are very sticky and frankly add a lot of value to our customers in their software platform and SaaS applications do just that.
So net-net this probably couldn't have been done any better so far.
I couldn't be more pleased with the success of this particular acquisition.
And I feel good about the integration process and the contribution that they have made and will continue to make to NCR.
If you flip the chart one of the things we've not allowed ourselves to slip on is operational execution.
When you are driving a high-growth strategy you can sometimes see the foundation of your company slip at bit in areas that are important and that is to be pragmatic and focused on the fundamentals daily blocking and tackling.
And I'm very proud of the NCR team and what they have done so far.
And Q3 is another great example of the skill set this organization has to be able to in a 3-dimensional way focus on growth and do it in a responsible way.
We talked about acquisition integration.
Free cash flow very good performance on the part of the team largely as a result of excellent working capital focus both in terms of DSOs which are down 4 days and also inventories.
Our turns were some of the best we've seen and we also kept inventory at a relatively low level despite needing more for higher growth.
So I compliment both the finance organization and the operations team for that performance.
We continue to keep a lid on expenses where -- I think carefully spend our money at NCR where we need to in terms of making investments areas like services in Silver are areas where they're making investments and then to continue to be responsible relative to making sure we're holding down expenses and driving up productivity where we need to.
On the productivity front the CI team continues to do a great job.
We are on track to achieve our $100 million in savings this year.
And as you all know we have a variety of programs underway both in each function and then across functions to achieve those CI savings.
And by December 31 2012 we will now have about 14% of our entire employee base CI-certified which is a big accomplishment in terms of the D&amp;A that you need to have going forward to maintain this fundamentals focus and this -- the excellence that one needs to have as you drive a growth strategy.
And we now have 30-plus master black belts 100-plus black belts 700-plus green belts and 2 200-plus yellow belts.
And all of those folks are doing a great job in making sure that our processes are lean our cost structure is appropriate and our quality is higher.
Moving now to pension Slide 7 in your deck.
I won't remind you of our Phase 1 approach.
You were all well aware of that.
We announced that in April 2010.
Phase 2 is well underway.
We have already of course as you all know have secured $600 million in 10-year bonds issued at I think the lowest rate in history for a company with our rating.
We contributed $500 million to the pension.
We had immediate savings of some deadweight costs like PBGC premiums in this year.
And we -- as you know I've done a lump sum offer to our term-vested employees and their processes still underway and we will know the results of that sometime in mid-November.
We also have begun the process of working towards Phase 3 and aspects of that we've talked about some of which includes moving forward with our international pensions and what actions can be taken there to reduce risk and volatility actions with regard to our retiree population and ultimately the annuitization of the NCR pension plan.
We have done a number of things to get to that state and begin to work towards that process.
A lot is underway and I feel good about our progress and think that we'll begin to talk to you in more detail about next steps in -- vis-à-vis Phase 3 sometime in 2013.
With that let me turn the call over to Peter Leav and he'll give you a little bit more color on the lines of business.
Peter? Thank you Bill.
As Bill mentioned Q3 revenues increased 6% on an as-reported basis and 9% on a constant currency basis.
Excluding the impact of the timing of orders in Brazil total global orders in Q3 were down 4% on a constant currency basis.
Quarter-ending backlog was up 7% constant currency versus last year's Q3.
Given our current outlook for Q4 orders we expect total year-end backlog to be up approximately 10% on a constant currency basis.
As a reminder orders do not include hospitality consumables or customer services.
In Financial Services our customers around the world remain enthusiastic about our technologies and solutions and continue to see NCR as a critical business partner that can help them improve customer service levels deploy converged multichannel solutions and distinguish them from the competition.
Overall the business is healthy and new technologies that help point the way to branch transformation serve as an underlying driver for ongoing demand for our solutions.
Branch transformation can ultimately be larger than the ATM business and we are extremely pleased with the results of current pilots underway.
One solution under the umbrella of branch transformation is our APTRA Interactive Teller which incorporates integrated 2-way video conferencing capabilities that give bank customers access to a live teller capable of delivering a multitude of in-branch transactions both during and after typical branch hours.
APTRA Interactive Teller is securing new wins for us.
The FirstOntario Credit Union became the first Canadian financial institution to deploy APTRA Interactive Teller while Dollar Bank will be deploying the technology in multiple locations in Pittsburgh.
Furthermore we just announced wins at LowellBank in Massachusetts and Salin Bank in Indiana.
APTRA Interactive Teller will enable these institutions to provide more personalized services to their customers around the clock and can run more efficient branch operations.
Scalable Deposit Module or SDM is another advanced technology that continues to help our customers meet the changing needs of their customers.
SDM lets consumers deposit both cash and up to 50 checks in any orientation via a single deposit slot.
Over 10 000 SDM-enabled ATMs have been deployed in the U.S.
since we introduced the technology in 2012.
SDM wins during the quarter include SunTrust Bank who will be deploying SDM-enabled ATMs in over 1 600 locations; and First Financial bank who will be replacing their fleet of over 150 machines in Ohio Indiana and Kentucky.
SDM and APTRA Interactive Teller are great examples of how NCR helps financial institutions as they seek to reshape their branch operations to better serve customers and capture improved productivity and cost gains.
We are also driving this transformational change through new technologies such as our automated recycling technology one example being our teller cash recycling solution or TCR.
TCR offers fluid movement of cash from location to location within the branch for both tellers and banking customers.
Spending less time on cash movement will free up time to spend with customers and moving more discreetly and efficiently will help drive increased transaction privacy.
Affinity Plus Federal Credit Union the largest non-bank financial institution in Minnesota will be piloting this technology as it seeks to deliver a unique and convenient experience to its customers.
The American Bankers Association ABA recently endorsed our ATM and branch transformation solutions citing our ability to deliver cost reductions increase operational efficiencies deliver an improved consumer experience and provide a platform for financial institutions to help grow their sales.
We also received important recognition from Vantiv who recently certified our APTRA Edge multivendor ATM software on its network.
Vantiv has been a partner of NCR for many years and its certification will help financial institutions realize the benefits of a single platform and offer a more consistent and deeper consumer experience across their self-service networks.
Finally we recently acquired Transoft one of the global leaders in cash management software for financial institutions.
Transoft's cash management software enables businesses to optimize their cash requirements and reduce costs related to cash-handling processes.
NCR will greatly strengthen our cash management capabilities as we integrate Transoft software and SaaS-based products into our existing Financial Services offers.
This acquisition is directly tied to our strategy with respect to adjacencies and building our software capabilities and grows our available market by an estimated $1 billion.
One of the key attributes of NCR is the diversity of our businesses both from a geographic and line of business standpoint.
As we stated on our 2 previous calls we believe our Retail segment is showing signs of improvement.
In Retail we are seeing a transformation in how stores are managed and operated how we're innovating in ways that will help drive that transformation.
As Bill mentioned we expect to see Retail recovery continue to gain steam as we move through 2013.
We are making important innovation investments in our Retail offerings with a focus on software.
One example of this is the recent integration of VendorNet's StoreNet In-store Pickup fulfillment technology with NCR's Advanced Store POS software.
This new functionality will enable retailers to effectively integrate their online and in-store inventory and deliver improved customer experiences through in-store pick-up and return and exchange services for purchases made online.
Our investment of an incremental $10 million in Silver which we announced in Q2 is paying off as we're getting a great response.
Silver marks our return to the small business market where so much of NCR's history and legacy resides.
We have recently introduced additional features including updated inventory management functionality enhanced reporting and more email marketing tools.
These new enhancements will give small business owners using Silver more tools that are necessary to compete in today's increasingly competitive business environment.
As our newest technologies gain traction and provide promise for the future we are also continuing to invest in our self-checkout technologies which continue to steadily penetrate the Retail landscape.
A recent survey we conducted demonstrated that shoppers appreciate the speed and efficiency gains provided by self-checkout and are eager to have self-checkout options available at additional Retail segments.
This feedback is very consistent with our self-service thesis and we continue to see indications of a pent-up investment cycle by Retail customers.
Our third core vertical is Hospitality which continues to generate excellent results and customer activity remains robust.
Our market-leading point-of-sale hardware and suite of SaaS offerings are enabling restaurant operators to strengthen their operations while at the same time enhancing multiple aspects of the consumer experience.
The business model of recurring revenue driven by additional SaaS application sites continues to drive profitable revenue for the company.
Looking now at our Emerging Industries.
In the Telecom and Technology vertical we signed a 5-year agreement with British Telecom to provide delivery and integration services for their multivendor Converged LAN Connect and IPT solution for enterprise customers in excess of 100 countries.
Our services team will provide BT with the ability to a offer a more extensive integrated and consistent solution set globally.
In travel wins such as the Oman Airport infrastructure and systems integration project leverage NCR's understanding of airports and airport systems and our network technology capabilities.
As Bill mentioned we also delivered more than 2 million boarding passes last month alone via a SaaS-based application that is pay-per-click.
We also delivered more than 500 000 clicks with Fandango via SaaS-based 2D barcode.
Finally our services business experienced a strong third quarter benefiting from the incremental $10 million investment announced in Q2 with revenues up 6% supported by continued growth in attach rates and file value.
Services-related revenues are a key component of our transition to becoming a solutions-based company that generates profitable revenue and growth via software SaaS and services offerings and we will continue to invest in service delivery capability.
In summary we are successfully executing across our core product groups through innovation and solid sales execution and driving higher-margin software and services revenue.
The entire NCR team is operating with a disciplined focus on leveraging our experience and expertise to develop and introduce high-value solutions and technologies.
We continue to help our customers achieve their sales cost and productivity goals while also helping them to differentiate themselves from their competition and focus on their customers.
I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Peter.
NCR's total reported revenue in the second quarter was $1.44 billion up 6% versus Q3 2011 and up 9% on a constant currency basis.
We reported GAAP income from continuing operations of $58 million or $0.35 per diluted share.
This compares to GAAP income from continuing operations of $23 million or $0.14 per diluted share in Q3 2011.
NCR's results from continuing operations include special items in both periods.
Excluding pension and special items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.64 per share in Q3 2012 versus $0.57 in Q3 2011.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effect of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release and the supplementary non-GAAP materials in the slides that Bill referred to earlier that reconcile our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q3 2012 gross margin was 27.3% up 260 basis points from 24.7% in the prior year period resulting from higher product and services sales favorable customer and product mix including significantly more software and the continued successful implementation of cost-reduction initiatives.
And operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were approximately 16.7% as a percent of revenue due to continued investment in sales and R&amp;D.
Non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $153 million in the third quarter compared to $123 million in the prior year period an increase of 24%.
Segment operating margins for Financial Services slightly decreased to 10.1% versus 10.5% mainly due to an increased mix of revenues from emerging markets and investment in services and R&amp;D.
Retail Solutions increased to 6.7% from 4.1% mainly due to a favorable mix of revenue including more software.
Hospitality increased to 17.8% from 13.9%.
And Emerging Industries increased to 23.4% from 20.5% mainly due to a favorable mix of revenue and lower service delivery costs.
Other expense was $7 million in Q3 2012 which is mainly related to interest expense.
Income tax expense was $23 million in the third quarter compared to income tax expense of $2 million in Q3 2011.
Excluding the effect of pension and nonrecurring items the third quarter 2012 effective tax rate was 27% compared to 23% in Q3 2011.
NCR's full year 2012 effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 26% better than the initial forecast of 27%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Cash on hand at September 30 2012 was $581 million up from $377 million at June 30 2012.
Total debt of $1.46 billion at the end of the quarter increased $722 million from Q2 2012 due to $150 million for the incremental credit facility and $600 million for the issuance of the high-yield bond the proceeds of which were primarily used in the execution of Phase 2 of our pension strategy.
Moving to the cash flow statement.
NCR had $400 million of cash used in operating activities in Q3 2012 compared to $6 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the $500 million discretionary contribution that we made to the U.S.
qualified pension plan during the quarter free cash flow was $16 million in Q3 2012 up $61 million from the prior year period.
We continue to deliver excellent performance with our working capital.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures property plant and equipment in addition to capitalized software.
The company still expects free cash flow of $100 million to $150 million for the full year excluding the discretionary contribution previously mentioned.
I'd like to conclude by discussing our full year guidance.
Full year 2012 revenue growth expectations include services and are on a constant currency basis.
We are raising revenue guidance for our Financial Services and Hospitality lines of business.
In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow 8% to 10% up from the previous guidance of 7% to 9%.
In Hospitality we now expect full year revenues to be in the range of $505 million to $515 million up from the previous guidance of $490 million to $500 million.
In Retail despite the momentum gained from improved order performance in Q3 and the strong backlog position entering Q4 we expect revenue growth to decrease in the low single digits versus our previous guidance of breakeven.
We are optimistic that Retail is recovering and will position us for a fast start in 2013.
In our Emerging Industries line of business we now expect revenues to be up low single digits compared to our previous guidance of up 7% to 12%.
In terms of total revenue we are maintaining our revenue guidance at 11% to 13% on a constant currency basis.
This is a good example of driving growth through an improved diversification of revenue streams that Peter and Bill discussed previously.
In terms of profit we now expect our full year 2012 NPOI to be in the range of $580 million to $590 million up from our previous guidance of $570 million to $585 million.
As a reminder full year guidance includes an approximate $10 million incremental investment in the back half of the year in customer services and a $10 million investment in our Silver business as discussed in our Q2 earnings call.
As a result of Phase 2 of our pension strategy we have more interest in Q4.
And as a result we are increasing our estimate of other expense from $40 million to $45 million for the full year 2012.
I also previously mentioned that we have improved our full year operational tax rate from 27% to 26%.
And finally on operational EPS although we have higher interest expense and a more dilutive share count than originally forecast we are maintaining our guidance for the full year at $2.40 to $2.47 per share based on the improved NPOI and the better full year tax rate.
Now I will turn the call back over to Bill for closing comments.
Thank you Bob and thank you Peter.
Well as I mentioned in the upcoming statements or the original statements I made about the quarter I'm pretty pleased with how Q3 shaped up for the company.
We had solid revenue growth.
I'm particularly pleased in terms of where we are going and the progress we've made on gross margins.
Our focus in terms of shaping our revenue stream for tomorrow more software more recurring high-margin revenue is on track and in some cases ahead of our expectations.
We are pleased with the increasing guidance vis-à-vis NPOI and in doing so making investments in the business we know will pay dividends long term and with some headwinds a higher share count being one of them and higher interest expense being the other.
We're generating more cash as an organization.
That to me is always an important -- or the important metric in running a company.
And I feel great about the kind of cash flow we'll be able to deliver next year.
And operationally this company is performing quite well across the board.
On the balance sheet we're on the right path vis-à-vis pension to continue to de-risk and also to improve volatility going forward and we'll be better positioned next year to take the next steps.
With that we'll go to questions.
Thanks.
Operator please open up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Katy Huberty.
Research Division</strong> Great quarter on a tough environment.
I just want to ask about order growth in Retail and ATMs.
How did it compare to the single-digit growth last quarter if you exclude Brazil? And then specifically on the Retail business you talk about 5 big customer wins this quarter improving order and backlog growth.
What is the offset in the business that's causing the downtick in growth for the year as you look to the fourth quarter? Yes.
The way I'd characterize it for you Katy is Financial Services when you kind of strip out everything and you look at it in a company level I think the company level number is more telling it was -- we're down slightly year-on-year.
But again very difficult compares.
And frankly the order volume we're seeing in Q4 is encouraging across the board but particularly in Retail.
Retail frankly was up on a like-for-like basis in Q3.
Again that's the second quarter in a row.
In the mid-single digits very solid.
And we're encouraged with the Q4 outlook for Retail as well.
So I think we're in good position in both markets.
I think Financial Services had a more difficult quarter than Retail but not by much.
And again the tough compare doesn't make that any easier.
Research Division</strong> And the reason you're not seeing an uptick in revenues in 4Q off of the better orders in Retail is just a matter of timing? It's all about timing yes.
Some of these deals will be large and they'll roll out over time.
In fact I suspect we'll be announcing one of them here shortly in the next week or 2 that you'll see and you'll recognize and you'll understand why it will take some time to roll out.
So these are big deals important deals for us and in great segments like self-checkout and they'll take several quarters to roll out.
Kartik Mehta.
Bill I was just wondering if you could provide a little bit more perspective on ATM growth by region just because I saw that on a constant currency basis the segment was up pretty good at 8%.
But I think you also made some comments that maybe Middle East Africa might be a little slow.
So just getting just your perspective on how the regions currently look.
Yes.
On the revenue side -- let me just give you some perspective and color here.
So if you look at region revenue and you look at the Americas for example in financial they were up slightly year-on-year.
It was a pretty good quarter actually for the Americas.
Europe was about flat year-on-year which is a good -- actually good outcome.
I think I've been signaling that Europe will be flat for the most part for a while now and that's been consistent.
On the AMEA side which is Asia Middle East and Africa the MEA portion of that is doing well.
It's very solid and continues to do well.
It's really portions of Asia that are a bit slower.
So the fact that we were down a bit in AMEA is largely as a result of some secular markets.
I think China was probably one of the ones that were down a bit for us but MEA was strong.
Japan Korea really not a lot to talk about there Kartik.
And then in Brazil just a very difficult compare because of the lumpiness of that business.
But from a revenue perspective it was up almost 350%.
So obviously it looks big and the dollars are getting a lot bigger.
But again it's lumpy.
And then just finally Bill on the margins on the ATM side year-over-year decline.
And one of the reasons you stated in the press release and you said so on the call was just the growth in the emerging markets.
And then it sounds like from the order perspective and everything you're doing the emerging markets are doing well there.
Would that imply that the margin pressure could continue into -- over the next couple of years as that business continues to grow? Well that's not the plan.
And I don't mean that to sound cute Kartik.
It's just the good news is that we're having great success in markets like Brazil and other emerging markets.
And we're still young from an operational point of view in these markets and learning how to be better and drive out cost.
I do think we're going to get better and better over time in places like India and in Brazil and other low-margin markets.
So I would not characterize these markets as having a dampening effect frankly on our gross margins going forward or operating margins going forward.
As we get better there and we compare ourselves to where we are today they're going to get better and in some cases significantly better.
So I feel good about the penetration we've had in the emerging markets.
I feel good that our team is working on cost improvement programs and taking ourselves from immaturity to maturity and our operational supply chain is an example.
And I feel good about the extension of our business into other spaces in these markets like branch automation being an example.
I mean just to put something in perspective for you there are 200 000 branches in China alone and that's a market we're just now getting into.
So I'd say that I think on an operating income basis what you're seeing in Q3 yes some mix of emerging market revenue that impacts us because it's at lower margin and we'll fix that but also the investments in services we made in the quarter negatively impacted the operating income margin.
And that won't go on forever as well.
But we are going to continue to invest there because we want to make sure our service levels are best in class and we're dedicated to doing that.
We think by developing a service capability that's really quite frankly a competitive advantage in the market we can gain even more share over time.
Ian Zaffino.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
Can you give us a little -- and I might have missed this because I hopped in a little bit late.
But can you give us an update on what OFAC [ph] is doing as far as internal investigations how you look at it when we should get a resolution what they found and kind of where you're leaning? It's Bill.
Yes at the front end of the call you missed it.
But Gavin kind of went through an overview and he can take you through that offline if you like.
We'd love to talk about this issue more than we can today but we want to respect the process underway.
We want to respect the fact that we're working with the regulators on closing this out.
We did -- by the way we do think we're getting closer to the end of the internal investigation.
So we feel good about that.
So ultimately I think the best option is to talk with Gavin after the call and he'll kind of run you through the script.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But basically -- I mean I can pull it up myself.
But basically I mean the resolution is something that we should expect in the next call it 3 to 6 months? Or is it something that we should expect to drag on for longer than that? So the goal is to have the internal investigation done the independent internal investigation on our side shortly.
So I think 3 to 6 months is reasonable.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then help me square the circle a little bit.
We've seen some of your competitors report less-than-stellar results and yours have been significantly better.
Maybe just a different way maybe help us understand how the market is growing where the market is growing and how you're growing vis-à-vis the market and kind of what's helping that or what's aiding that? So I think both myself and Peter will take this one on.
First of all I think what is important to recognize about NCR is the diversity of the businesses we are in and the number of industries we're in and how big they have become.
This is a message for my team.
I don't think they get enough credit for the strategic execution over the many years we've been working on our plan together here to build a very diverse business that can if needed withstand any particular issues in any geography or industry.
So we're not if you will so sensitive to an industry that may move in a different direction or a particular geography.
Secondly as it relates to financial in particular first of all I have a lot of respect for Diebold and Wincor and all of our competition in that space and I think they're great companies.
I want to say that at the outset.
But they are niche competitors in a given industry for us.
And they're international competitors when we're a global company meaning most of our competition is competing with us in key markets.
For example you might find one of them just a European-based company another just really a U.S.
and Brazilian-based company.
NCR is a global platform in financial.
We also have executed well with regard to market share gains to be very candid with you and we're proud of that.
We've put a lot of focus on gaining more share in the Financial Services space and the team under Peter's leadership has executed brilliantly particularly in the Americas and the U.S.
So when it comes to individual markets we have competitors in each one of these markets.
We are very focused on them.
We're quite a competitive culture here and we have a great deal of respect for them and understand on any given day that we have to have enough healthy paranoia as a culture to really get focused in a way that gives us the best odds of winning.
I also think we have great innovation great technology.
I think we have a clear lead vis-à-vis innovation in the industries we serve.
We spend a lot more time and effort on R&amp;D today and on innovation.
We have regained our proverbial fastball as a company in innovation and it's showing up.
SDM is a good example of that in the Financial Services space and helped us gain share here as well.
You can see an example of that in every industry we have.
But I feel -- I do feel good about the execution of the company too.
And I would be remiss before I turn it over to Peter to say this is a good team.
It's a good executive team and a good leadership team and they execute quite well and a strong team and a cohesive team.
And we work closely together as a group and have done a good job of driving growth and not letting expenses or operational execution slip in the process.
Peter? I think just to echo a few comments and add a few we've been very focused on the strategy in Financial and much of that had to do with the opportunities that we saw globally from a market share gain perspective.
So Bill talked a bit earlier about hundreds of new accounts in the U.S.
market.
And as Bill outlined much of that had to do with technology as we discussed SDM and other technology that you'll continue to see on the branch side that continues to help us differentiate ourselves and our customers differentiate themselves.
We also have been very focused on market share gains as you all know in Brazil more recently in India which has been a big focus for us and in Latin America.
So that continues to be a key area for us within the confines of financial.
But I think looking at the company the balance and the broad portfolio we talked about Radiant contribution our bullishness on Retail and where we're headed the travel business continuing to really make strides.
And I think one other key differentiator is we are a truly global services organization that cover the gamut and that's continuing to serve us well.
So just a few additional comments on differentiation.
Zahid Siddique.
Inc.</strong> I have a couple of questions.
One in your ATM business did your margins get impacted by a higher portion of regional banking business? Or was the margin compression mainly from emerging markets? That's my first...
Let me answer the first one Zahid.
The answer is no.
We had a good regional mix in the quarter frankly.
So -- and by the way regional bank revenue was up 60% year to date.
So we had a good mix in the quarter.
We are having great success on the year and that does help us.
This particular quarter the margins were slightly down as a result of a higher mix coming from emerging markets like India like Brazil in particular and of course the investments we decided to make proactively in services which were significant and obviously would hit the Financial Services line of business in terms of contribution more than others.
Inc.</strong> How much was the regional revenue up in the quarter? I don't know the answer.
Do you know the answer to that? Largely flat to up slightly in the quarter in just Q3 Zahid.
Inc.</strong> Yes yes.
And then I might have missed this did you mention the ATM orders for Q3? No we did not.
No we did not.
Inc.</strong> Is that something that you can mention? I think on an overall basis what we're trying to get focused on Zahid is the company's overall orders.
What's happening I think for us and for you that you need to be mindful of is while orders is a very important metric it's becoming less relevant because what's not included in the orders metric for example orders for consumables orders for Radiant for Hospitality and orders for other areas of the business like services and customer services.
So we're getting a bit more cautious about using it for each of the lines of business because it's not necessarily reflective of the future quite that well.
But I would say this about Financial Services.
I think the company is in good position.
We wouldn't be raising guidance on revenue if we didn't feel comfortable about our position on the year.
And there's no question that to some extent it slowed down a bit around the world.
But we're also encouraged about what can happen in 2013 particularly in branch transformation.
Matt Summerville.
Research Division</strong> Bill just to your last comment I'm still not sure I understand what you said when you mentioned that orders aren't necessarily reflective of the future.
Can you help me understand that? And then for a number of quarters now you've actually given pretty good order granularity and it sort of looks to me at a time when things have slowed a little bit you don't want to give that granularity anymore.
And I would sort of argue that you can have it both ways.
I don't think you can have it both ways Matt.
We're not trying to be cute.
I think that when you look at the order numbers for the company and you look at the order numbers for Financial there's a lot not included in there.
And we want to be careful we don't mislead you with regard to what's occurred in the quarter and what's in backlog and what's going forward.
So if you look at NCR we're giving you NCR order numbers.
We're kind of telling you where everything is landing for the company in aggregate so you can understand the company outlook for orders and revenue even though the company outlook for orders again does not include any activity in Radiant or consumables or customer services.
So it's not picking and choosing per se it's starting to redefine a bit the metrics we use to define our success as a company and what we want to give you going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
From a regional standpoint can you give some sort of granularity -- I mean well here.
I'll just ask it this way.
So basically you've gone from giving a lot of order data to just giving the total company and that's the way it is going forward even though you've consistently mentioned that your historical order data doesn't include consumables doesn't include Radiant and Hospitality.
I still don't get this change.
Well if you can -- if you look at our results this quarter Matt it's pretty simple.
At the end of the day we had a great quarter.
And last quarter when we gave you order information about Financial it didn't look so good but we're raising guidance for Financial.
So as you can see it's not reflective of the business.
So we're not trying to not give information to be less transparent we're actually trying to give information to be more transparent about NCR and NCR's success.
So the information we gave in the past was for example in regionals which I just gave I think by the way was to give you a sense for success we're having in a segment that we were not really participating in.
And now we're quite mature in that segment.
We're doing quite well.
We've had a number of customers that have moved over to NCR.
So again we think that it's important to make sure you have enough information to model out what the company's future looks like.
But in financial had I gave you last quarter's numbers you would have thought this quarter might not have been so good and our guidance might have come down but it didn't.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last one and then I'll hop off.
Just sticking with regionals when do you think that group of banks or that market segment starts to come back and go down the road in a more firm fashion towards deposit automation? And what's your assessment of how ready their back office is for that if you will? I think in the regional space Matt you're going to continue to see steady implementation in deposit automation.
We are seeing it.
We're experiencing it.
So it hasn't stopped.
I think that it depends upon your size though frankly.
Small institutions credit unions and small banks may not move as aggressively as a result of productivity gains or labor arbitrage or transaction migration simply because the math doesn't work for them.
The larger you get the more the math works for you.
There are about 150-ish thousand ATMs left out there to upgrade in that segment and when you combine nationals and regionals together.
I think what people tend to take a look at is about half of that space being essentially the market for an Intelligent Deposit Solutions so call it 75 000 left to go.
And as I said in the past I think that that rolls out over the next few years call it 2013 '14.
And by the way I think you're also going to see the next generation of deposit automation start to roll out in '14 '15 for large banks.
So that's coming next.
Our final question is from Gil Luria.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple.
You talked a little bit about mobility but it seems to be a big area of focus.
Your acquisition of Radiant was very timely.
They were very early innovators in terms of introducing mobility in the Retail and the restaurant context.
Can you talk about how that changes your economics in those verticals? So if you have a large Retail or a large restaurant chain that tells you they want to extend their sales force or their servers to more of a mobile platform but at the same time buy less cash registers buy less of the one -- of the hardware that they're buying now how does that impact your economics? Is this a positive trend for you? What kind of products do you have to serve that population? It's a great question Gil because it's one of the areas we're focused on internally in terms of development of application.
So we cited today on the phone call the fact that we're now delivering about 2.1 million boarding passes a month for mobile check-in at the airport on NCR technology.
And we get -- the business model for that is we get paid about $0.11 per download.
Similarly the same business model is in place for Fandango where we're downloading about 0.5 million movie passes right now.
And that application alone will be rolled out across all vertical markets over the course of the next few years.
And there's various applications.
You can think of downloading a ticket to your phone to enter an arena a stadium a football game a soccer game a concert.
You can think about using it for rail and bus and mass transit.
You can think about using it for coupons in the Retail space to download mobile coupons.
You can think about it in a variety of different applications and we're working on all of those.
So the fact that the Mobiqa acquisition which was done a few years ago came with this unique IP and the growth of this space has on fire we think that we've got a good opportunity to take this technology across all lines of business including Hospitality to your point where Radiant is using this technology or will be using this technology for a variety of loyalty and couponing reasons.
Any other comments John on that? Sure Bill.
This is John Bruno.
I'd say that your question surrounded in addition to Bill's comment something about the endpoint it's impact potentially on point-of-sale itself potentially ATMs themselves and Financial and maybe even self-checkout.
And I'll answer your question this way.
As a platform if mobile's integrated into POS into our self-checkout and into our Financial Services included branch automation it actually adds greater value to those devices.
So we do not see a trend where many people talk about the absence of a point-of-sale terminal in a large retail environment or even in a mid-tier environment because mobile's been introduced into that space.
What we're finding is is that what people are looking for is integration and that integration is the innovation that we're delivering.
Because today whether it's promotions on a mobile phone or potentially even integration between you as a consumer in a restaurant interacting more directly with the point-of-sale platform to add items to your bill to see your bill in real time or ultimately to pay for your bill is driving more value.
It's optimizing more workflow but it is not it is not slowing down right now the amount of innovation that's going into the POS platform itself.
Now we see that over time change is based on segment but there's still a lot of rich client functionality that our Tier 1 and Tier 2 customers require in this space and they're looking for extensions with the mobile platform.
And we're working very hard to ensure that our POS software platform integrates not only in the hardware at front end but in the aisles with a mobile phone as well.
So that's really the trend we're on and it's still very early days in that space.
And my last point is it's not just the consumer.
We have as much demand for store associates management and others that want to use consumer devices in the aisle to do inventory check realtime check see what the performance a particular POS is doing self-checkout lanes and others.
So we're seeing a lot of integration which Bill mentioned a product called Pulse that we see has a very promising future because it extends operating analytics and customer intimacy and customer resource management across that platform.
That's where our focus is and we see a nice future to that integration.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-on you bid -- you built NCR Silver really mobile first and you're talking about having 2 600 sales reps contracted another 7 500 in the pipeline.
What's the nature of those sales reps? Are those your traditional Radiant distributors? Are those merchant acquirers? What's the nature of the sales reps that you referred to? Most of them initially Gil will be merchant acquirers.
We will have a retail channel up and running in Q4 for the Christmas season and the tax season and that retail channel will be announced we hope within the next 30 days or sooner than that.
We'll have a distribution channel made up of the following: merchant acquirers where most of the headcount that we talked about today are in that space; we will also have traditional distributors who sell to the small and medium-sized business so think about large Master VARs who have a great network of channel partners that sell into that space participate.
We'll use also online Internet-based retailers of whom we're talking to right now and we can't announce anyone yet in that space.
And then we'll have feet on the street.
We'll have NCR feet on the street and we'll go out there and on an inside sales and external sales basis cover some opportunities in dense urban areas.
There are no more questions.
Great.
Well thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you again in February.
Thanks for participating in today's call.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good afternoon.
Thank you all for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you do have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the NCR Vice President of Investor Relations Tracy Krumme.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you very much.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us on our Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will lead our conference call.
After Bill's opening remarks Peter Leav Executive Vice President and President Industry and Field Operations will update you on progress with respect to certain key initiatives.
Bob Fishman NCR's Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on our financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call Bill will be referring to a presentation that is posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor page of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on our website www.ncr.com.
For those of you listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of February 7 2013 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise this information included in the call whether as a result of new information or future results.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Bill.
Bill please go ahead.
Thank you Tracy and welcome to the team.
And thank you Gavin.
Gavin is in the room with us today doing a transition to Tracy.
And many of you know him he did a great job for our company.
So thank you Gavin.
I'm on Slide 3 and I'm on the Q4 2012 Key Takeaways slide.
Order growth in the quarter was strong largely as a result of great order growth in retail as well as travel.
And really helped us position ourselves in Q1 for a relatively good start with backlog up 11% in the traditional businesses.
Revenue growth of 3% exceeded our expectations in the quarter.
And we felt pretty good about that given the fact that we came into the quarter as we discussed on the prior call with backlog around flat at that time.
And that was driven largely by Hospitality up 43% year-on-year in the quarter.
So a great quarter for Hospitality.
NPOI solid quarter.
We achieved a record NPOI margin of 11%.
We feel good about that in the quarter.
Software had a good quarter.
And in particular SaaS which was up about 30% year-on-year.
And the quarter was solid for us and we'll talk about software as it relates to the year in a moment.
And good cash flow.
We were pleased with free cash in the quarter of $122 million largely as a result of excellent progress in working capital in the quarter.
Pension.
We did make an additional contribution to pension in the quarter of $100 million and we have landed in a position now where the total global underfunded status is about $440 million.
We'll talk more about pension in the presentation and also during the Q&amp;A.
On the full year next slide we had a good year.
I was really proud of the performance of the team this year.
In particular revenue growth up about 11% on a constant currency basis on the year and we fought through some euro headwinds throughout the year.
Gross margin is a great story for the company.
We're up 190 basis points year-on-year.
That's the third year in a row of triple digit expansion in gross margin.
And NPOI growth very very solid for us.
And again another record in terms of NPOI margin.
Here's the software story.
We talked about it.
We did exceed the expectations we set for you.
We feel good about it.
SaaS was up 124% year-on-year.
So very solid growth for SaaS.
EPS up 20% year-on-year and again thanks to Q4 solid free cash flow.
Next slide operating highlights.
We had share gains in the quarter and on the year.
In Financial Services share gains in nationals.
In Retail share gains in self-checkout.
Hospitality share gains internationally.
We felt good about those markets and feel good about the execution of the team on a global basis.
I like the diversity we're building as a company.
We have better industry diversity geographic and product.
And look while we're doing all of this we're investing.
We're investing in R&amp;D.
We're investing in services investing in our people and programs along those lines.
And look we're continuing to execute well while planting seeds for tomorrow.
In terms of M&amp;A a good quarter for us in terms of execution in Hospitality but the full year as well.
We're excited about Retalix and what they can bring to the company.
And we've made a couple of other software acquisitions primarily in Financial Services we think will add value to us in '13 namely uGenius and Transoft.
And we talked about Phase II of pension Bob will reference that more in his remarks.
But look we've done a good job on pension and we're in a great position as a company.
And as you'll read in the press release we did complete the internal investigations for OFAC and FCPA.
Next chart.
Okay.
Lines of businesses.
Some key highlights.
We talked about Financial.
Look it was a good year for Financial better first half than second half for that team but we feel good about our positioning in that market space.
Again continue to invest.
We continue to gain share in the national space and we stood up the company for success tomorrow in branch with some acquisitions.
And look you can read the key developments but we feel very good about some of the things that we've done in that business.
In Retail it was just a great quarter.
Retail had a terrific quarter for NCR.
We're very proud of the growth we had both in orders and backlog.
And that's a business that has great potential for us in '13 and beyond.
Bob will talk more about that when we talk about guidance.
Hospitality terrific.
It was a great year for that business.
Hardware software SaaS growth.
Great integration of the team.
All in all I'm very proud of that team.
And in the Emerging space it was a mixed story.
But overall solid profitability in that business.
On to Retalix the next chart.
We have completed the acquisition this week.
We feel good about that.
We are excited about the implications of Retalix in our Retail business profitability strategic nature of that business and what that can offer us in years to come.
So we'll give you more perspective of this throughout the call today but we are now beginning the integration process for that business.
Next chart pension.
Again Bob will cover this in more detail but we will be coming back to you midyear or so with what we're going to do next vis-à-vis pension.
We had a great Phase I execution solid Phase II and there will be a Phase III this coming year.
The focus we have is simple.
It's on continuing to reduce the liability continuing to reduce the underfunded continuing to improve cash flow.
And all in all continue to reduce deadweight costs.
We have for the most part put pension in a box.
We had a great 3 years.
We did what we said we were going to do and pension for the most part as a risk is significantly less if not fully eliminated at this juncture.
So we'll talk again more in detail about that and what we intend to do vis-à-vis Phase III in 2013.
As you look at the year ahead for us we're proud of the guidance that we were able to issue today.
We'll continue to focus on execution of our vision on continued investments in innovation and services.
And again I think this year will be more of a focus on legacy versus growth meaning you'll see us focused more on our balance sheet acquisition integration will feature prominently and of course pension.
We are on track with our 3-year goals that we laid out at Analyst Day.
In fact to some extent ahead of those goals.
And we do foresee relatively good growth across all of our lines of business and geographies this year.
We'll give you some more perspective in Q&amp;A but we feel good about it.
And then in terms of software we're excited to outlook a $700-plus million software business for NCR in '13.
And then of course we'll get Retalix done invested.
Same with Radiant and again pension will be something we'll talk more about in the coming months.
With that let me throw that over to Peter.
Peter? Thank you Bill.
As Bill mentioned Q4 orders increased 15% and quarter ending backlog was up 11% over the prior year period.
The strong order growth we experienced during the fourth quarter positions us well for a solid start to 2013.
Before providing you with an update on developments across each of our verticals I want to take a moment to talk more broadly about our business.
Technology is having an undeniable impact on how consumers interact with business and conduct transactions.
The proliferation of smartphones and tablets which is driving the omni-commerce movement is steadily changing the consumer shopping experience.
NCR is well-positioned through organic innovation acquisitions and strategic alliances to win in this space.
We have consistently invested in hardware software and services offerings to address this dynamic shift.
Our recently announced strategic alliance with PayPal is consistent with this approach.
PayPal is the leader in online and mobile payments with more than 117 million active accounts across 190 markets.
Our partnership is a natural fit as it allows us to integrate NCR's broad retail and hospitality footprint with PayPal's market-leading digital payment technology.
Together with PayPal we will be able to provide restaurants and retailers with a simple and powerful way to offer consumers a rich mobile and digital payment experience.
The initial stage of our partnership will include the integration of PayPal Mobile payment options into NCR's Mobile Pay application and online ordering solution which will enable PayPal payments at over 60 000 sites using NCR's Aloha point-of-sale technology.
We are excited about this partnership as it provides us with a solid opportunity to increase our software Software-as-a-Service and services revenues in both the Hospitality and Retail verticals.
Turning now to our lines of business.
Financial Services revenue was up 1% on an FX-neutral basis in Q4 and up 9% on an FX-neutral basis in 2012.
NCR continues to be the leading supplier of ATMs globally a position we have held for 27 consecutive years.
We have maintained this leadership position by winning share through the differentiated value we provide to our customers.
Our expansive global coverage and industry expertise enables us to quickly address the changing needs of our clients and innovate rapidly to address local market requirements around the globe.
We understand the importance of transforming the customer experience and have increasingly focused on solutions for emerging markets.
The State Bank of India which is India's largest bank chose to deploy 600 NCR SelfServ 32 intelligent deposit ATMs across sites in India.
This is the country's single largest order for cash deposit ATMs.
These ATMs will empower the bank to make everyday life easier for its customers by migrating high-volume deposit transactions from the branch to the ATM.
This will not only reduce long queues at the branch but will also give customers the flexibility to execute cash deposit transactions beyond banking hours.
NCR continues to be a leader in bringing new technologies to new markets delivering the next generation of productivity improvements for financial institutions while providing convenience to customers.
In Canada close to 1 billion checks are written annually.
80% of small businesses in Canada use checks because there is no effective electronic alternative.
On October 1 2012 new rules came into effect that enable image-based check processing.
By year end NCR has secured commitments from 2 Canadian customers for our market-leading APTRA Passport remote deposit capture solutions that will allow checks to be deposited directly from consumers' mobile smartphones.
To help us accelerate our branch and retail network transformation capabilities we acquired uGenius Technology in December a pioneer and market leader in omni-channel video banking software.
UGenius has been NCR's partner in the development and deployment of our APTRA Interactive Teller solution which allows consumers to conduct remote assisted teller transactions at an ATM while speaking to a live teller who has control of the machine.
This transformational technology platform is critical for retail banks that are challenged with today's branch operating cost and it can deliver up to 95% of all traditional teller transactions.
Banks of all sizes across NCR's domestic and international markets are endorsing this assisted service solution to reduce operational costs expand service distribution and extend banking hours for consumers.
NCR has blurred the lines between the full-service and self-service.
We understand the importance of moving in this direction as banks look to meet the growing needs of their customers.
Our financial solutions enable a rich brand differentiated experience that is capable of extending service and flexible banking hours.
An example of the value of our branch transformation portfolio is Partners Federal Credit Union which serves the financial needs of over 100 000 members including The Walt Disney Company cast members.
Partners FCU has selected a range of NCR branch transformation solutions.
They have chosen our SelfServ ATM and Scalable Deposit Module and they plan to deploy our Teller Cash Recycling to automate the cash handling process in the branch.
They have also selected our unique APTRA Interactive Teller technology to combine the best of video collaboration and remote transaction processing to provide expanded banking hours at both branch and park locations.
Branch transformation along with cash management optimization software that we acquired as a result of our acquisition of Transoft were 2 major contributors to our growth during the year.
This growth enables us to expand our addressable market and grow our margins.
Customers are embracing our new software and SaaS-based products as they look to drive cost efficiency in the cash process drive higher channel availability and generate new revenue streams.
We are utilizing APTRA OptiCash to deliver managed services to our customers.
Customers who use our solutions save an average of $1 000 per ATM per year.
Cash management is an example of NCR investing in our customer's business with a focus on improved wallet share through great value delivery.
We are pleased that in a highly competitive process one of the world's largest banks invested in this solution during the fourth quarter.
Turning to our Retail segment.
Fourth quarter revenues increased 2% while achieving record order and backlog growth.
As Bill mentioned we are enthusiastic about our Retail business and expect to see accelerated growth this year.
We continue to focus on successfully growing the software component of our Retail business.
Software growth is a key priority driving our innovation investments in our market-leading portfolio.
We see increasing demand for our solutions and believe the Retalix acquisition will help enable our Retail growth plan in 2013.
The marketplace is speaking and our customers are very enthusiastic about us collaborating as one company.
The addition of Retalix's leading solutions puts us in a leadership position providing a comprehensive platform of omni-commerce solutions across a global distribution network.
The continued acceptance and demand for self-checkout solutions will be a major driver of growth in our Retail business as well.
Consumers are embracing advanced transaction technologies as they look for quicker and more convenient checkout experiences.
NCR is currently engaged in a large-scale deployment of new self-service checkout units in North America which is a strong testimony to growing self-service adoption.
NCR engages our subject matter experts from our professional services team to provide specific insights in key areas including user interface design configurations layouts and best practices as we strive to optimize the self-checkout experience for the consumer.
We continue to aggressively innovate and invest in other retail categories including small business and convenience stores.
In the small business market we are making progress in establishing NCR Silver as an innovative solution for small and medium businesses.
In the fourth quarter we increased NCR Silver's sales footprint through an agreement with Staples so that NCR Silver will be prominently displayed and available in select stores.
Just last week we announced that NCR Silver was going to be used at more than 600 locations of Cellairis the world's largest franchise mobile device accessory company.
We have also introduced a number of mobile technologies aimed at improving the shopping experience at convenience stores.
Our third core vertical is Hospitality.
Customer enthusiasm for our solutions remains strong across the globe and we are generating solid financial results.
Hospitality revenues grew 43% during the quarter.
As Bill discussed we have executed our integration plan successfully preserving our talent base while also driving efficiencies across the business.
Our point-of-sale and SaaS solutions are scoring wins among venue restaurant and theater operators.
Our Hospitality SaaS fourth quarter revenues were up 36% year-over-year and our application site install base was up 30% during the same period.
We continue to see growth and success due to the variety of solutions we offer such as marketing loyalty and gift card solutions online ordering theft deterrence and realtime reporting as examples.
Our realtime reporting solution gives insights into labor and sales performance by restaurant which helps our customers drive revenue growth improve customer service and drive efficiencies.
We have also introduced NCR Mobile Pay a new solution that lets restaurant patrons browse their bill reorder menu items alert their server and securely pay their bill using their smartphone.
This solution is designed to improve customer service and loyalty which will ultimately drive revenue growth.
We have plans to release additional SaaS solutions in the near future which will continue to build off of our current momentum.
In addition to driving value for our customers in software and SaaS offerings we have also built industry-specific point-of-sale solutions.
We recently launched several new solutions including our P1230 and P1530 point-of-sale terminals.
These terminals deliver increased processing power higher reliability and ease-of-use in a small footprint.
In addition their flexible design is tailored to meet the needs and space constraints of hospitality operations.
During the fourth quarter we secured a number of key deployments of our venue management platform.
By utilizing Venue Manager operators are able to better plan manage and run their events more efficiently and provide customers with an improved experience.
As an example we will be implementing Venue Manager at Hunter Stadium in Newcastle Australia providing the 33 000 capacity venue with realtime information from each of the 90 NCR point-of-sale terminals located throughout the venue's food and beverage outlets.
We will also be implementing our loaded ticket solution at Suncorp and Metricom stadiums in Australia.
Looking now at our Emerging Industries business.
Revenues decreased 16% in the fourth quarter and 3% for the full year due to a partial deduction of a customer contract.
Our Emerging Industries business can be lumpy due to the size of customer contracts.
We remain confident that we are well-positioned to capitalize on the large market opportunity.
Our travel business is steadily gaining momentum and we expect it to become more sizable during 2013.
The market response to our mobile electronic boarding pass technology remains highly enthusiastic and we are seeing strong deployments of that solution globally.
As more and more travelers use their mobile device to connect and transact with travel companies we will look to capitalize on this growing trend.
We are pleased by the recent win of Oman airport infrastructure and systems integration project which demonstrates our understanding of airports airport systems and airport infrastructure.
Air travel is key to the economic development of many regions in the world.
As a result of the growing middle class in developing markets more airports are being built to keep pace with an increasing number of air travelers and NCR is well-positioned to participate in this growth.
In the Telecom and Technology or T&amp;T vertical we secured a major win with a leading telecommunications company while also launching our managed IT domain services offering.
This offering enables support for remote monitoring and management of enterprise customers' IT environments as they transition from client server to cloud.
This service supports more than 3 000 products for many leading networking and IT vendors.
We see strong opportunity in this high-growth high-margin business.
To put this into perspective the T&amp;T vertical is roughly a $5 billion addressable market.
We are uniquely positioned to deliver services to telecoms systems integrators and technology OEMs for a number of reasons.
First we have a global servicing footprint that delivers consistency on a global basis.
Second we have unique multi-vendor capabilities to support over 200 OEMs which is particularly important to enterprises with heterogenous IT infrastructures.
And last we have deep relationships with top IT OEMs to ensure that we remain strong partners in services execution across their emerging and growing platforms.
Finally our services business continued its strong performance with revenues up 3% during the fourth quarter and 7% for the full year supported by new business wins and continued backlog growth.
Fourth quarter highlights include an agreement with SoloHealth to provide on-site repair services for thousands of self-service health care kiosks that are being deployed at retailers nationwide during the first half of 2013.
We also continue to receive meaningful third-party validation of our services capabilities as Gartner ranked NCR the global market share leader in the retail industry product support for 2011 based on product support revenue.
In summary the solid fourth quarter results provide evidence of continued business momentum across our core and emerging business verticals as well as NCR services.
Our performance is indicative of the success we are having diversifying across verticals global markets and product mix.
We are advancing our software and services strategy across each of our verticals while continuing to focus on execution and investing in our future with a commitment to innovation.
At the heart of NCR is a commitment to recognizing and addressing our customers' needs and providing them with advanced hardware software and services solutions that help them grow better serve customers and optimize their operating platforms.
We made significant progress executing on this strategy in 2012 and are pleased to be entering 2013 in a strong position.
I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Okay.
Thanks Peter.
NCR's total reported revenue in the fourth quarter was $1.64 billion up 3% versus Q4 2011 on a constant currency basis.
We reported a GAAP loss from continuing operations of $23 million or $0.14 per share which includes a onetime pension charge of $119 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This compares to GAAP income from continuing operations of $59 million or $0.37 per diluted share in Q4 2011.
NCR's results from continuing operations include special items in both periods.
Excluding pension and special items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.72 per share in Q4 2012 versus $0.66 in Q4 2011.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effect of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release and the supplementary non-GAAP material in the slides that Bill referred to earlier that reconcile our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q4 2012 gross margin was 26.4% compared to 26.5% in the prior year period.
This 10 basis point decrease was primarily the result of continued investment in our services business partially offset by a favorable mix of revenue and continued focus on cost.
For the full year of 2012 gross margin was 26.8% versus 24.9% in 2011.
This gross margin expansion of 190 basis points was primarily driven from higher software revenues and improved mix of business and continued focus on cost improvement initiatives.
Operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were approximately 15.3% as a percent of revenue in Q4 2012 compared to 15.7% in Q4 of the prior year.
The company continues to invest in sales and R&amp;D while reducing our overall G&amp;A expenses.
Non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $181 million in the fourth quarter compared to $173 million in the prior year period an increase of 5%.
For the full year of 2012 NPOI was $589 million up 22% from 2011.
At the beginning of 2012 we gave NPOI guidance of $560 million to $575 million.
The year-end result of $589 million is $29 million higher than the lower end of guidance and $14 million higher than the upper end.
Fourth quarter 2012 segment operating margins were as follows: Financial Services decreased to 10.7% versus 11.9% mainly due to an increased proportion of revenues from emerging markets and investments in services and R&amp;D; Retail Solutions increased to 9% from 5.2% mainly due to a favorable mix of revenue including more software; Hospitality decreased to 14.7% from 16.2% as the prior year number did not include the movement of accounts between Retail and Hospitality; and Emerging Industries decreased to 18.9% from 21.5% primarily driven by the lower revenue that Peter mentioned earlier.
Overall for the year Retail saw operating margin improvement of 210 basis points.
Hospitality improved by 70 basis points to 16.3% and Emerging Industries improved to 23% up from 20.6% in 2011.
Financial Services achieved an operating margin of 10% down slightly from the prior year due to continued investment in services and R&amp;D.
We continue to expect operating margin expansion in line with the estimates that we gave as part of our Analyst Day in May of 2012.
Other expense was $19 million in Q4 2012 which is mainly related to interest expense.
Income tax was a benefit of $1 million in the fourth quarter compared to expense of $30 million in Q4 2011.
Excluding the effect of pension and nonrecurring items the fourth quarter 2012 effective tax rate was 28% compared to 34% in Q4 2011.
NCR's full year 2012 effective tax rate was 25% better than the initial forecast of 27%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Cash on hand at December 31 2012 was $1.07 billion up from $581 million at September 30 2012.
Total debt was $1.96 billion at the end of the quarter.
The increases in cash and debt from Q3 2012 were due to the issuance of the $500 million 8-year bond in December the proceeds of which were primarily used in the acquisition of Retalix which closed yesterday.
Moving to the cash flow statement.
NCR had $100 million of cash generated in operating activities in Q4 2012 compared to $274 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the $100 million discretionary contribution that we made to the U.S.
qualified pension plan during the quarter free cash flow was $122 million in Q4 2012 compared to $229 million in the prior year period.
The decrease was primarily due to the timing of working capital improvement.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plant and equipment and additions to capitalized software.
The company generated free cash flow of $146 million for the full year excluding the discretionary pension contributions during the year.
This was at the high end of the $100 million to $150 million guidance we gave last year at this time.
We expect free cash flow for full year 2013 to be in the range of $200 million to $250 million up significantly from 2012.
This number includes pension contributions of approximately $135 million primarily for our international plan with no contributions to the U.S.
qualified plan due to the improvements in the underfunded position.
Total CapEx for the company will be about $215 million and depreciation and amortization will be approximately $212 million including roughly $77 million for the amortization of intangibles that are not included in NPOI.
Cash taxes are expected to be approximately $85 million in 2013.
Cash funding requirements for the Fox River environmental matter are expected to be a $40 million cash outflow in 2013.
And finally we'd expect working capital to be higher as revenues are expected to grow in 2013.
I'd like to conclude by discussing our 2013 full year guidance and providing an update on pension.
Full year 2013 revenue growth expectations include services and are on a constant currency basis.
In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow 2% to 4%.
In Hospitality we expect revenues to increase 15% to 18%.
In Retail we expect revenues to rise 22% to 25% driven by the momentum from improved order performance in Q4 the strong backlog position entering the year and the Retalix acquisition.
Retalix revenue is prorated from the acquisition date and includes an estimated reduction for purchase accounting.
Excluding the $250 million to $260 million revenue forecast for Retalix Retail revenues are expected to grow 7% to 9% in 2013.
We're optimistic that Retail is recovering and will position us for a fast start in 2013.
In our Emerging Industries line of business we expect revenues to be up 3% to 5%.
In terms of total revenue our guidance is 9% to 11% growth on a constant currency basis.
This is a good example of driving growth through an improved diversification of revenue streams that Peter discussed previously.
In terms of profit we expect our full year 2013 NPOI to be in the range of $695 million to $710 million.
This includes estimated NPOI for Retalix of between $35 million to $40 million.
As a reminder full year guidance excludes pension expense and M&amp;A related items.
As a result of Phase II of our pension strategy and the Retalix acquisition we expect higher interest expense in 2013 and as a result our estimated other expense is $100 million for the full year.
We expect our full year operational tax rate to be approximately 26%.
We are using a fully diluted share count of approximately 166 million shares for the year.
And finally on operational EPS our guidance for the full year is $2.65 to $2.75 per share based on the improved NPOI and the assumptions just mentioned.
As a reminder we are on track to deliver the guidance that we gave as part of our Investor Day in May of 2012.
Specifically we talked about a revenue CAGR of 7% to 9% from 2012 to 2015 and NPOI and operational EPS growth of 15% to 20%.
We are tracking towards our goal of achieving $3.65 to $4.25 per share in 2015 and between $400 million to $500 million of free cash flow in 2015.
Now for an update on pension.
We are very pleased with the results of the successful completion of Phase I and Phase II of our pension strategy.
We have done what we said we would do and we have had excellent success since we first announced Phase I of our pension strategy in April 2010.
You will remember Phase I was primarily about reducing the volatility of our pension plan.
We said we would move to approximately 100% fixed income in the U.S.
plan by the end of 2012 and that is what we have done.
This initiative has been completed and we have saved close to $100 million to $150 million in underfunding by undertaking this strategy.
But more importantly we have significantly reduced the volatility of the U.S.
pension plan.
In addition we have approximately 60% to 70% of our international plan assets invested in fixed income at year end.
In July of 2012 we announced Phase II of the pension strategy.
This is primarily focused on reducing the underfunded position of the U.S.
plan through a lump sum offer to deferred vested participants in Q4 of 2012.
Phase II was extremely successful.
We raised 10-year debt at a very attractive interest rate and reduced the underfunded position in the U.S.
by approximately $750 million.
This transaction was NPV-positive in excess of $100 million and eliminated a significant amount of administration fees PBGC premiums and other deadweight cost.
In December of 2012 we continue to de-risk the portfolio by contributing an additional $100 million into the U.S.
plan.
As a result our global underfunded position has improved over the year by approximately $880 million.
We ended the year with an overall underfunded position of approximately $440 million down from $1.32 billion at the beginning of the year.
While I believe that we have significantly de-risked pension within the company by moving to fixed income and reducing the size of the underfunded position there are still some additional initiatives that makes sense for the company to undertake.
We expect to announce Phase III of our pension strategy by the middle of the year.
Phase III will focus on reducing the remaining portion of the underfunded position addressing any remaining volatility and improving free cash flow.
This will be accomplished through a number of different actions.
We will continue to look at our U.S.
and international plans and review options that give us an economically positive result help improve free cash flow and reduce our underfunded position and overall pension liability.
We are also on track to move to mark-to-market accounting for our pension in 2013.
This projected accounting change will take our GAAP pension expense from $173 million excluding the onetime U.S.
settlement charge in 2012 to approximately $20 million in 2013 which is at the lower end of the $20 million to $40 million we projected earlier in 2012.
This change significantly reduces the difference in our GAAP to non-GAAP reporting and simplifies pension accounting for our investors.
Once again we are pleased with our progress so far.
We have addressed our biggest enterprise risk head on and eliminated the majority of the volatility and significantly reduced the underfunded position.
Our decisions have been economically sound and have had a meaningful impact on NCR.
And with that I will now open the call up for questions.
Okay operator you can now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Katy Huberty from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I don't think Radiant and Retalix are included in the 11% backlog growth number that you gave.
So is there a scenario that when you add those businesses you could actually do much better than the top end of the full year revenue growth range or does that backlog not fully convert in 2013? And what would be the other offsets? The backlog does not fully convert in the year Katy.
A good proportion of it does convert in the year but it's not 1 for 1.
Meaning if the backlog grows 11% you can grow the business 11% because you have to have that kind of backlog growth quarterly in order to maintain that kind of traditional or core line of business growth.
So I want to make sure you understand the backlog from that point of view.
It does give you a lift in the first quarter or 2 but the overall year is highly dependent upon keeping that backlog at double-digit kind of growth every single quarter which is of course what we focus on vis-à-vis orders which is why the order number is so critical to track.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then as a follow-up you pointed out Bill that Financial Services had a better first half than second half.
You exited 2012 with a lower growth rate.
How do you think about the new revenue streams like branch automation impacting 2013? Is that something that could impact the first half or is it more skewed to the second half of 2013 or is it even longer tailed than that? 2013 will be a year of pilots and small-scale production branch environments with a number of customers.
You'll see a bigger impact in fact a significant impact to revenues coming in in '14 and '15 in that space.
So consider '13 as kind of the step-up year for the future.
Meghna Ladha from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So your guidance for Financial for 2013 at 2% to 4% for -- so what are some of the key growth drivers? Are you seeing any specific areas where you're picking up market share in this segment? Yes I think we're doing a great job in picking up share around the world particularly Brazil would be one area I would focus on.
India would be the second area I would focus on.
We've had a concerted focused effort to win in the emerging markets over the long term.
Again it drives better balance to our revenues.
But importantly these are the big growth markets for ATMs as more of the mature markets stabilize and will mature over time.
So I would say in the international space India Brazil come to mind immediately as good growth markets.
Russia continues to be a great growth market for us where market share gains can be had.
And in the U.S.
we've done a terrific job in the nationals or midsized bank space so far the last 2 years and I continue to feel like we can gain share going forward.
If you were to look at Financial Services the real shift I think that's occurred in the last 12 months has been in that midsized bank space where ADA and regulatory compliance was driving revenues higher than secular growth would normally occur in those spaces.
So I think people are normalizing a bit in that space.
And as you can imagine the back half of this year going into next year your comps will be easier.
And as that market continues to rollout deposit assuming we're gaining share I feel good about the potential to continue to drive both success in terms of share gains but also growth in the long term.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving on to Retail so you won a big deal with Wal-Mart in self-checkout in Q4.
So how should we think about the revenue opportunity from this relationship going forward and have you received any indications from other retailers? Well winning Wal-Mart in the fourth quarter was important for a number of reasons not the least of which of course it was a large transaction.
But in terms of validation of the technology as well on a global basis it certainly helps given people follow Wal-Mart as an influencer in retail.
That particular transaction will rollout over the course of 2013.
It's quite large and it will take us time to fulfill all of the orders for Wal-Mart throughout the year.
That being said I would expect us to continue to have success in that space.
We are feeling very good about self-checkout growth in the retail space not just here in the U.S.
but globally and we are seeing more interest as a result of that particular win.
Ian Zaffino from Oppenheimer.
[Technical Difficulty] Are you there Ian? Can we move on to the next -- until Ian gets a good connection can we move on to the next call? Paul Coster from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give us a little bit of color on what's happening in Europe across each of your segments by geography and what your sort of sense of the sort of shape of the year is from a revenue perspective in that region.
We had a good quarter in Europe Paul.
A surprisingly good quarter in particular with Financial in Europe.
Now as you know we have a good position in Eastern Europe and in Western Europe.
But Western Europe has been traditionally slower than Eastern Europe.
Overall growth in the quarter was solid in that space.
For Retail we continue to make progress in Europe.
Obviously the acquisition of Retalix changes the game for NCR in Europe.
Retalix has significant customers in Europe particularly the U.K.
and that will help us better diversify our revenues going forward and they're higher-margin revenues as a result of them being software transactions and customers in that space.
Hospitality continues to grow in Europe but they are smaller more nascent and we're making investments in new headcount sales and initiatives in Europe to grow our Hospitality business over time.
And of course not Europe but the Middle East the big win we had in the quarter in travel was Oman airport where that's a bellwether win for us in that we can replicate that kind of win in travel on a global basis once we get it right.
And the Oman win was significant for us.
Our travel orders in the quarter were significant for the company.
Now significant for the size of that business is not something that I would point to as being a game changer for us in the quarter.
It didn't really contribute that much to our growth in the quarter in terms of order growth but for that particular business it was sizable.
So I think it gives you a sense -- I'm more optimistic Paul about Europe generally.
Now that's a relative statement meaning I think it's less worse than we anticipated going forward and I like our position in Europe.
I like the position we have with Financial Services.
I really like our position now in Retail as a result of Retalix.
The investments we're making in Hospitality should pay off and our travel team there is doing a great job.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a quick follow-up.
Can you give us some sense perhaps Bob of the cost of the internal investigations for OFAC and FCPA compliance and what maybe the next step is if there -- if you got some sense for the timeline.
Yes.
The overall cost was around $4.8 million of which $4 million as you can see we called out this quarter and $800 000 or so that we actually included in operational results in Q3 that we did not call out in Q3.
Going forward we're not anticipating a cost because the internal investigation is complete.
Our special committee has completed their investigation on behalf of our board and we will continue to work very transparently very openly with the SEC DOJ and OFAC towards hopefully successful resolution with them.
But we're not anticipating anything material on cost given the findings of our internal investigation.
Roman Leal from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First a follow-up question in Retail.
Even excluding the Retalix contribution there the underlying growth expectations are pretty solid.
Can you help us think through -- obviously there's the Wal-Mart deal help us think through like what are the other factors that help you be more confident there maybe the pipeline and then also maybe any indication between what the growth in self-service versus traditional cash registers will be helpful as well.
Yes I think I began to talk to you all about what I suspected would be better growth in Retail this year about 3 quarters ago or so.
Kind of giving you some indication that I expected 2013 to be a better year for Retail.
And that's what has transpired.
There is an upgrade cycle in place that we anticipated a while back.
We're responding to it.
We've positioned the company well to respond to it.
So the underlying growth beyond self-checkout relates to that in the core of what was NCR.
Obviously Retalix is on top of that and additive to the core growth.
Self-checkout obviously had a terrific year for NCR.
The self-checkout growth was what was it Bob in '12? Revenue let me get that for you.
Yes we'll get you the revenue growth we have in self-checkout in a moment.
It was a very solid year in that space and we anticipate obviously another great year for self-checkout.
So net-net we feel good about the self-service business.
We feel good about the point-of-sale business.
And now with the significant software assets we've acquired we feel good about our growth in that space both for software and SaaS.
Importantly I want to point out that NCR did have 125% SaaS growth in the year.
We have a large growing fast-growing SaaS business at NCR.
And the Retalix acquisition will give us another $20 million or so of additional SaaS business and make that business now -- in aggregate when you combine NCR and what is Retalix about $125 million to $150 million a year SaaS business inside that $725 million to $775 million outlook for software for NCR.
A lot of that SaaS business will come from Hospitality and Retail.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one in U.S.
ATM.
Your competitor obviously has cited a little weakness in regional in the regional space and I think you kind of echoed that.
But what's really interesting is that they called out that mix shift that's having significant implications for their margins.
It doesn't seem to be impacting you as much.
Is that because of just the diversification of your business or are you positioned differently in U.S.
ATMs? No it is -- it does relate back to the diversification of our business in Financial Services the fact that we're a global player not an international player.
We are not as sensitive as some of our peers do given segmenting in markets like the U.S.
So we have a wonderful balance of our revenue stream that includes of course the U.S.
But as you know in Financial Services well over 50% of our revenues are outside the U.S.
Matt Summerville from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the ATM business.
Your growth outlook in constant currency up 2% to 4%.
Bill can you give a little bit of a sense in terms of what you're expecting by region Europe versus Asia versus South America and North America around that 2% to 4% number? Yes Matt some color there.
I expect the U.S.
to be flat to down on the year and rest of world to be up frankly in the mid-single digit range.
Obviously for us Brazil has been a major contributor to our growth in terms of revenue growth.
They'll continue to be.
They had a terrific 2012.
Revenue growth in Brazil was off the charts for us.
And I would think that we're going to see a bit better contribution coming from Europe in 2012 (sic) as well.
But the real -- if I were to isolate the issue for you which is somewhat less of an issue for NCR of course it's really in the U.S.
and in nationals.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up on Hospitality.
The business was up very strongly in the quarter and even sequentially it was up about $20 million operating income fell $1 million on a sequential basis.
Can you talk about what's going on in that business from a mix standpoint and how we should think about the margin evolution in 2013? Yes I think Bob gave the margins in his outlook for that business.
But in Q4 in Hospitality again remember we had a larger mix of customers from what was old NCR and we have made significant investments in hospitality.
And we're going to continue to do that.
Investments in Silver come out of Hospitality.
Investments in SaaS new salespeople and R&amp;D come out of Hospitality.
Investments in international growth and sales headcount in places like Europe.
So we recognize that we have significant growth in that space.
We recognize the opportunity long time is outstanding and we want to make sure we're balancing investment with near-term profitability.
Ian Zaffino from Oppenheimer.
Gil Luria from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Bob you pointed out in your prepared remarks that you well exceeded your NPOI guidance from the beginning of the year by the end of this year.
Should we view the NPOI guidance for this year as just as conservative as when we started this year last year? The answer is I don't know Gil.
I mean we start the year doing a risk-adjusted view of the year based on what we know in January.
And as you all know things change materially throughout the year.
And the one thing I would tell you is that we kind of hit exactly kind of the guidance we gave in Q4.
So we did beat and raise last year's several quarters and throughout the year we've always given you updates in terms of where we think we're going to land.
The answer is based on what we know right now we think that's responsible guidance and what we see today.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up is what are you assuming for the economic backdrop mostly in Europe and emerging markets to come up with your guidance for the year? Are you assuming an improvement in Europe? Are you assuming the same scenario in the emerging markets? What are the assumptions in terms of the backdrop? The assumptions are very consistent with what we saw in '12 Gil.
So global growth of around 1.75% to 2.25% broken down where you'd have the U.S.
at 1.5% to 2%.
Looking at Europe flat to down 1%.
And then emerging markets in a basket of 5% to 10% depending upon whether you're in Brazil or China.
So I don't think that we're expecting any better global economic environment in '13 than we did in '12.
The only thing I would say is what I am seeing it's a slightly -- and again this is difficult to quantify because we're talking about Europe here but a slightly better Europe than perhaps than we anticipated doing our planning process.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more follow-up if you don't mind.
In terms of the Hospitality business and the Retail business you just rolled out the cell phone company with 600 locations.
Sounds like you're developing a lot of solutions within the Hospitality segment around mobility.
Are you seeing any share losses from some of the upstarts in mobility or is this really an opportunity to get incremental business in the Retail and Hospitality verticals? It's an incredible opportunity for us Gil.
I mean we're finding ourselves now in the center point of the mobile payment revolution whether it's people like PayPal wanting to partner with us and go to market with us or other customers wanting to go to market with us that we have not yet announced or what we're seeing in the small business space and/or travel with our Mobile Wallet application.
I mean we're just seeing a ton of interest in.
One thing you have to recognize with Retalix is Retalix's software R10 is an enterprise platform that has incredibly good capability vis-à-vis omni-commerce and mobile in particular.
So now we can enable more mobile applications more mobile payment capabilities both SaaS and enterprise software as a result of Retalix and what we've grown internally at NCR than we ever can before as we can continue to work with strategic alliance partners like PayPal.
I think we have a great opportunity to become a very central player in this space.
So thank you all for joining us today.
And we look forward to talking to you in April.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect from the audio portion.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I'd like to turn over the meeting to Tracy Krumme Vice President of Investor Relations at NCR.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and thanks everyone for joining us on our First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will lead our conference call.
After Bill's opening remarks Peter Leav EVP and President Industry and Field Operations will update you on progress with respect to certain key initiatives.
Bob Fishman NCR's Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on our financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call Bill and Bob will be referring to a presentation posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor Page of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on NCR's website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of April 30 2013 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise this information included in this call whether as a result of new information or further results.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Tracy and good afternoon to all of you.
I'm on the key takeaways slide Slide 3.
Let's start with revenue.
Revenue was up 13% as reported and 15% on an FX neutral basis.
The 2-point difference was largely the Japanese yen impact on us in the quarter and I would point to the fact that revenue was up significantly without Retalix.
Revenue was up 9% and 11% respectively without the Retalix impact.
So a solid quarter for NCR.
Gross margin was a good story for us up 120 basis points year-on-year.
Again that was also up without the impact of Retalix in the quarter so a solid year-over-year expansion of gross margin and we'll talk about why in a minute.
But NPOI is a big story for us.
This is the first time we've gone over 9% in the quarter in the Q1 and it's a great start to the year not just the overall growth of NPOI year-on-year but the margin we're now driving.
Software was the key contributor to gross margin expansion.
We're seeing solid software revenue growth across the company in all lines of business and in particular SaaS revenue which had a great quarter.
And we are on track to achieve our guidance we gave you.
And remember software guidance is without professional services so we don't include that in that number that's software SaaS and software maintenance.
We did close Retalix in the quarter.
It was a solid close on Feb.
6 and they had a good start to the year for NCR.
We did have one significant win we'll talked about on today's call.
We had several wins in the quarter but one certainly important win for our company a great brand name in the organic grocery space.
And today ahead of schedule Bob and I are going to talk about Phase III pension strategy.
I'll give you some insight in a moment on that but we're excited essentially to talk about what we think is the last leg of our pension strategy here today on the call.
And lastly key takeaways we are raising guidance on the NPOI and non-GAAP EPS side of things.
We're keeping revenue guidance the same.
If you go to the line of business highlights chart a couple of things I'll point to.
We had a good quarter in financial services despite some significant headwinds in the U.S.
on a year-over-year comparison basis.
We had a great performance outside the U.S.
The U.S.
was weak.
But in particular EMEA and China both performed well.
They were double-digit growth.
And frankly Brazil also had a very very good quarter.
Operating margins were down slightly year-on-year.
We were in an investment mode in this line of business in Q1.
In particular we're continuing to invest in services and R&amp;D in particular in the branch space.
We'll come to that in a moment.
But we've talked about services last year quite a bit and we continue to invest there.
And we did have some market share gains in the all-important small and medium bank segment in the quarter.
Peter will talk more about branch but we are seeing great activity in this new adjacent segment that we're focused on.
And we are working with a number of customers there so we'll hold off.
In a moment Peter will talk about that.
But it is a bright spot in the U.S.
that we think can have impact on the company in the second half of the year and certainly going into 2014.
And look on an overall basis it would be difficult to compare to last year's numbers in the U.S.
given the regulatory upgrade cycle we were experiencing.
So it was important to us that we did have a very solid quarter outside the U.S.
and the team did a nice job overall.
Retail was the star performer for us this quarter.
They had a terrific quarter up 41% year-on-year.
When you take Retalix out still up 27% year-on-year.
Just a solid quarter in terms of operating income improvement.
This is a business I think we have permanently reinvented going forward for the last decade plus.
We've been driving operating income margins of low to mid-single digits and I don't think we will get there again.
I think we're going to be driving to high-single digits low-double-digit operating margins for the long term.
Software played an important role in our success in this business in Q2 as did self checkout which had an outstanding quarter for us in Retail.
So we're really pleased with the progress we have made.
Certainly the Retalix acquisition helped us in the quarter and we had significant wins not just those we announced with Modell's and DSW but also with a large U.S.
organic grocer.
And Peter again will give you more color on that.
Hospitality good quarter overall great gross margin expansion for the company as well.
That was offset by investments we made so higher expenses in the quarter.
They were all planned in particular on sales SaaS and R&amp;D.
We are doing a nice job on the integration front as well winning business in this space also.
And North America had a great quarter here.
The small and medium business was up as you can see 33% year-over-year and SaaS continues to really impress us with regard to the growth we're seeing in that space.
As expected because of the partial loss of a contract late last year the Emerging Industries were down year-on-year.
Operating margin was down as well but we did have great success in terms of travel on the revenue growth side and continue to see traction in our SaaS-based mobile boarding pass application where we cross the $3 million number in March so a mixed story in emerging markets a for us for Emerging Industries.
Let's talk Retalix for a moment.
We talked about them being accretive to Q1.
On the next chart you can see we did about $50 million in revenue about $9 million in NPOI.
We kicked off the integration effort in the quarter.
We feel good about this acquisition as good as we did Radiant in terms of fit and form and impact.
We do have a higher degree of competence in synergy realization on the cost side here.
Early on I think we will overachieve our initial target to year 1 and close in on our 3-year target as per expected.
So the work we've done since the acquisition is giving us high confidence on the ability to do that.
And I would say that we have seen customers enthusiastically embrace this acquisition and we're seeing a result of that the funnel growing and also more business that we think we can drive this year and into 2014.
If you go to the next chart let's talk pension my favorite topic.
We had a very successful Phase I and Phase II.
But today Bob will take you to through the details of Phase III.
I'd like you to think about Phase III as a 2-year program and the real focus here is to reduce the underfunded GAAP position we have to around $100 million by the end of that 2-year period from what is just south of $500 million today.
Increase free cash flow and you can think about that net of interest about $50 million to $70 million per year.
Reduce our overall global liability we reduced the liability last year by about $0.5 billion.
We're $700 million or so last year.
We'd like to get that down into the $1 billion or so and with that comes out a whole bunch of deadweight costs.
And there would be admin fees and PBGC fees and so on.
We also want to simplify NCR for all of you who are investing in us and you can think about all the transactions we'll talk to you today about as being NPV neutral or positive for us as we analyze each and every opportunity.
But the goal is to put pension behind us completely and Bob will give you a bit more color on that in a moment.
And so taking you to the summary chart before I hand it off to Peter I'd say that it was a very very good start to the year for us.
I mean I'm pleased with in particular the diversification of our revenue stream by industry and by product and by geography.
I'm particularly pleased with gross margin expansion operating margins where we would like them to be for NPOI and a good start for the year.
We did gain some share across a number of industries we do business in and we're pleased with that.
And we are seeing the early signs of increased interest and opportunity in the branch transformation space.
We are going to continue to invest.
The interesting thing about these results and our the company is we are simultaneously investing in a number of areas around NCR Hospitality we talked about but Services is another area.
Silver is another area.
We can go on.
But we're able to get to these results while also investing in the future and that is a good sign for us.
And then Retalix went well in the quarter a great start to the year.
And I'm pleased with our balance in terms of dealing with both legacy issues as well as growth initiatives.
And pension Phase III is another example of our focus on eliminating enterprise risk and improving the valuation of our the company by eliminating this complex issue that we've been dealing with for many years.
With that let me turn it over to Peter Leav.
Peter? Thank you Bill.
As Bill mentioned strong revenue growth in Retail and Hospitality and continued solid performance in Financial Services drove our first quarter performance.
Our continued focus on being the world's leader in consumer transaction technologies combined with strong innovation the rapidly increasing contribution of software and SaaS in our revenue mix and consumers undeniable appetite for technologies that make it convenient to transact with business anytime and anywhere are key factors driving our success.
Turning to our lines of business.
Financial Services revenue is up 5% on an FX neutral basis in Q1 a good result against strong first quarter last year.
As we have signaled previously with the larger U.S.
ADA and PCA upgrade cycle of the past 2 years winding down we faced some domestic headwinds in 2013.
But we're seeing some strength in our international markets and has enabled us to start the year with solid revenue growth.
Particularly strong areas for us where EMEA and China where we had double-digit revenue growth year-over-year.
We continue to see momentum and customer commitments for us multichannel deposit solutions including intelligent deposit and Scalable Deposit Module or SDM.
In an effort to better serve customer segments and to create competitive differentiation in the market Independent Bank Corporation in Michigan purchased our SDM-enabled SelfServ ATMs to begin its fleet migration from envelope deposit to intelligent deposit technology.
As digital and self-service channels grow in importance channel availability and a consistent consumer experience become more important.
NCR's APTRA software portfolio is extending its leadership to help financial institutions deliver consistent high-availability software-enabled networks to consumers.
Central 1 serving 3 million members is Canada's leading payments processor and trade association for credit unions.
They have selected NCR's APTRA Passport remote deposit capture software solution to allow customers to remotely deposit checks anywhere and anytime using their mobile phone's camera as a scanner a first for Canadian financial institutions.
This is exciting as recent changes by the Canadian Payments Association have opened the door to remote deposit in Canada.
And utilizing our technology Central 1 is a leader in the rapid adoption and deployment of this solution.
More financial institutions are selecting NCR's multi-vendor APTRA Edge software to simplify operations reduce cost and provide consistent user experiences across a mixed vendor/ATM hardware fleet.
Old National Bank in Indiana is one such customer who will deploy APTRA Edge as well as multiple elements of our APTRA software platform.
Old National bank has grown through acquisition and as a result requires a software platform to simplify the migration of acquired multi-vendor ATMs into their network.
According to RBR's newly published research report on multi-vendor software NCR has maintained its leadership position as the world's largest supplier of multi-vendor ATM middleware and applications.
This research was based on a study of 66 financial services organization in 38 countries with the deployment of more than 390 000 ATMs.
We are pleased to get this recognition.
The next big opportunity for NCR in the retail banking industry is branch transformation.
In previous conference calls and prior discussions in 2012 we said that new technologies surrounding branch transformation would be an underlying driver for ongoing demand for our solutions and that branch transformation could ultimately be larger than the ATM business.
It is coming to fruition and this is evidenced by our first quarter high triple-digit percentage growth in both branch transformation revenues and our Interactive Teller customer base.
We are working closely with our customers such as Bank of America Chase and Wells Fargo to innovate in this space.
Our solutions and services are designed to help banks improve operating expenses while enabling the expansion of physical distribution to where consumers live work and play.
As a result our assisted-service platforms including APTRA Interactive Teller are seeing continued momentum.
As you might have seen in the press earlier this month Wells Fargo announced the opening of a new banking store in Washington D.C.
as a neighborhood bank format.
NCR partnered closely with Wells Fargo to provide branch and consumer experience design services for the new format.
This small store format approximately 1 000 square feet will create up to 90% usable space through the elimination of paper and processes used in traditional branches and is supported by our new solutions such as interactive banking.
This new format will enable Wells Fargo to deliver great consumer experiences.
According to a recent Wall Street Journal article the cost of these branches can be 40% to 50% below traditional branches.
The project with Wells is one of several examples around the globe of emerging branch transformation solutions with financial institutions.
We are excited by the level of interest and activity in the segment and we look forward to updating you on progress on future calls.
Turning to our Retail Solutions segment.
We reported strong results with the Retail's revenues up 41% year-over-year.
These results include Retalix from February 6 the date of the closing of the acquisition to quarter end.
Software growth during the quarter was strong accounting for the significant profit margin expansion.
Including Retalix software revenue was up 146% in the first quarter versus the prior year.
Excluding Retalix software revenue grew 69% year-over-year.
Additionally there was a strong growth in self-checkout revenue up 178% year-over-year primarily due to the large scale deployment of new SelfServ checkout units in North America.
The acquisition of Retalix strengthens our retail software and services portfolio and bolsters our leadership position providing software-led solutions to the retail industry.
Just recently we were recognized by Gartner who ranked Retalix and NCR #1 and #2 respectively in leadership rankings for CRM vendors.
This reinforces the powerful story that we were able to tell existing and prospective customers about our commitments to innovation with leading software solutions.
Our next-generation Retalix 10 omni-commerce offering is the only retail platform that encapsulates all operational data and business logic within a single repository serving mission-critical retail applications.
Retalix 10 enables delivery of comprehensive centrally managed retail offerings such that shoppers are presented with seamlessly consistent pricing availability information and promotions across whatever platform they are using.
We are pleased to announce the first major Retalix 10 win since Retalix joined the NCR family.
Known in the retail industry as America's first national certified organic grocer with the stores in the U.S.
Canada and the U.K.
this well-known supermarket chain selected Retalix 10 after an extensive search.
Leveraging this unique software architecture the platform will deliver mobile shopper e-commerce and traditional in-store point-of-sale creating a common user experience and brand value irrespective of the customer touch point.
Innovation that impacts businesses of all sizes is a priority for our retail business.
NCR Silver is a good example.
NCR Silver offers small business owners powerful marketing analytic and reporting tools that in the past have only been available to large brands.
In the first quarter we expanded Silver's footprint distribution channel and value proposition to small business customers.
We continue to add to Silver's capabilities including integrating the product with social media and introducing an update enabling business owners to utilize gift card programs and capture sales and loyalty gains.
Turning now to Hospitality where we reported solid results.
Year-over-year first quarter revenues increased 16%.
SaaS revenues grew 49% and our SaaS application sites were up 35%.
We continue to grow both domestically evidenced by North America SMB revenue up 33% year-over-year and internationally with notable success in Brazil and Europe.
Contributing to this expansion are a series of product innovations improved value-added partnerships within our global accounts and an expanded reseller network.
We are having success in our Hospitality hardware and software solutions with wins among the venue restaurant and theater operators.
At a time when technology and market forces are challenging our Hospitality customers to stand out we are delivering consumer engagement and mobility solutions that create exceptional consumer experiences.
We continue to invest in developing high-margin portfolio of SaaS solutions which provide restaurants the ability to operate more efficiently manage a more profitable business and better engage with their customers in real time.
During the quarter we announced the partnership with PayPal and we are reaping the benefit through an early success with Jamba Juice.
By providing the ability to order ahead and pay from their smartphone or tablet the customer can save valuable time by skipping the line going directly to the pickup station where their order is ready.
We are seeing increased demand for our comprehensive enterprise restaurant technology solution coupled with our suite of professional services.
Our SaaS-based Pulse real time product which enables restaurant operators to receive valuable management information via their mobile devices has enjoyed the most rapid adoption among any of our prior Hospitality product releases.
We continue to aggressively integrate our mobile technologies with the release of NCR Aloha Mobile.
This innovative extension of our industry-leading Aloha Solution brings the power of a robust point-of-sale directly to the guests in support of table-side ordering and payment.
Operators have stated publicly that they have seen an increase in sales and profits and improved overall guest satisfaction.
Our new offer appeals directly to the U.S.
SMB segment where the uptick in mobile product adoption is expected to approach 40% this year.
In our Emerging Industries business revenues declined 15% due to an anticipated partial reduction in a contract with a large customer as we talked about in the last earnings call.
Overall however we remain excited about our progress in our targeted verticals.
Air travel is a very active area for us.
We recently had wins in airports in Oman and China and a new contract with a leading Latin American airline for our TouchPort kiosk.
In March alone NCR delivered record 3 million mobile boarding passes.
The technology and telecom line of business continue to drive expansion through the introduction of new solutions including its telecom storefront portfolio.
This solution helps wireless telecommunication providers transform their retail customer experience and realize next-generation productivity gains.
A top-tier wireless operator in India has already deployed this solution in 5 stores with 35 confirmed deployments in Q2.
We're also seeing good traction with important Latin American wireless providers.
In the first quarter BlackBerry selected NCR to improve its cost position through our help-desk services and end-user desktop support including PCs laptops and printers.
According to Doug Kozak VP of Information Technology at BlackBerry NCR was one of the few companies with the industry experience and infrastructure in place to get our initiative up and running cost effectively in 3 months.
NCR services grew revenue 10% in Q1 and our attach rates continue to climb in line with our strategy of being a leading global services organization.
In summary the first quarter marked a solid start for the year.
We continue to execute across our core and emerging verticals deploying innovative technologies and solutions that strengthen our customers operating platforms while growing our software and services revenues.
In addition to innovations and initiatives that I've outlined in our business we remain very focused on sales enablement throughout the organization both within our and across our lines of business.
We aim to continue to increase our level of execution to drive revenue growth gross margin expansion and great experiences for our customers.
I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Okay.
Thanks Peter.
NCR's total reported revenue in the fourth quarter was $1.41 billion up 13% versus Q1 2012 and up 15% on a constant currency basis.
We reported GAAP income from continuing operations of $62 million or $0.37 per diluted share.
This compares to a GAAP loss from continuing operations of $10 million or a loss of $0.06 per diluted share in Q1 2012.
NCR's results from continuing operations include special items in both periods.
Excluding pension and special items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.54 per share in Q1 2013 versus $0.47 in Q1 2012.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effect of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release and the supplementary non-GAAP materials in the slides that Bill referred to earlier that reconcile our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q1 2013 gross margin was 27.4% compared to 26.2% in the prior year period.
This 120-basis-point increase was primarily driven by a favorable mix of revenue including higher software revenues and a continued focus on cost improvement initiatives.
Operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were approximately 18.3% of revenue in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 18.1% in the same period last year.
The company continues to invest in sales and R&amp;D while reducing our overall G&amp;A expenses.
Non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $129 million in the first quarter compared to $101 million in the prior year period an increase of 28%.
The first quarter of 2013 included a $13 million benefit from a change in the severance policy in the U.S.
Our U.S.
severance policy is no longer based on years of service.
So going forward expense will be recorded when probable and can be estimated rather than actuarially determined.
This change only applies to our U.S.
severance plan so our international entities will continue to record severance under the previous methodology.
This is a good example of dealing with the legacy issue and simplifying our company going forward.
The $13 million benefit in Q1 2013 will be offset by an estimated $7 million to $10 million of severance expense in the U.S.
for the remainder of the year.
First quarter 2013 segment operating margins were as follows: Financial Services decreased slightly to 8% versus 8.2% in the prior year quarter as we continue to invest in R&amp;D and our services business; Retail Solutions increased to 8.4% from 0.6% in the prior-year quarter mainly due to a favorable mix of revenue including more software and the inclusion of the Retalix business starting in February 2013; Hospitality decreased to 16% from 16.8% in the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to investments in SaaS sales and R&amp;D; Emerging Industries decreased to 13.2% from 25.8% in the first quarter of 2012 primarily driven by the partial loss of a customer contract in our telecom and technology business as previously discussed.
Other expense was $19 million in Q1 2013 which is mainly related to interest expense.
Income tax expense was $2 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to a benefit of $21 million in Q1 2012.
Excluding the effect of pension and nonrecurring items the first quarter 2013 effective tax rate was 16% compared to 15% in Q1 2012.
The tax rate in the quarter benefited from the U.S.
extenders tax legislation that was signed into law in January.
NCR's full year 2013 effective tax rate is expected to be 26%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Cash on hand at March 31 2013 was $483 million down from $1.069 billion at December 31 2012.
The decrease in cash was primarily attributable to the closing of the Retalix transaction in February.
Total debt was $2.09 billion at end of Q1 2013 compared to $1.96 billion at the end of December 2012.
Moving to the cash flow statement.
NCR had $21 million of cash generated in operating activity in Q1 2013 compared to $89 million in the prior year period.
Free cash flow was a cash outflow of $23 million in Q1 2013 compared to a cash inflow of $49 million in the prior year period.
The decrease was primarily due to a change in working capital in anticipation of higher revenue in later quarters.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plant and equipment in addition to capitalized software.
We continue to expect free cash flow for full year of 2013 to be in the range of $200 million to $250 million up from $146 million in 2012.
I'd like to conclude by discussing our 2013 full year guidance and providing an update on Phase III of our pension strategy.
Full year 2013 revenue growth expectations for our lines of business includes services and are on a constant currency basis.
The revenue guidance by line of business has not changed from our previous guidance provided during the Q4 earnings call.
In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow 2% to 4%.
In Hospitality we expect revenues to increase 15% to 18%.
In Retail we expect revenues to rise 22% to 25%.
Retail revenues are expected to grow 7% to 9% excluding Retalix.
In our Emerging Industries line of business we expect revenues to be up 3% to 5%.
In terms of total revenue we are reaffirming our guidance of 9% to 11% growth on a constant currency basis.
We are raising our full year NPOI and non-GAAP EPS guidance.
Our new 2013 NPOI estimate is $700 million to $720 million up from the previous $695 million to $710 million.
Our non-GAAP EPS guidance is now $2.70 to $2.80 up from the previous $2.65 to $2.75 EPS guidance.
And now for an update on Phase III of our pension strategy.
I've included 3 charts at the end of Bill's presentation that might be helpful Pages 9 to 11.
We are pleased to be able to share with you the announcement of Phase III of our pension strategy ahead of our previous timeline.
As mentioned on our Q4 earnings call we have had excellent success with Phase I and Phase II of our pension strategy which were completed in 2012.
I'm on Page 9 of the presentation.
In the U.S.
over a 3-year period we shifted our asset mix to approximately 100% fixed income at year end 2012.
We also had 65% of our international asset and fixed income at year end 2012.
As part of Phase II we've contributed $600 million to the U.S.
pension plan which was financed through attractive capital market borrowings.
We also made a voluntary lump sum offer to certain deferred vested participants.
We achieved a number of significant benefits as a result of Phase I and Phase II of our pension strategy.
First we significantly reduced the volatility of our plan by moving to fixed income and improving the underfunded status of the global plan by $878 million in 2012 from $1.346 million to $468 million.
We achieved an NPV positive transaction with our lump sum offer and reduced ongoing administrative costs.
Finally in Phase II we increased free cash flow by eliminating the need to make required U.S.
planned contributions over the next 5 years and we reduced the overall pension liability by approximately $750 million in the U.S.
plan.
Phase III execution has begun and will continue over the next 2 years.
Phase III is designed to increase free cash flow and further reduce the underfunded status of our plans and overall pension liability.
We expect to achieve these benefits through economically attractive transactions that further reduce administrative costs and reduce balance sheet risk.
I'm on Page 10 of the presentation.
There are many activities that we expect to be included in Phase III of our pension strategy.
And over the 2-year horizon we could add to this list and we have already made progress on executing the Phase III pension strategy during the first quarter of 2013.
For example we terminated our legacy U.S.
executive nonqualified retirement plan.
We also completed an early retirement offer through the U.S.
pension plan that to date has been accepted by approximately 400 U.S.
employees.
This will drive operational savings to the company.
We planned future actions to include a lump sum offer to certain U.S.
deferred vested participants not included in the 2012 offer.
Subject to any necessary regulatory approval we expect to begin a retiree lump sum offer for participants in the U.S.
qualified plan.
We also plan to pre-fund and or order wind up one or more of our international plan and to pre-fund the U.S.
plan to further reduce interest rates and funding risk.
Finally as part of Phase III we have implemented mark-to-market accounting effective January 1 2013.
As a result we have revised our prior year GAAP results included an additional schedule with our Q1 2013 earnings release.
That's Schedule B.
Let me talk a little about pension accounting.
The last page of the presentation Page 11 shows the impact of the change in pension accounting methodology.
We had previously announced that we were considering a change in our pension accounting methodology to adopt mark-to-market accounting.
This change is being implemented effective this quarter.
Under mark-to-market accounting differences in the value of pension assets and liabilities resulting from changes in assumptions or market movements will be reflected in expense during the current year generally through an annual Q4 noncash charge.
Under our historical practice these differences will differ and amortize into expense gradually over many years.
We believe that this change increases the transparency of our pension accounting for our investors.
We've recasted all prior periods to reflect this change.
This schedule will show how the various measures have changed for the last 3 years.
In general the GAAP EPS changed due to the elimination of the amortization of historical actuarial losses.
Additionally in 2012 GAAP EPS improved based on the positive impact of the lump sum offer to certain U.S.
deferred vested participants.
In 2011 GAAP EPS decreased mainly due to lower discount rates.
And in 2010 GAAP EPS improved due to the reduction in amortization previously mentioned.
As you can see from the schedule there was no impact to NPOI or non-GAAP EPS from the change.
Now let me summarize some of the financials around Phase III back on Page 10.
Phase III of the strategy will be financed primarily through a debt-for-debt exchange using some combination of free cash flow revolver and long-term debt to reduce the pension liabilities and improve the underfunded position.
We will also use pension plan assets to execute on some of the initiatives.
We expect the capital requirements to be approximately $300 million to $400 million over the next 2 years and as I mentioned primarily debt-for-debt.
We anticipate that Phase III of our pension strategy will drive meaningful benefits over the next 2 years.
Under mark-to-market we expect a GAAP pension expense will be reduced to a run rate basis of approximately $20 million in 2013 down from $292 million in 2012.
This 2013 run rate excludes the impact of any onetime action as well as the impact of changes in assumptions and market movements.
We expect the underfunded status will improve from $468 million at the beginning of 2013 to approximately $100 million by the end of 2014.
We expect pension liability to decrease by at least $1 billion over the next 2 years and expect free cash flow improvement of approximately $50 million to $70 million by 2015 due to the reduction of pension contributions net of interest cost for funding.
And finally we expect a significant reduction in volatility funding risk and administrative costs.
While we are proud of our accomplishments in Phase I and II we believe the work that we will do in the next 2 years will have an even more meaningful benefit.
We will continue to seek to reduce volatility de-risk the company's balance sheet and make NCR a simpler business to understand.
The execution of Phase III will allow us to put pension behind us and ultimately resolve for good our most significant legacy issue.
And with that I'll open up the call for questions.
Operator you can open up the call for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a bit more about the investments you're making in R&amp;D and services in the financial services industry just given that that was a drag on margins for the last couple of quarters? Is that legacy investments or is that investments ahead of the branch automation opportunity? It's the latter.
We're making investments largely in branch transformation Katy as well as software.
And the services investments we started back in Q3 of 2012 they'll continue on through the remainder of this year but become incrementally less as Q2 3 and 4 unfold.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if the branch automation revenue comes through which it sounds like could be as early as the back half of the year you would expect that the margins to expand again.
And is that the right timing? That is.
I would say that 2014 will be an important year for branch transformation.
Think about this year around $80 million to $100 million of branch transformation revenue which by the way was a lot more than we originally anticipated coming into the year.
So meaningful but in the grand scheme of things is small in comparison to the total.
But that is a more margin-rich environment because it's more software involved in that selling process and ultimate solution and it's more services.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up for Bob.
Just to be clear on the guidance the higher NPOI and EPS guidance includes the $13 million benefit from severance changes but then you would expect that to be partially offset by higher severance of $7 million to $10 million as you go through the year.
Is that the right way to think about the changes? Yes that's exactly the right way to think of it.
The benefit of $13 million in Q1 is offset by the $7 million to $10 million that will flow through the remainder of the year.
Next question comes from Paul Coster with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> It feels like you are moving into different segments of your traditional markets with which your competitive landscape is changing.
Can you just talk a little bit about both in the Retail segment and Financial Services segment in particular whom you now run up against and whether you sort of perceive yourself as the aggressor or the defender in that competition? Well I think the -- Paul the overall comment you make is something that is important for people to understand.
This is a very different NCR than just a few years ago in so many ways.
It's difficult to describe on a quarterly analyst call.
But we are a very different company and we do have a different go-to-market and set of products by industry now than we have had just in the recent past.
If you think about Financial Services we're still quite well positioned there.
We're the #1 market share leader in hardware for ATMs and software for multi-vendor ATM software for services in terms of services attached in our services business.
So we're quite well positioned in the legacy space.
And the positive aspect of branch transformation is net new space for NCR.
Other competitors occupy it today but with older technology that will be replaced so we feel very good about this segment of the market this adjacency.
And it should be noted we've been working with several customers now for a long period of time on innovation in this space large customers as well as medium-sized customers.
And so we feel good about the space overall.
And we really feel excited about software and SaaS going down to market to the mid-tier and smaller banks on a global basis.
So overall that is an exciting industry with the exception of the difficult compares in the first half of '13 versus '12.
Retail we've gone from being hardware company to being in my estimation -- and I don't mean this to sound with hyperbole here but one of the most if not the most important technology company to retailers in the world.
And these are our customers telling us this not us wanting to believe that.
But it is a competitive environment.
You have IBM who sold their business to Toshiba Tec who is obviously a key competitor Fujitsu and other competitors now in the software space.
But we do have a unique end-to-end solution that is quite powerful in terms of hardware software and services today and the advantage of having Retalix 10 as an omni-channel omni-commerce platform given the state that that is in is unique.
So we feel good about our position.
We think we're the aggressor in those 2 markets.
Clearly Hospitality we're the aggressor and have a great position in the U.S.
and we need to prove that internationally where we're #2.
And that's really our goal is to take this wonderful and powerful solution we have that again is software-intensive out to the international market and in down-market effectively.
In the other spaces travel is going well.
TNT has -- we have work to do there.
I won't comment much on those due to they're smaller in nature.
But I will say that we continue to be excited about NCR small business and Silver.
Lots of work needs to be done there but that's a new market opportunity for us.
We now have well over 1 100 customers and growing quickly by the day and that is a new segment that we feel we're well positioned for overall.
So we're quite diverse.
We have many different competitors across the board.
We're now software-led if you will in those markets.
And yes there are more competitors we're dealing with but we feel we're in a great position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A quick follow-up.
Bob the guidance for the remainder of the year has been raised a little bit but by not much more than you've beaten by here.
And well my senses here being very conservative what's your response to that? Well again some of beat just to clarify in Q1 was based on the benefit of the severance change and that's going to be offset with severance through the balance of the year.
So we did increase the NPOI guidance by $10 million at the top end so we viewed that as pretty significant.
Again from my perspective the Q1 provided some more clarity into the balance of the year which was good and we were glad to be able to up the guidance.
Next question comes from Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> In Financial Services it came in above our estimates despite half year-over-year comps.
How should we think about growth in the segment the next few quarters? Yes I think you should think about growth in Q2 -- in Q2 it's going to be a challenging quarter for us in terms of growth again because it's the most difficult quarter we're facing in terms of compares year-on-year particularly in the U.S.
and then the back half of the year should incrementally improve as a result of compares that will get easier as the quarters go by improvement in branch transformation revenues and improvement in services.
So I think that again we've always anticipated in our outlook that the first half of the year will be more difficult than the back half of the year.
Again because of comparisons the U.S.
base mainly would begin to ease a bit.
So I think the back half is going to be a better half for NCR and help us to achieve our guidance of 2% to 4% growth.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
The next question is regarding FCPA.
I don't see it in the press release.
Bill can you provide us with an update as to where we are with respect to the FCPA? Yes sure.
I'd say there's nothing new to report in Q1 and we continue to work with the authorities to work through these issues to resolution.
Next question comes from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I know you indicated that in Financial Services the U.S.
was down.
Can you give us an order of magnitude how much that was down and maybe how much non-U.S.
was up? North America revenues were down around the mid-teens.
I think it was around 15% in North America and the rest of the world made up the difference for us Ian.
I don't know the exact number because we break it down by region.
But I can tell you that EMEA had solid growth for us.
I know they were up I think 12% year-on-year.
And included in there we had some great performances in certain countries in Western Europe in particular year-on-year.
China had a great quarter for us and Brazil.
So they were really the key factors in what made up the difference between the U.S.
being down a bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the self-checkout you also alluded to just triple-digit growth.
Ex-ing out your biggest contract what was the rest of the business sort of up? I don't know the answer to that.
It was solid.
When we take out that one big contract it was still a solid quarter for us.
And we anticipate that that will continue perhaps not at that 178% pace although we'd like that year-on-year.
But we don't expect that in the forthcoming quarters.
We do expect to have a great Q2 3 and 4 in that space.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the final question would be -- and I know you guys have always been very good as far as giving forward-looking -- not guidance but really forward-looking plans.
You discussed and laid out very well Phase I Phase II Phase III the pension.
You're pretty much done with Phase III of the pension.
You've talked about the increase of free cash flow.
You've talked about some spending or some investments you're going to do.
But what's beyond that as you look to maybe -- are we looking for another acquisition? Are we looking to return cash to shareholders? How do we get our minds around that? Well right now one thing we have done well Ian and we're disciplined in this way is that we've kind of had great balance of focus here on legacy issues and growth initiatives.
Right now we're digesting our Retalix and integrating that.
We're finishing the integration of Radiant and I want to make sure we'd do those both well.
And by the way in doing them well we'll continue to grow our gross margins because of the growth we're seeing in software and SaaS.
So I feel good about expansion of margin as a result of what we've done so far vis-à-vis growth initiatives.
We're really focused on legacy initiatives for at least the remainder of this year meaning we want to get pension Phase III right.
There's a lot of work and effort Bob and I spend hours per week on this making sure it's done properly as do many tens of people at NCR.
We're also dealing with other legacy issues that you may not see but do impact us like the U.S.
severance changes so you're aware.
As you well know we traditionally have used FAS 112 as an accounting mechanism for severance accounting in the U.S.
It's an old AT&amp;T legacy vestige of the past.
And now we're moving away from that in the U.S.
And each of our businesses will now pay for severance in the quarter that they take it.
That's very different than what was in the past using FAS 112 to amortize the cost of that severance over a 7-year period.
So there are lots of those little -- they're not so little but legacy issues were getting behind us.
We are turning into rapidly a technology company and putting these legacy issues behind us culturally and otherwise helps us achieve that goal.
And so we're going to spend our time doing that the remainder of this year and see where we are going into 2014.
We have put ourselves in a position of achieving our aspirational targets.
So we feel very good about the future of this company and the ability to continue to grow revenues and gross margin and operating margin even if we stopped with growth initiatives at the end of this year.
We probably will going into '14 but I think we feel good about that.
And then we'll make determinations.
And we look at this every quarter I do with the board as to how do we use our capital going forward.
And it's everything.
Everything is always on the table: buybacks dividends acquisitions legacy issue like pension.
We look at everything and examine what's in the best interest of the shareholder and we make a decision.
The next question comes from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First in the Retail business can you talk about what you expect your mix of self-checkout versus point-of-sale revenue to look like in '13 versus 12? I'm trying to understand more about how that -- we should be thinking about that mix shift? Well if you remember Matt going back many years we used to think about 70-30.
I don't know what that is today but I can tell it it's not 70-30 anymore it's higher.
Let us come back to you through Tracy and Bob and answer that question for you specifically but...
I think it's an interesting question Matt because historically we would have had that at our fingertips.
But now that we move more toward software services as a big piece self-checkout point-of-sale it's almost like -- we still like self-checkout because it drives those margins but the whole business the whole Retail business has become more services and software.
We'll get you that answer we just don't have it right now.
Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
And then Bill can you maybe talk more about just ATM demand more focused on emerging markets.
You hit on the U.S.
I'd like you maybe just to touch on Eastern Europe Russia you mentioned China being strong and sort of what you're game plan is your next move in Brazil as the Bradesco shift has fully anniversary-ed a quarter or 2 ago.
Yes the -- and I'll have Peter kind of weigh in here as well.
But my high-level perspective for you Matt is quite simple.
We continue to expect ATM demand in the emerging markets to be mid-single digit to high single-digit kind of growth over the medium term while we expect in more mature markets like Western Europe the U.S.
and Japan demand to be flat to down over the medium term.
The mix of that will continue to look like from my point of view a traditional ATM business put branch aside for the moment and just look at that as a space in the low-single digits to maybe medium-single digits when you have acquisition -- I'm sorry when you have upgrade cycles like Windows 7 or when you have upgrade cycles like EMV you might get a nonsecular pop for a short period of time.
But that market wants to grow secularly around 3% when you put it all together going forward.
What will be the adjunct to that will be branch opportunities in software and services in terms of growth over that timeframe which will help us grow faster than that market.
So that gives you a little bit of color.
For NCR again we had a superb quarter in countries in Europe the Middle East in particular Brazil and China.
Matt it's Peter.
I'll just make a few additional comments related to those areas where we see significant opportunities for growth and certain countries that continue to do real well across Eastern Europe Turkey being notable.
As Bill mentioned Middle East and Africa continues to do very very well and we continue to do very well there.
You heard about China and Brazil but India also is still very much a key component of the growth plan for ATMs and our growth plan within it albeit the models may be different.
But that market is still moving forward and something that we've invested in and will continue to stay focused on and working to gain share in those areas.
Additionally not only is it a cash dispense discussion but many of these markets are moving towards deposit and we know that that leads to accretive margins.
We know that that leads to a change in behavior and then that also ultimately leads to a broadened discussion regarding branch and services that grow with it.
So we are very bullish and we continue to be.
And obviously financial is a very broad business both direct and through partnerships.
We're in 180 countries and that's something that served us very well and obviously helped our balance in Q1.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly real quick Bob can you give in absolute dollars what the old severance expense number for the full year was in the P&amp;L and now what it is post moving away from FAS 112? I just want make sure I got this right.
And which year are you referring to Matt? Research Division</strong> I'm looking at 2013.
Pre the move away from FAS 112 what would your severance expense have looked like so if you were still amortizing it versus the go-forward expenses incurred.
I'm trying to understand the total change here.
I'd say it probably would have been between $150 million $170 million.
So if we hadn't made a change that's what you'd be looking at.
Research Division</strong> And then what are we looking at now for the full year? Well on a run rate you're looking at $20 million.
And then we've included in the reconciliation that our forecast for pension expense this year including the 2 activities that we started in Q1 which is the termination of the retirement executive plan and the ERO the early retirement offer that will take that $20 million run rate up to $35 million for this year.
And that's outlined in the kind of the reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP so think of it as a $20 million run rate and then impacted by a specific onetime transactions like the termination of the executive plan and the ERO.
Research Division</strong> But that doesn't impact severance right Bob? I'm asking about what the severance expense would like.
I'm sorry I thought you were asking about pension.
We're so focused on pension.
What with FAS 112 had been? Research Division</strong> Yes.
And now what is it without...
I think of it as it typically runs about $35 million and it might now be about $5 million better $3 million to $5 million better.
I gave you all this extra pension information as a bonus there.
Next question comes from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's Roman Leal in for Julio.
I guess first on the ATM backdrop your competitor was out there today speaking about potentially changing their pricing structure not clear whether that was domestically or across the board.
And just curious how much does pricing differ between you and your competitors domestically and across the board I guess globally in your ATM business? Roman this is Peter.
So needless to say we haven't announced anything of that nature related to pricing changes in the business and it's just very variant.
There are probably other elements to take into account where we've got different competitors and different markets that are more pronounced as it relates to your certain markets.
So when we look at the business across the markets there are different pricing structures and different competitive elements that we're seeing.
So I think it is important that we leave it at that at this point.
The discussion that we had this morning we'll go back and take a look at the impact but we're not looking at doing something comparable at this time.
Research Division</strong> Sure that's helpful.
In your Retail business when you strip out Retalix and I just kind of look at the -- even stripping out the self-checkout how did the traditional point-of-sale perform relative to your expectations? And how important is that in your guidance? Or is kind of your confidence in organic growth mostly driven by the self-checkout side of business? Well let me answer the question that Matt asked first this way you'll have that because you're asking it indirectly.
If you look at self-checkout hardware and software in Q1 it accounted for around 18% of our total revenues.
And again while important and somewhat higher margin than point-of-sale even though our point-of-sale margins have gotten significantly better over the last few years in terms of hardware point-of-sale margins the real big swing item for us now given the size of it is software and services.
So the rest of the business you can look at as a combination of hardware and then the software SaaS and services piece.
Is point-of-sale important? Yes.
It continues to be reasonably good margins for us and is accounted for around 12% of our revenues in Q1.
So as you can see the diversity of this revenue stream has become quite substantial in terms of software and services and recurring in nature.
So we're focused a great deal on that.
Our last question comes from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> First of all a very interesting announcement on Aloha Mobile.
If you wouldn't mind giving us a little bit more details when you launched it is it a hosted or in-store? I think you said small business but initially about Silver you said the same thing and then rolled it out to a 300-store chain.
So if you wouldn't mind giving us a little bit more detail on that and then when it's coming out.
And then the follow-up question to the last couple of questions in terms of when that big self-checkout project -- how long it's going to last how many more quarters that's going to last? Okay.
First on Aloha Mobile obviously we're all well aware of the movement towards tablets and mobile devices as a means to check people out or in depending upon the industry you're in.
And in Aloha Mobile space we've mobilized the application.
That announcement came in Q1.
We're beginning to roll it out.
We're having great success by the way in initial rollouts of Aloha Mobile so far.
You're right to point out that Silver is also a point-of-sale mobile application but not in Hospitality.
It is mainly for retail small and really small business retail if you will the mom-and-pop store kind of device so slightly different markets.
But again we are utilizing a similar mobile embodiment of the technology.
Relative to self-checkout we'll continue to see self-checkout momentum for -- in the U.S.
for a few larger customers roll into Q2 and then into Q3.
But we do anticipate also having an opportunity to extend the size of that particular order in this year going into the remainder of this year and into 2014.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification -- go ahead is that Peter? Just one other comment on Aloha Mobile.
In contrast to Silver it is an expansion of the existing base.
So when you think in terms of our hospitality space which you know fairly well this is an opportunity that's driven by a significant uptick in the number of mobile users in the restaurant space where we play and in many cases where we are desirous of becoming a bigger player the aforementioned discussion around global growth of the Hospitality business.
Whereas Silver we have a situation in which we are in many cases completely net new.
So I want to make sure the distinction as far as growth is important as this is an add-on a very important component of the mobile strategy but it's in a base that exists in many cases.
Research Division</strong> But just to clarify Silver is a mobile-hosted solution retail.
Aloha Mobile is an extension of your existing point-of-sale for ordering.
It's not a stand-alone restaurant POS hosted on mobile.
It is an extension of our current Aloha point-of-sale capability to mobile devices but it is also hosted as well as offered in server-based functionality.
Gil it's John Bruno.
I think I want to see you next week or in short I'll take you through this in more detail.
But I'd like to think about it as an application site similar to the way in which you think about our Hospitality business.
And our teams sells it as such to Peter's point as an extension of the existing brand.
It has full-feature function and capability.
But if you think about the Aloha suite there's a lot more to it than just mobile ordering.
There's a whole bunch of things with promotion and loyalty and promotions et cetera coupon redemption and so forth.
So we bifurcate the functionality necessary to make the mobile enablement improve it.
But unlike Silver which is a complete mobile-enabled software solution which is inclusive of the package it's a little bit different only because it's skinny-ed down for the much lower tier market.
Okay.
Thank you all for joining today.
This is a longer call than the usual in light of the pension Phase III announcement.
We appreciate you sticking in there with us today and we look forward to reporting back to you next in July.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
Please disconnect at this time.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the NCR Corporation Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Tracy Krumme Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you very much.
Good afternoon and thanks everyone for joining us on our second quarter 2013 earnings call.
Bill Nuti NCR's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will lead our conference call.
After Bill's opening remarks Peter Leav EVP and President Industry and Field Operations will update you on progress with respect to certain key initiatives.
Bob Fishman NCR's Chief Financial Officer will then provide comments on our financial results.
Our discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect our current outlook they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risk factors are described in NCR's periodic filings with the SEC and in our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call Bill and Bob will be referring to a presentation posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial results to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings press release and are also available on the Investor page of NCR's website.
A replay of the conference call will also be available later today on our website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay of this call please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of July 30 2013 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise this information included in this call whether as a result of new information or future results.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Tracy and good afternoon to all of you.
I'm on Slide 3 key takeaways for Q2.
Let me kick it off with a perspective on how we're doing against our reinvention goals at NCR.
We're doing a nice job internally.
The team is doing an excellent job of delivering good execution on an aggressive plan vis-à-vis our vision for the future of this company and I want to congratulate the team on that.
Some of the key takeaways for the quarter that would lend itself to giving you confidence we're executing well to our strategic intent would first be our strong software growth in the quarter inclusive of a solid quarter on SaaS growth as well.
We don't use PS as a factor in our revenue growth with software but our PS business also had a terrific quarter.
And you need to remember that our PS business is primarily in place to deliver software.
So we don't add it to our revenues but we had very solid quarter in PS.
And as a standalone software company this is a big software company today and we remain on track to achieve our goals of this year and to 2015.
In terms of new markets and adjacencies we're doing well.
The diversification of our revenue stream now gives us great balance depth and breadth across a number of industries geographies as well as channels to market.
We did have a great quarter in Hospitality this quarter in particular we'll talk more that and Retail inclusive of very solid results from Retalix.
Software and services were the key components to our growth there but generally speaking those 2 businesses combined with services did a fantastic job in Q2.
Services revenue were up significantly again driven by PS Professional Services up 52% year-on-year.
And in that context Retalix contributed significantly to that growth.
And we continue to do a good job balancing these growth initiatives with legacy issues we're facing.
We have not updated you recently on CI or our continuous improvement efforts but we're doing quite well there.
We'll achieved our goals for the year of over $100 million in cost savings.
We will generate enough to reinvest half of that back into the business.
And all of that's leading us to become a more efficient productive higher-quality company at lower cost structures.
And we'll talk more about pension.
Bob will address that in more detail but we're doing well.
And with regards to pension Phase 3 is underway.
Next slide.
Okay.
Here are the key metrics for Q2.
Solid revenue growth up 9%.
I'm very pleased with gross margin expansion in the quarter up 160 basis points in the quarter very very solid.
And again on the back of software growth in particular but we also had good core gross margin expansion outside of some of the inorganic things that we've done.
And all of us are pleased with the NPOI margin now reaching a record level of nearly 12%.
If you look at the next chart why? What was some of the underlying solid key issues we faced in each one the businesses that drove that.
Let me start with Financial.
First we had a good quarter in Financial when you take away the impact of the U.S.
market.
I think what obfuscates this quarter is the fact that the U.S.
market continues to be under duress and I expect that to be the case until around Q4.
We'll talk more about that in Q&amp;A I'm sure.
But we had great growth in markets outside the U.S.
particularly China India and also Brazil.
So net-net I think the U.S.
marketplace is again a bit of an issue for us we'll talk more about but I feel good about what I'm seeing vis-à-vis the order book in that market coming into Q4.
Software is growing in that space and we continue to gain share.
And we are seeing more momentum in branch.
So we'll talk more about that as well.
Retail had a great quarter again on the back of excellent performance from Retalix.
Operating income performance is solid and that's basically the great quarter for self-checkout as you would expect.
And again a balanced geographic performance across all key markets.
Hospitality.
I can't say enough about the performance of this business in the quarter.
I'm really pleased with where we are.
Our revenue is up 22% again driven by software and SaaS.
And we continue to have a strong channels base here.
SMB is doing quite well.
Okay.
Onto emerging.
You kind of know the story here.
The Emerging Industries are down 5% as expected and I have to say I do like what's going on in some key markets here like travel.
So I'm happy with where we are but we need more focus on key emerging spaces in travel and T&amp;T.
Okay.
Retalix doing quite well.
I talked about Retalix earlier.
I do like what's going on in the business.
I feel good about revenue growth operating income and I will say good key wins in the quarter.
So we'll talk more about this in Q&amp;A.
Q2 solid quarter great growth good diversity solid expansion of the margins and good solid integration efforts for Retalix.
Peter? Thank you Bill.
As Bill mentioned our solid performance in the quarter was driven by strong growth in Retail Hospitality and Services as well as steady results in Financial Services.
We continue to ramp our software and SaaS businesses which amounted to 12% of revenue in the quarter.
Customer activity and our sales funnel remain robust as our innovative solutions in software offerings continue to provide competitive differentiation drive sales and yield tangible business process efficiencies for our customers.
During the second quarter our strategic focus remained centered on omni-commerce opportunities with our customers.
Today's consumer is intuitively turning to their smartphone or tablet as a means to interact and transact and this is driving change in the businesses that serve them.
NCR has invested ahead of these consumer behavior shifts and is developing and deploying critical solutions and software applications that allow our customers to empower consumers.
In a world where omni-commerce interaction is becoming increasingly critical we are advancing innovative transaction technologies across each of our verticals and enable business growth and make every day easier.
Starting the business review with the Financial Services.
Q2 revenue was down 1% coming off a strong 7% growth in the year ago quarter with growth in Asia and Middle East-Africa offsetting a decline in North America.
Results reflected adoption of our branch transformation solutions which make conducting transactions easier for consumers while also optimizing our customer's branch operations.
In fact branch transformation solution revenue increased 136% over Q1 this year.
We reached agreements with over 20 new APTRA Interactive Teller customers in the quarter including multiple international commitments.
Q2 Financial Services software revenue grew 3% year-over-year faster than our overall business in the segment.
We continue to generate customer wins with our APTRA multivendor ATM and multichannel software solutions.
We remain the #1 ranked global provider of multivendor ATM software according to our RBR's Multivendor Software 2013 report.
In addition NCR's APTRA Passport for mobile check deposit solution secured more customer wins in the quarter bringing mobile convenience to financial service consumers.
One of these wins was ING DIRECT who was making Passport available to its customers across all major smartphone and iPads as well as tablets running Windows 8.
More financial institution ATMs in North America and Middle East-Africa rely on NCR's APTRA after software suite than any other provider.
Our Scalable Deposit Module SDM technology also continues to provide unmatched value for our customers.
SDM allows for the deposit of checks and cash simultaneously in any orientation through a single deposit slot.
Dollar Bank is replacing 60 older non-NCR ATMs with NCR's SelfServ ATMs with SDM as it looks to provide consumers with an improved deposit experience.
Our team continues to focus on helping our customers to meet the challenges facing their business.
An example is our response to Microsoft's decision to terminate its extended support of Windows XP Professional in April 2014.
Financial institutions of all sizes are facing critical decisions concerning the migration of their installed ATM fleets to Windows 7.
NCR is responding by designing a range of options for customers that will migrate their ATM footprint through a pathway that best meets their distinct business requirements.
Turning to Retail.
We reported strong results with revenues up 26% in Q2.
This top line performance includes Retail software revenue growth of 111% which helped drive strong profit margin expansion.
We also continue to generate strong self-checkout revenues.
We are highly enthusiastic about the potential for our Retail business in 2013 and beyond.
Retalix plays a big role in that optimism.
Retalix operates more innovative omni-commerce software platform available today and greatly strengthens our Retail portfolio.
The integration of Retalix is on target and the business is performing above our expectations and gaining new customers including Petro-Canada which selected our store point point-of-sale and fuel management software and South Africa's Massdiscounters which chose our transportation management software.
Our Retail innovation extends beyond Retalix as we continue to execute our small business and self-checkout initiatives.
During the quarter we announced the strategic alliance with Vantiv the third-largest merchant acquirer in the United States serving nearly 400 000 merchant locations.
Together we will focus on bringing integrated all-inclusive point-of-sale and payment processing solutions to small and medium businesses.
Greatly increasing the reach of NCR.
This relationship began with the introduction of Vantiv Mobile check out powered by NCR Silver which provides small business owners with a complete solution to manage sales inventory and marketing.
We have steadily increased the value proposition of NCR Silver as we look to empower small business owners with advanced solutions that make running their businesses easier and provide transaction technologies that give them competitive differentiation.
Self-checkout remains another important growth driver for our Retail Solutions business and we remain strongly positioned in this category.
RBR's most recent report named NCR the world's largest supplier of retail self-checkout technologies with a 70% share of global shipments in 2012.
Our Hospitality vertical continues to generate strong growth.
Q2 revenues increased 22% year-over-year with year-over-year SaaS revenues and application sites up 36% and 31% respectively.
Overall revenue growth including growth from software and SaaS led to strong NPOI margin expansion.
During the quarter we made significant progress advancing our SaaS and innovative mobile e-commerce hospitality solutions.
Our SaaS-based Pulse Real-Time smartphone app continues to secure market adoption at Shake Shack locations and Hybrid Dining a U.K.
Burger King franchisee joining the 5 500 other restaurant locations that utilize this software.
Restaurant operators are driving strong activity with this solution as they recognize its ability to provide realtime insights into operational performance and help secure efficiency gains.
Our digital signage technology is gaining additional traction in the restaurant space with Dunkin' Donuts implementing our High Definition NCR Vitalcast solution at locations across the U.S.
Digital signage helps restaurant operators engage consumers and bringing their menus to life with visually compelling animations and messaging including nutritional information limited time offers and brand advertising.
In our Emerging Industries Q2 revenues decreased 5% year-over-year as expected.
The comparisons continue to reflect partial reduction of a large customer contract that we have talked on our recent calls.
Despite this during Q2 we successfully advance both our travel and technology and telecom businesses.
In travel China Southern Airlines agreed to deploy NCR TouchPort kiosk across 10 domestic hub airports.
In addition in early July Copa Airline a leading Latin America provider of passenger and cargo services agreed to launch a suite of NCR travel-based solutions including an NCR developed iPhone app the NCR APTRA eMarketing platform and NCR Web check-in software.
Our Technology and Telecom business signed a master service agreement with the North American Communications Resource NACR to provide complimentary support maintenance and managed services when implementing unified communications solutions in North America.
We believe the partnership will expand our telecom and technology service offerings and help drive future growth.
In addition during the quarter we signed master service agreements and expanded our relationships with a number of noteworthy global telecom providers.
We have expanded our offerings to include storefront solutions digital signage and SIM dispense which have been recently showcased in Europe the Middle East and Asia with great response.
Finally our services business continued its strong performance with revenues up 13% during the quarter as professional services grew 52% consistent with our strategy of being a leading global provider of software and SaaS application.
In April we received recognition from Gartner as the global market share leader in retail IT services product support being ranked #1 for the fourth consecutive year demonstrates NCR's unwavering commitment to being a leading global services organization.
In summary during the second quarter we drove strong results across the globe.
Our success is powered by our continued investment in advanced consumer transaction technologies that deliver value and differentiation for our customers.
Our focus on growing software SaaS and services revenues expanding into new markets and adjacencies and balancing growth initiatives with legacy issues is driving strong and consistent profitable growth and shareholder value.
We entered the second half of the year enthusiastic about our ongoing reinvention.
I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Peter.
NCR's total reported revenue in the second quarter was $1.54 billion up 9% versus Q2 2012 and up 10% on a constant currency basis.
We reported GAAP income from continuing operations of $86 million or $0.51 per diluted share.
This compares to GAAP income from continuing operations of $89 million or $0.54 per diluted share in Q2 2012.
NCR's results from continuing operations include special items in both periods.
Excluding pension and special items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.68 per share in Q2 2013 versus $0.65 in Q2 2012.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effect of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release and the supplementary non-GAAP material in the slides that Bill referred to earlier that reconcile our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q2 2013 gross margin was 28.9% compared to 27.3% in the prior-year period.
This 160 basis point increase was primarily driven by a favorable mix of revenue including higher software revenues and a continued focus on cost improvement initiatives.
Operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were approximately 17% of revenue in the second quarter of 2013 compared to 16.4% in the same period last year.
The company continues to invest in sales and R&amp;D.
Non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $182 million in the second quarter compared to $154 million in the prior-year period an increase of 18%.
Second quarter 2013 segment operating margins were as follows.
Financial services increased to 12.1% versus 10.9% in the prior-year quarter due to lower service delivery costs and reduced selling and research and development expenses in the second quarter of 2013 compared to the second quarter of 2012.
The lowest service delivery costs were primarily due to our reimbursement from a supplier of some previously incurred costs.
Retail Solutions increased to 9.5% from 6.8% in the prior-year quarter mainly due to a favorable mix of revenue including more software and the inclusion of the Retalix business.
Hospitality increased to 17.1% from 16.2% in the second quarter of 2012 primarily due to a favorable mix of revenue slightly offset by investments in SaaS sales and R&amp;D.
Emerging Industries decreased to 13.8% from 22.6% in the second quarter of 2012 primarily driven by the partial loss of a customer contract in our telecom and technology business as previously discussed.
Other expense was $29 million in Q2 2013 which is mainly related to interest expense.
Income tax expense was $23 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to expense of $28 million in Q2 2012.
Excluding the effect of pension and nonrecurring items the second quarter of 2013 effective tax rate was 25% compared to 26% in Q2 2012.
NCR's full year 2013 effective tax rate is expected to be 26%.
Turning to the balance sheet cash on hand at June 30 2013 was $460 million down from $483 million at March 31 2013.
The decrease in cash was primarily attributable to an $80 million pension settlement payment that we made to the U.S.
nonqualified pension plan during the second quarter of 2013.
Total debt was $2.16 billion at the end of Q2 2013 compared to $2.09 billion at end of March 2013.
Moving to the cash flow statement NCR used $32 million of cash and operating activities in Q2 2013 compared to $31 million of cash provided by operating activities in the prior-year period.
Excluding the $80 million pension settlement payment that we made to the U.S.
nonqualified pension plans during the quarter free cash flow was a cash outflow of $21 million in Q2 2013 compared to a cash outflow of $41 million in the prior-year period.
The decrease in free cash used was positively impacted by improvement in operating results period over period.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plant and equipment in addition to capitalized software.
We continue to expect free cash flow for full year 2013 to be in the range of $200 million to $250 million up from $146 million in 2012.
I'd like to conclude by discussing our guidance and providing an update on Phase 3 of our pension strategy.
The revenue guidance for our lines of business has not changed from our previous guidance provided during the Q1 earnings call.
The guidance for our lines of business include services and is on a constant currency basis.
In Financial Services we expect revenues to grow towards the lower end of the 2% to 4%.
In Hospitality we expect revenues to increase towards the higher end of the 15% to 18%.
In Retail we expect revenues to rise towards the higher end of the 22% to 25%.
Excluding Retalix Retail revenues are expected to grow 7% to 9%.
In our Emerging Industries line of business we expect revenues to be up 3% to 5%.
We're also reaffirming our previously issued overall GAAP and non-GAAP guidance.
In terms of total revenue we expect 9% 11% growth on a constant currency basis.
Our 2013 NPOI estimate is $700 million to $720 million and our non-GAAP EPS guidance is $2.70 to $2.80.
For Q3 up we expect NPOI to be in the range of $175 million to $180 million a growth of 14% to 18% year-over-year.
Additionally we expect the Q3 effective tax rate to be approximately 27% and other expense net including interest expense to be approximately $25 million in the third quarter.
Turning now to an update on Phase 3 of our pension strategy.
I've included 2 charts at the end of Bill's presentation that might be helpful.
Please see Slides 9 and 10.
We announced our Phase 3 pension strategy last quarter which will involve a number of initiatives to be completed by the end of 2014.
As you can see on Slide 9 we have a number of financial goals that we plan to achieve which should increase free cash flow and further reduce the underfunded status of our plans and overall pension liability.
We expect to achieve these benefits through economically attractive transactions that further reduce administrative costs and reduce balance sheet risk.
On Slide 10 we have a summary of the key initiatives and an update as to where we are today.
You will recall that in Q1 we terminated our supplemental executive retirement plan or SERP.
First round payments were made in June with final-round payments scheduled for Q2 2014.
This has reduced our global underfunded pension from $468 million coming into 2013 by approximately $95 million.
Additionally we completed an early retirement offer through the U.S.
pension plan which has been accepted by approximately 400 U.S.
employees.
We are progressing on track with other lump sum offers to certain U.S.
deferred vested participants not included in the 2012 offer as well as retirees in the U.S.
qualified plan subject to any regulatory approval.
We also have plans to pre-fund 1 or more of our international plans and to pre-fund the U.S.
plan to further reduce interest rate and funding risk by year-end 2014.
To that end we just completed refinancing our credit facility which raised an additional $300 million $80 million of which was used to pay down the Q2 draw on our revolver for the SERP termination.
We expect that additional contributions to the U.S.
plan will follow before the end of next year.
Lastly as you know we implemented mark-to-market accounting in Q1.
We believe this change increases the transparency of our pension accounting.
We are dedicated to removing pension as an issue for our investors and are proud of the accomplishments we have made thus far.
We are on track with where we intended to be and believe the work we have to do over the next 1.5 year will drive more meaningful benefits as we continue to seek to reduce volatility de-risk the balance sheet and make the company easier to understand.
And with that I will open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Bill you mentioned that you got pretty good visibility into some kind of stabilization or growth in the Financial Services sector in the fourth quarter.
Can you also talk about -- well can you talk about that? And also this branch transformation can you give us a little bit of color around where that's headed and as we look into 2014? Sure.
First of all right now as we can see Paul today we'll have starting in Q4 I believe begin to grow the Financial Services business yet again on the order book side of things.
And hence improve our backlog position a bit going into 2014.
By the way our order book outside of North America is actually okay in this business.
And the return to growth will come from seeing improvement in North America particularly the U.S.
Branch transformation will play a key role.
In that we had a good quarter in Q2 solid growth as we noted on Slide 5.
And by the way that's sequential growth over Q1 not year-on-year in that business.
We're on track to hit the targets we have given you before in that business of around $80 million to $100 million in revenue this year.
And I suspect 2014 is a move from if you will pilots to production for a number of our customers.
And I suspect that in 2014 that business will grow to about $200 million in total revenue right now.
Now it could be a somewhat less than that or more than that depending upon what happens the next 5 months relative to some of these pilots we have going on.
But again I'm very encouraged with what I see there going into 2014 and '15.
Research Division</strong> My impression on talking to the Chase guys is that we're moving beyond pilots to actually implementation now.
But I still don't quite know how to connect that to NCR's prospects.
Can you give us some sense of what the real revenue items are for you that kind of derive from branch transformation? Is it a complete overhaul? Is it 1 in 10 terminals? Is it a higher value terminal et cetera? Well it's actually a completely different branch format Paul that banks who are looking to deploy than you would currently see today in the marketplace.
Different kinds of branches different formats different sizes and using technology more effectively to if you will to migrate high-cost low-value transactions through an automated device but also free up the teller or the bank employee to spend more time with customers.
I would say that if you look at the facts right now in the U.S.
there is about 80 000 branches in the U.S.
There's about $205 million -- billion spent annually in fixed costs around real estate and labor for branches.
And so the opportunity for banks is obvious.
It's to reduce that cost substantially but the play is actually not just cost reduction.
For them it's around revenue generation.
As you know fewer people are going into bank branches.
They're having a higher cost per transaction in the branch today and we can help on both sides of that equation with our software and hardware solution set.
And so the marketplace is actually quite large.
It's quite substantial not just in the U.S.
but outside the U.S.
Did you want to add anything John? Sure.
Paul it's John Bruno.
I'd say the way that I'd like you to think about it is you typically think of NCR as a drive-through or a vestibule or an ATM piece of technology.
But as Bill pointed out the capital expenditure to really revamp the customer experience in branch in various different formats smaller and larger is really with displays.
So we have offers now in everything from professional services capabilities and assessment to helping with the actual design of the facilities the digital signage integration.
And in addition to the machines we offer which are the ones that you traditionally would understand but also the net new machines which could be cashless or a contact-based devices that are for other net new transactions that may not even take cash and/or check may handle bill pay or online issues because that's as team it was in the bank that you're describing has done an excellent job in thinking about how it is they're dealing with customer acquisitions.
They're trying to deal with a consumer that's starting transactions online on mobile and potentially finishing them or starting them in the store finishing them online.
So this technology is manifesting itself in a variety of net new products and services which are software-based professional services based consulting based as well as the machine types and then a whole net new variant machines.
And my last point there is because not only the ATM transactions and off loading a piece as Bill talked about but everything that sits behind the counter that is facing a teller today is being revamped to more contemporary architecture.
And to get greater utilization we're working with the retail branches to make that convertible.
There's no reason that all that fixed-cost asset that's for the past decade has been purely just teller facing can't be both teller facing and consumer facing in low-peak hours.
So that is a complete rethink of the way in which a consumer engages in a retail experience than a bank branch.
And so it hits every element of our P&amp;L space beyond just the hardware.
And one more thing Paul this is not only about putting a bunch of $1 and $5 bills in a cartridge and putting it in an ATM in the branch.
This is about dealing with workflow issues in the branch choreography between employees and customers.
There's a lot that's going into branch transformation that John spoke about holistically and we're involved in every piece of that puzzle from consulting to implementation of that kind of a solution.
So what you're seeing today is more around putting an ATM-like function in the branch rather than dealing with the high cost of workflow in the branch which is what we're tackling.
Now we're doing both by the way.
We're putting ATMs with video interfaces in branches.
We're doing what everyone else is doing along those lines but what we're doing is quite unique in that ultimately we're going to change the way the work process and workflow is designed for banks and branch banking.
We'll hear next from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bob I was surprised to see the Financial Services margin up given the mix shift outside of the U.S..
Can you just quantify the one-time reimbursement were the margin and the profit dollars up even excluding that reimbursement? And if so what's driving that? Yes what we've tried to do with financial as we saw that the difficult compares from last year in North America from a revenue perspective and looked into kind of Q2 and Q3 of this year really focused on the expenses in that business and the costs.
So we've gone after the sales the R&amp;D.
We've looked at margin we've looked at continuous improvement within financial and really tried to optimize the operating margin as best we could.
And so you'll remember Katy back at the Analyst Day we talked about financial service operating margins for the next 3 years would be somewhere between 11% and 13%.
Last year we finished at 10%.
In Q1 we were at 8% which is typical for that financial line of business then up to 12% here.
I still think we'll settle in a range that shows something between 50 to 100 basis points of operating margin for 2012 -- for 2013.
We'll continue to be very very focused on not just the top line but also the operating margin.
We did have some reimbursement of costs but I think primarily what you saw is just good focus on cost containment and expenses in the quarter.
Again I don't want to paint a picture that says it's 12% for the balance of the year.
And that's why I temper it with something between 50 to 100 basis points of improvement in financial.
And then as Bill alluded to as the financial revenue starts to ramp next year especially with the higher-margin branch transformation business that's when things start to get more interesting in Financial.
Yes Katy I add 1 thing on this topic.
We're going to invest more in Q3 Q4 in particular in R&amp;D.
We have to get behind our branch transformation solutions with a bit more heft in investment.
Some of that will be recycled from other areas.
Some will be net new.
And so that will have a negative impact on operating income margins in the back half of the year.
But to Bob's point we expect to see an improvement year-on-year in that business regardless because we are -- I think we always been quite good.
When we hit the brakes because we see what's coming we have great visibility in terms of what's coming.
We hit them quickly.
And I think operationally in a sound way.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So some margin expansion this year and then if the revenues grow next year you could see a little bit more in 2014? It's revenue and mix right.
Next year it will be revenue growth and mix story given branch transformation is a higher-margin solution.
And we expect to have more software next year in the mix as well in PS as we roll out some of our new solutions in software.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on the Retail business the 6% growth x Retalix.
Obviously much better number than where you're tracking last year but it was down from the 27% growth I believe last quarter.
Is that just a difference in timing of Walmart self-checkout orders that showed up in the first quarter and not as much of that in the second quarter? Or what else drove that deceleration? Yes.
By the way on that point though we did have a good quarter year-on-year in self-checkout.
As noted on Page 5 the orders are -- the revenue is was up 33% year-on-year.
But with the order book the self-checkout was also quite good in Q2.
So I was pleased with that.
It was up over 30% year-on-year in orders in Q2.
So it did not slow down tremendously and it was a mix of customers it came from not just 1.
And Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna has our next question.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So today you're raising retail guidance at the higher end of your guidance that you had given back in Q1.
If you look at Retalix it was about $50 million in Q1 and about $82 million this quarter.
If you assume a similar run rate in the second half you get to about $295 million which is above the $250 million to $260 million guidance for the year.
So can you help us understand some of your assumptions behind your Retalix guidance for the year? Mag I think we're being conservative right now to be very candid with you.
We own this business for a quarter and half.
We have a lot to learn before we are as comfortable as we are with the rest of NCR vis-à-vis guidance to take it up.
But right now I would not be surprised if they did come in that range.
However it's too early to call and we just simply don't know enough yet.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to self-checkout it was another good quarter but excluding Walmart Bill can you talk about some of the discussions you've been having with other retailers who want to adopt this similar model? Yes I'm encouraged with self-checkout.
As I said we had a good order book in Q2.
It was a mix of customers from around the world.
Australia Europe U.S.
so it was not 1 customer in particular that drove our success.
Orders the size of Walmart however are difficult to repeat.
However I do think we are having substitutive discussions with a number of customers that could be equal to that size over the course of the next year.
So I remain enthusiastic about the general global acceptance of self-checkout and what that means to our balance and continued growth.
And then these large customers who are beginning to move to NCR as a platform for self-checkout and could close in the same kind of range that we saw at Walmart over the course of the next 2 quarters.
We'll hear now from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
It's Tom Narayan for Ian.
I guess piggy backing on the last question on guidance and you guys are saying you're being I guess conservative.
Is there anything specific to this quarter may be that's causing you not to maybe re-evaluate or raise guidance like you did last quarter? Well my comment was specific to conservatism with regards to Retalix.
But relatively speaking I'd say the 1 caution flag that I'm keeping my eyes closely on is North America Financial.
As I said we have had great success in financial generally outside of the U.S..
The U.S.
remains slow.
We were down 17% year-on-year in revenue in the U.S.
marketplace in financial.
It was the key issue for us.
We're the only thing not humming at NCR is North America Financial.
Now the good news is the diversity of this company today is so vast we can withstand this kind of a hit to our overall revenues and profit.
When that business gets going the leverage is enormous on our P&amp;L.
So I'm watching that closely.
That's why I wasn't as open to raising guidance right now.
Okay.
And on the credit facility raise on Friday I guess you said you put $80 million of it towards re-upping the revolver.
What was the rest of it for? Is it just general kind of corporate reasons or is there anything specific? Yes.
I would think of it as primarily for Phase 3 pension.
So it could be international pre-fund it could be a U.S.
pre-fund.
We're working through the different options but think of it as Phase 3 pension.
We'll hear next with Dan Perlin from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Since Financial Services is bifurcated right now where you've got something a lot of growth outside the United States and then North America obviously was down.
Can you just remind us kind of what the mix in that segment is North America versus rest of the world? And then also can you just remind us kind of the recurring piece of that business for maintenance? How much of that is? Yes.
In North America I don't think [indiscernible] guess on this but I think it's.
We'll get you that.
In Q1 U.S.
was 25% of Financial revenue.
In Q2 it's 20% to 25%.
In that range.
So it shows the diversification that we do have internationally.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 25% U.S.
everything else is rest of the world.
And I want to remember like almost half of the division is tied to some sort of either recurring maintenance or other services fee stream is that accurate or is it changing a little bit over time? About half the revenues in Financial are services driven.
So some of that is customer services some of that is professional services.
Most of it's actually [indiscernible] customer services business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when we talk about the down 17% and then going into the fourth quarter with the order book picking up we're really talking about really 1/4 of that division and then some of that really is recurring so it's a little bit less than that.
So that -- I'm just trying to get a sense of magnitude to turn it in your favor so to speak.
Yes I think the best way to think about that Dan is to think about that again right now as we look at all the cylinders of this car that's the 1 cylinder not hitting is North America Financial.
It does represent 1/4 of our business.
You can think also about 1/4 of our maintenance business as well and attach on that business.
Generally speaking I think it has a meaningful both the topline growth but also margins.
If the U.S.
National Bank small bank segment gets going it can have a meaningful impact on our overall gross margin and net margin in that business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a question for Bob I'm often kind of wondering this quarter was not all that dissimilar.
Why not -- why can't the business generate a higher cash flow conversion rate? Is there something embedded with just the pension accounting that runs through everything that makes it that much more challenging? Or I just have a hard time dissecting that.
So any kind of light would be helpful.
I mean [indiscernible] cash flow.
A lot of it is we build inventories and working capital to deliver a big Q4.
So historically what we've seen is a lot of our free cash flow comes in the fourth quarter of the year.
As hard as we try to smooth that out and believe me we try it just so happens that because of the way our revenues flow a lot of that free cash flow happens in the fourth quarter.
The pension contributions you're right are pretty steady at throughout the year so that doesn't help.
But that's primarily what you'll see if you look back over the last couple of years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 last 1 on Hospitality and kind of the demand can you parse that a little bit in terms of where the pockets are? Historically you've seen a lot of really good growth in the large chains QSR in particular.
And I'm wondering is that still your sweet spot? You mentioned a little bit in the smaller restaurants so I'm wondering if you're seeing share gains also in more table service? Yes first of all Hospitality had a great quarter in terms of balanced performance across key geographies.
So we had a great quarter in the Americas the EMEA and APGA.
So balance is solid.
Secondly if you parse out the business channel SMB for us small and medium business had a terrific quarter as noted on Page 5 and that was up almost 40% year-on-year.
And so small restaurants through other channels are beginning to make a meaningful impact on our revenue stream.
But quick service had a great quarter in particular software in quick service had a great quarter.
Table side continues to do well for us both small and medium business as well as large customers in that space.
We're doing a nice job of getting ourselves in Europe better situated in Europe and also Asia Pacific.
Any other comments Peter? Just 1 other comment would be continued traction with franchises as we see expansion of our solution move into the franchisee locations that's been a great source of proliferation of the technology as well.
And Kartik Mehta with North Coast Research has our next question.
Just a couple of questions on the U.S.
ATM side.
I'm interested in your perspective right now is there any difference in the market in terms of large national banks versus regionals? Are you seeing 1 category of financial institution spend over another? Or is it about the same? I think all these Nationals are doing a bit better than the smaller banks regionals as well as a credit union style banks.
Remember last year there was a big secular upgrade cycle and most of those smaller banks as you know Kartik upgraded most of their fleets in terms of everything from an innards of an ATM CPU memory software right out to of course being prepared for the regulatory upgrade cycle.
And so we had a significant growth period from probably Q1 to late Q3 as a result of that.
That will begin to circle back with Windows 7 upgrades coming later this year early next year.
And you'll begin to see more of a steady flow of that business in that space.
But I think that's more 2014 in terms of revenue realization not 2013.
Large nationals continue to roll out deposit.
They continue to be active in particular in branch transformation.
And on an overall basis that segment continues to be more steady.
Do you agree with that Peter? Absolutely.
And then just Bill your thoughts in Europe fundamentally for ATMs at least to what you're seeing where you might be seeing some growth or whether you see some -- if you see any pockets of weakness? Yes we had again the emerging markets was solid.
I cited earlier in my presentation China Brazil and India but Turkey had a great quarter for us.
Western Europe was up and down.
We grew year-on-year.
Revenues and financial services in EMEA as a whole as a company so it was not a bad quarter by any measure of how you look at the business given the circumstances we're faced with there.
But I would say Western Europe slower or kind of steady as it goes.
Turkey emerging markets better.
Russia was a slow quarter for us in Q2.
Will to be a better back half of the year there.
And Matt Summerville with KeyBanc has our next question.
Research Division</strong> Just 1 on Hospitality and then 1 follow-up.
The growth you're seeing around 20% how much would you say is being generated by the acquisition of a brand new site that is not running anything Radiant-related whether it be an existing customer or nonexisting customer versus growth in the application base with the current install base? Do you know what I mean? Yes Matt.
There are 2 ways we measure that.
One is SaaS sites which are net new.
And the other is just looking at the business and getting a good understanding of what install base customers are buying versus new.
I don't have the exact numbers in front of me but SMB to the channel is a lot of net new so that growth is mostly net new customers SaaS new sites net new customers.
And then we've had a few larger customers buy from us this quarter who've not been traditionally our customers.
Research Division</strong> And then Bob I'm just still trying to sort out this ATM profitability per Katy's question and the comment Bill made talking about how North America can be a pretty a lucrative.
So it'd really be helpful if we had that ATM reimbursement number in dollars.
We chose not to break that out separately Matt.
It's a bit complicated.
What I would say is that the profitability came from the lower service delivery costs emphasis on selling and R&amp;D.
And again the point I was trying to make Matt was don't get ahead of us here.
You see that 12% operating margin think of it for the full year as being up 50 to 100 basis points over last year's 10% operating margin.
So that's the way you should think of the financial line of business.
Obviously if we get more branch transformation revenue that helps.
And certainly as part of our Analyst Day in November we'll model out the next 3 years for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that it's complicated.
But in absolute dollars is profitability up or not in the ATM business excluding that reimbursement? It definitely was up.
Research Division</strong> So it's less than $10 million? The -- yes in terms of what? The supplier reimbursement? Research Division</strong> Yes.
In the quarter? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just trying to understand what the margin -- I'm not sure why that's not something you disclosed.
I'm just trying to understand what the profitability...
I'll tell you why it's a little complicated Matt and I appreciate the healthy push back but it's a netting of cost that we've incurred over the last 12 to 18 months.
So it's -- that's why it's a bit complicated.
Operating margins are up excluding that a heavy focus on expenses.
Do not get ahead of us and start modeling out 12% for the full year Matt think of it as a 50 to 100 basis points up.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm not confused about that at all.
We'll go on to Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I want to get a little bit of a sense of how much branch transformation is incremental.
Let's say you were selling the banks that you're going to generate $100 million of branch transformation revenue from this year.
If the technology wasn't available and you were just selling them ATMs and software and the services that go with that.
How much revenue would you have generated from those same banks if they were just coming in for the product set that you currently sell? It's all incremental.
It's 100% incremental.
We wouldn't be selling ATMs that sit inside the branch in the same configuration we sell express banking or Interactive Teller.
Research Division</strong> So I guess my question is if those branches -- if those banks chose to have a standard branch instead of this type of branch how much would they be spending on ATM software and services? I got you.
There will be a more traditional customer Gil in buying ATMs for both in lobby and then for distribution.
All of the revenues that have traditionally gone to the current players in the branch are shifting a bit both in terms of software and hardware.
And you'll see companies like NCR begin to move into that adjacency that's now an adjacency for us but also market share gains generally in terms of hardware and software in the branch.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of -- now that you've integrated Retalix and it seems to be going well are you looking again at M&amp;A? When you look at the 2015 targets that you laid out at the last Analyst Day do you think those targets are doable without doing additional deals? Or are you already starting to look for deals similar to Retalix and Radiant? I think all of those targets are doable with the small roll-ups and acquisitions we have already discussed we'll do over time.
Nothing of significance.
Right now Gil we're focused on pension Phase 3 the integration of Retalix and Radiant.
Radiant by the way is finally integrated this quarter.
Both -- by the way both of those assets are doing extraordinarily well.
The fit was near perfect.
They have great talent.
We're executing to our plans.
We're well above our plans in some cases.
Synergies are being realized both revenue and cost.
I think there's more revenue synergies in Retalix than we originally thought.
And if something would've come along Gil that was superb fit like those 2 companies we would look at it and we would certainly figure a way how to fit that into our long-term plan because again we feel like we have a tremendous future in this company both organically and vis-à-vis our reinvention goals.
And we're going to continue to look for assets that fit.
Now we're spending more of our time on other things but if something comes along that is like of those 2 we'll take a serious look at it.
And now we'll go to John Williams with UBS.
Very quickly I just wanted to touch on the dynamics within the Silver business.
I know you have a brief update earlier.
But I was just curious as you think about that what's the uptake been? Who is really your addressable market? And how do you see that playing out over the next year or so? Yes we have a couple of thousand customers today which is slower than we'd like.
But we are bringing on new distribution partners.
Vantiv the most recent partner we've brought on is beginning to ramp up.
We're talking to other potential distribution partners as well.
We still feel very very optimistic about that business medium to long term.
We talked about the dynamics of that business being in our favor in terms of small merchants moving to mobile point-of-sale and some of the powerful applications we provide for them.
And we also are beginning to feel more comfortable we have the right overall distribution strategy in that space.
But right now I say that's our #1 focus.
We should be able to get some substantial growth in terms of users over the next 12 months.
But John do you have any comment on that? No I think it's right Bill.
I mean that part of the business the small business market I mean there's approximately 8 million or so small businesses in that space.
They spend about $16 billion on technology.
It's a very interesting space for us and we like it because it sits in the center point of what we do.
When we're out there they're all confused by how do they integrate point of service plus promotion plus loyalty.
And it's Silver -- with Silver solution we're trying to get that solution right.
Not overly complex needs to be easy to implement easy to use and ongoing as both a software and a SaaS model.
So for us we're spending less time now on the technology itself and the platform which is where we've spend our time in the past.
And the lion's share of our time on the distribution channels and the take rates on how we get that moving up because it is a different sales motion than what you would expect for traditional retail which is very different than what we do.
So getting that right is important and that's where our focus and intention is.
Is the expectation -- and maybe this is more for John is the expectation that this is something that could see the potential future customer? Or is it just really to protect the flank so to speak so that you don't lose somebody to a square or another emerging tablet that could potentially take a customer away for good? Yes so it's a bit of both and let me answer that.
And it's also a bit of a learning for our legacy businesses as well and the Enterprise business let me explain why I mean that.
So when you look at the ultra low end of the market you mentioned Square very very different customer base smaller than even and a different customer base the one that I've just alluded to.
The Silver is targeting more of the merchants that are small businesses in fixed locations typical main street high street-type locations that have inventory a point-of-sale and doing some promotional loyalty versus potentially where Square has focused it's time which has been further down market those people that are purely-only cash-only type merchant.
So yes we look at it in our business to watch and then following the low-end market moving up.
But also we learn an awful lot about the top end of the market and the enterprise as they push their way down.
So our whole platform in the Silver space is as informative to our Counterpoint business and our Hospitality small business as it is to the ultra low end of the market where Square plays today.
So it is a very wide open market it's very large.
And we're trying to make sure that we get the technology right the price sensitivity right of what people will pay for in value.
And you can do the math when I talk about 8 million merchants in that target space that spend $16 billion that's roughly $2 000 per merchant on technology.
So we've got to get the offer right the sensitivity right and ensure that the value is there.
When it's there and it's easy to acquire they purchase it in spades.
Okay.
If I could just sneak one last 1 in for Bill.
Just as you think about you size the opportunity for EMV on the ATMs side.
I noticed you've gone through the various cycles throughout the last few year's like ADA for instance.
That was potentially reasonably incremental for you over the years and it seemed to work that way.
But how do you think of EMV is it nearly of the same size opportunity? It doesn't sound like it would be but I guess how incremental could that be for you over the next few years? EMV will be mainly a retail opportunity for us.
There'll be some implications to Financial Services but less so than the Windows 7 upgrade cycle will be.
The combination of those 2 will not eclipse the ADA cycle in my opinion in terms of size and scope.
They'll be meaningful.
They'll be nonsecular growth in nature particularly in the U.S..
But not as significant in size.
So when you think EMV for NCR think some aspect of that will be Financial Services but the big play for us is in Retail.
Okay.
So not so much it's probably more popping things out on ATMs and just replacing pieces versus replacing whole units? That's correct.
Yes thank you.
And thank you all for joining us today.
I think that's the final question.
We look forward to seeing you again or talking to you again in October.
Again that will conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining us.
Good day and welcome to the NCR Corporation Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Tracy Krumme Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining our Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Joining me on the call today are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Bruno Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer; Peter Leav EVP and President Industry and Field Operation; and Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer.
Our presentations and discussions today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and in our periodic filings with the SEC including our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will be referring to a presentation posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings release and are also available on the Investor section of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of October 24 2013 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this call whether as a result of new information or future events.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Tracy and good afternoon to all of you.
I'm on Slide 2.
And I'd like to kick off today's discussion first with regard to strategic execution that I think is equally adding to tactical results or operational execution along the way.
Software revenues were up close to 40% and the quarter for us was just about shy of $200 million in the quarter on software and we will meet our software guidance this year that we've given you of somewhere between $725 million and $775 million in software revenue so on track there.
It was a good quarter on software very balanced by the way across all lines of businesses.
In a moment I'll have John Bruno take you through some of the particulars vis-à-vis each line of business and how they performed and you'll see that the balance of our software revenues had improved and in my view were getting a bit better across all of the industries.
Services continues to be a key driver for us.
It was up 12% year-on-year.
Our professional services is up significantly well above that.
And that's attributed to a software business growing as dramatically as it is for us across all lines of businesses.
And what we're seeing as well that we're keeping an eye on Bob and I look at consistently as recurring revenues and making sure that the recurring revenue year-on-year is growing in particular in the high margin spaces.
When you think about our strategy as a company 1 of the areas that we're very focused on is diversity.
Diversity of revenue by geography and by industry and making sure that we're delivering long-term sustainable and balanced growth.
In this current quarter we did see good results from hospitality and retail on the top line again led by software and services.
However I was pleased with Financial Services' operating income margins.
They expanded quite well in the quarter.
As a result they are also of software and services a better overall mix of revenue.
And we continue to see some of our new technologies like branch transformation move in the right direction in the quarter.
We'll talk more about that in John's section and also I'm sure in Q&amp;A.
And Retalix continues to go in a good direction in Q3.
We saw a good quarter out of Retalix and they were meaningful to our results in the quarter.
Along the way we are also focused on our legacy issues.
Bob will talk about pension Phase III but a lot took place in the quarter along those lines and we'll update you as to where we are.
And of course we continue to work on productivity quality efficiency programs as well.
Moving on to the next slide Slide 4.
Here are the stats or the metrics on the quarter.
Revenue up 5% quite balanced across all major geographies.
I'm very pleased with the expansion of our margins again driven by software.
And for us we're not record builders but we do look at records and are very proud of the fact that this is the first time in our history that we've hit an NPOI margin in the quarter of over 12% with NPOI up 21% year-on-year.
And you'll hear from Bob as well we're reaffirming our guidance for the year.
Let me also now throw it over to John.
John Bruno will give you some particulars by line of business.
John? Thanks Bill.
I'm moving on Slide 5 and we put here a series of areas of our performance against our key developments in each of the industries we focus on.
What I thought I would do is give you a little bit of color behind some of the numbers and some of the text.
So first let me start with Financial Services.
Although our Q3 orders improved sustaining growth in Q4 is very important to us in maintaining momentum.
And we're very pleased with the better mix of business in Q3 and entered Q4 with a stronger backlog position from an overall mix perspective demonstrating traction against our areas of strategic focus in particular software and branch transformation.
From a software perspective we're up 10% on a software growth basis and 8% on SaaS.
And from a branch transformation perspective we had a really good mix of segments from Tier 1 on down to smaller banks and across geographies showing interest in this growing area.
The North American majors and mid-majors remain a challenge for us.
And as Bill mentioned on the Q2 call the key metric for us is Q4 orders and we're gaining confidence in the businesses there and we'll deliver year-over-year growth of orders based on the funnel activity that we've seen thus far.
From an emerging markets perspective in Financial Services I'd summarize it and say we're very pleased with our growth outside of North America in particular China with 12% revenue growth year-on-year and India delivering 72% growth year-on-year.
If I turn to Retail business.
This is a business that we permanently transformed through the acquisitions of Radiant and Retalix and I'll provide you a brief Retalix acquisition update in a moment.
But we're demonstrating that our decision to be acquisitive in this space is paying off.
You can see the effect of Retalix acquisition in our Q3 results as we've improved the mix and profit in our retail business and we've compensated for a flat quarter Retail business on a constant currency basis.
The software growth is 124% revenue growth 252% of that being SaaS.
And if you take Retalix out of that mix it's still 23% software growth and 89% SaaS.
So despite being pleased with our strategic execution we do remain focused on the core of our Retail business both point-of-sale and self-checkout.
We're encouraged with the progress we're making and customer interest and wins both existing and new in our innovative platforms.
Unfortunately we can't publicly discuss these sizable recent wins but what I can say is our customers are validating the competitive differentiation we've created.
And these plus solid acquisition integrations are core to our strategic execution.
And it is always about execution.
We exited Q3 with double-digit backlog growth positioning us well for Q4.
But we're not pleased with our revenue conversion for the quarter and that's an area of focus for us as we continue to drive this business.
If I turn to Hospitality.
We've experienced terrific revenue growth in Q3 and we're experiencing market share growth in Hospitality and SMB small to medium businesses through expansion as well as through investment as we strengthen our business market by market.
In that business you can see on the numbers that we do continue to invest with expenses up 25% having a slight impact on operating margin rate but our overall operating margin dollars grew and we feel very good about the additional investments to establish a platform and growth in this business.
As I look at the emerging businesses overall Q3 was a pretty good quarter as we're normalizing through regrettable loss a year ago in our Telecom and Technology business.
Our T&amp;T team has done a good job diversifying this business and building a pipeline of business.
We can see a growing face of customers and a set of managed services growing in this space for NCR going forward.
And T&amp;T is our most profitable business so progress here has an impact overall and it's larger than its revenue contribution and we're confident that this will allow us ability to return to revenue growth based on the signs that we've seen thus far in the activities the team is working on.
Travel remains smaller but continues to grow nicely as the team remains focused on ancillary revenue generating software and hardware solutions for the airlines as well as going after broader technology and service offers for larger airport authorities.
So now what I'd like to do is turn your attention to Slide 6 and update you on the acquisition integration of Retalix.
We'll break it down quantitatively and qualitatively.
So quantitatively we're pleased.
We expect approximately $5 million to $10 million of pre-tax cost synergies in 2013 and approximately $20 million to $25 million of annualized pre-tax cost synergies in 3 years.
We also expect this acquisition to be accretive to non-GAAP earnings in 2013.
Qualitatively it's a great story.
The team we acquired is excellent.
The capabilities that they've added to an already existing strong team in our Retail business is proving to be powerful as we design sell and implement and service our customers.
The cross-selling opportunities we're seeing are materializing and we expect our conversations with customers to allow us the opportunity to position our broader portfolio and that's working out extremely well.
This is an area we're confident will continue to deliver value to our customers and shareholders moving forward.
And these results overall demonstrates solid execution cross-functionally and give us confidence in our acquisition integration capabilities as well as our ability to grow the companies we add to NCR.
So now let me turn it back over to Bill so he can summarize our overall Q3 execution.
Thanks John.
I'm on Slide 7.
And before I throw it over to Peter Leav I wanted to make a few comments.
Back to this notion that's important to us that strategy cannot trump operational results.
And likewise tactical execution can't trump strategy.
And for us we're trying to strike that balance vis-à-vis the reinvention of this great company.
And I feel very good about that balance.
And I feel really good about the performance of the company in the quarter as a result of that and the trajectory that we're on over the short and long term.
We talked about these initiatives and how they might manifest itself in the results.
And certainly software and services are 2 important metrics that we look at.
But the bottom line is are we growing the top line and expanding our margins along the way.
And we have now long-term track record of now 15 quarters in a row of year-on-year growth both on the top line and the bottom line.
And that's something we intend to work hard to continue to do.
We are also investing in this business.
I mean it's clear that if you look at our expense line we're investing in the areas where we should be investing and we're being cautious around spending in the areas where we need to be cautious in spending.
And we're lining up the investments and the innovation dollars accordingly across the business.
Hence John pointed out earlier the impact that our expenses and year-over-year growth in Hospitality has had on operating income margins.
That will come back to benefit us in years to come because we're putting more money into R&amp;D and sales as an example.
But there are plenty of other examples like that around the company that we don't have enough time to go into today but that balancing act is something we work hard on every single day in the company.
We've always believed that diversification of revenue be it geography or industry was important to de-risk the company able to give us greater elements of growth in terms of the profile of growth we can drive and also sustainability long term so that we would be somewhat less impacted by shocks in an industry or shocks in a market.
And we have done a good job and continued to if you look at this quarter of driving very balanced growth across the geographies and industries we serve fairly well.
And then always it comes down to making sure when you are a 130 years old that you don't forget there's a number of legacy issues you need to continue to focus on.
And that every day you have to tackle those issues so that you can transform yourself to be more contemporary around the world the way it is versus the world the way it was.
And whether it's the work we've done on pension that continue to do there or the work on other issues you don't see day-in and day-out I'm very pleased with the progress we've made this quarter.
Okay.
Peter Leav you're up.
Great.
Thank you Bill.
As Bill mentioned third quarter results reflected steady execution across our lines of business and the ongoing progress we have made reinventing NCR.
Strong results in Hospitality Retail and the impact of our ongoing transformation though a greater mix of higher-margin software revenue drove our overall performance.
The contribution of software which we define as software software-as-a-service and software maintenance increased 38% year-over-year.
We remain focused on driving the evolution of the interaction between consumers and business.
Our value proposition is clear to our customers and is evidenced by continued wins in each of our lines of business as well as our steady and successful expansion into new markets and adjacencies.
Turning now to our business review beginning with Financial Services.
Revenues were down 4% during the quarter due predominantly to the expected decline in North America and to a lesser extent a decline in Europe.
We experienced good growth outside of the U.S.
particularly in Asia Middle East Africa including China and India where we had double-digit revenue growth year-over-year.
Financial Services software revenue grew 10% year-over-year faster than our overall business in the segment.
We remain enthusiastic about the opportunities in branch transformation.
Our customer base is growing with 16 new APTRA Interactive services customers added during the quarter up 20% over the last quarter.
Our branch transformation solutions are designed to deliver and improve banking experience to consumers while also helping to secure loyalty and productivity gains for financial institutions.
The ROI delivered to our customers is demonstrated by North Peace Savings and Credit Union NPSCU which recently won the National Credit Union Innovation Award Canada for its implementation of our interactive video technology.
According to NPSCU in the 12-month period following installation of the technology nearly 1/2 of its retail members used the solution with a satisfaction rating of 79%.
In the same period NPSCU saw its net assets grow 13% and membership grow nearly 6%.
Looking at key international wins in the quarter we secured multiple self-service ATM wins in China totaling 4 000 units.
Also the Bank of Ningbo deployed NCR APTRA Edge our multi-vendor software application across its fleet of over 500 ATMs.
Outside of China FNB 1 of South Africa's largest financial institutions is installing SelfServ.
And our Predictive Services offering was deployed at National Australia Bank.
Turning to Retail.
We reported strong results in the quarter with revenues up 17%.
This top line performance includes software revenue growth of 124% driven primarily by the addition of Retalix to our Retail Solutions portfolio.
The strong growth in higher-margin software revenues led to solid operating margin expansion of 340 basis points during the quarter.
Like NCR the retail market is undergoing a transformation and this provides us with a great opportunity.
Our customers increasingly need future-ready solutions that allow them to engage with consumers in exciting new ways.
We believe that no other company is better positioned than NCR to help retailers of all sizes benefit from multiple sales channels while providing a consistent seamless and personalized shopping experience for their customers.
The combination of Retalix Radiant and NCR puts us in a stronger position to target new markets focus on customer and market segmentation and build greater customer intimacy.
Our R10 platform revolutionizes the retail technology landscape by providing 1 innovative platform across all channels including store online and mobile; and across retail segments such as grocery mass merchandise petroleum and convenience.
Our robust retail technology and software offerings enabled point-of-sale self-checkout and mobile-based payments for retailers of all sizes.
We remain the global leader in self-checkout solutions and our NCR Silver solution provides the complete sales inventory and marketing platform for small business owners.
During the quarter our Retail team secured a number of key customer wins including a self-checkout and POS agreement with a large North American general merchandise retailer as well as a large R10 order from a specialty retailer.
In addition NCR was selected to provide retail technology solutions to 4 major shopping malls in China that seek to offer an enhanced checkout experience to shoppers and drive sales and customer satisfaction gains.
We also extended our agreement with Globus Russia who will expand its deployment of NCR self-checkout solutions to additional cities in Russia following the successful introduction of those solutions into markets last year.
In Hospitality we are driving solid results through our commitment to superior customer service and solutions that offer customers flexibility.
During Q3 we generated strong top line performance increased our software and SaaS revenues and drove increased operating income.
Hospitality revenue has increased 25% during Q3.
Year-over-year software revenues were up 33% SaaS revenues were up 20% and SaaS application sites grew 26%.
We secured a number of point-of-sale wins including Boston Market's 460 locations.
Our venue management solutions also continued to gain traction.
We announced the 4-year agreement with the NFL's Atlanta Falcons to utilize our Netkey Endless Aisle solution POS Counterpoint software and mobile applications and our Wayfinding interactive self-service solution.
Additional customer wins during the quarter include the historic Adelaide Oval and 1300SMILES Stadium both in Australia for deployment of our venue management solution.
Importantly we are well positioned and at the forefront of mobile payment adoption and can offer our customers the ability to easily integrate multiple transaction channels into 1 integrated selling platform.
Our solutions offer realtime insights into back-office operations and transaction data which enable restaurant operators to better manage their business and capture operational efficiencies.
In our Emerging Industries business Q3 revenues remained flat a result of the impact of a partial reduction in a large customer contract last year.
In Travel we secured multiple customer wins including expanding our relationship with China Eastern Airlines through deployment of additional self-service check-in kiosks and multi-vendor on-site support services.
Just this week we announced an agreement with GuestLogix that will extend omni-channel retailing to the travel industry by providing a comprehensive and secure means for airlines to sell additional products and services outside of the aircraft via mobile or self-service kiosks.
The exchange of technology allows NCR to better address the ancillary revenue opportunities for our customers and improve the travelers' experience.
In Technology and Telecom several new wins of significance occurred in the third quarter.
These include a multi-million dollar services deal with 1 of the world's largest managed services providers and a new contract with Unified where NCR is now the authorized on-site service partner for Unified voice products in the United States.
Additionally a deal was closed with 1 of the largest telcos in India for automated bill pay and queue management kiosks for 30 stores this year with the intent to expand into 400 stores in 2014 and 2015.
Finally in our services business we have made solid progress building our position as a leading global provider of software and SaaS applications.
Our services business generated 12% overall revenue growth in Q3 with professional services revenues increasing 51%.
During the quarter we were recognized as a top technology innovator by information with due largely to our unique Predictive Services offering.
This marked the third consecutive year NCR was ranked and at #24 was our highest ranking to-date.
In addition to industry recognition we also grew our services business in China with a 5-year agreement with China Resources Bank to service their fleet of over 200 ATMs.
In summary during the third quarter we executed against our strategic goals and delivered strong financial results.
The reinvention of NCR as a hardware-enabled software-driven company continues to show momentum evidenced by growth in our software and SaaS offerings and the expansion of our addressable market through diversification into new product areas and channels.
We are excited about our opportunities to continue serving as a trusted advisor to our customers providing them with the innovative solutions that allow them to offer exceptional experiences to their customers.
I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Okay.
Thanks Peter.
NCR's total reported revenue in the third quarter was $1.51 billion up 5% versus Q3 2012 and up 7% on a constant currency basis.
We reported GAAP income from continuing operations of $98 million or $0.58 per diluted share.
This compares to GAAP income from continuing operations of $88 million or $0.53 per diluted share in Q3 2012.
NCR's results from continuing operations include special items in both periods.
Excluding pension and special items non-GAAP diluted income per share was $0.76 per share in Q3 2013 versus $0.64 per share in Q3 2012.
To analyze NCR's operational performance without the effect of special items and pension expense please see the supplemental financial schedule included in our earnings press release and the supplementary non-GAAP materials in the slides that Bill referred to earlier that reconcile our GAAP to non-GAAP results.
Excluding the impact of special items and pension expense our Q3 2013 gross margin was 28.6% compared to 27.3% in the prior-year period.
This 130 basis point increase was primarily driven by a favorable mix of revenue including higher software revenues and a continued focus on cost improvement initiatives.
Operating expenses excluding pension expense and special items were approximately 16.3% of revenue in the third quarter of 2013 compared to 16.7% in the same period last year.
Operating expenses for the third quarter of 2013 benefited from a $7 million gain on the sale of an office property.
Non-GAAP income from operations or NPOI was $185 million in the third quarter compared to $153 million in the prior-year period an increase of 21%.
Third quarter 2013 segment operating margins were as follows: Financial Services increased to 12.1% versus 10.5% in the prior-year quarter due to higher software and consulting services revenue and reduced expenses.
Retail Solutions increased to 10.1% from 6.7% in the prior-year quarter mainly due to a favorable mix of revenue including more software and the inclusion of the Retalix business.
Hospitality decreased to 16.1% from 17.8% in the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to investment in sales and development resources.
And Emerging Industries decreased to 18.6% from 20.9% in the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to an unfavorable mix of revenues.
Other expense was $26 million in Q3 2013 which was mainly related to interest expense.
Income tax expense was $19 million in the third quarter of 2013 compared to expense of $33 million in Q3 2012.
Excluding the effect of pension and non-recurring items third quarter 2013 effective tax rate was 18% compared to 27% in Q3 2012.
During the quarter we recorded a one-time tax benefit of approximately $10 million related to the implementation of a tax planning strategy to access certain deferred tax assets.
NCR's full year 2013 effective tax rate is expected to be 23% significantly better than our previous guidance.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Cash on hand at September 30 2013 was $460 million consistent with the balance as of June 30 2013.
Total debt was $2.23 billion at the end of Q3 2013 compared to $2.16 billion at the end of June 2013.
Moving over to the cash flow statement.
NCR generated $27 million of cash from operating activities in Q3 2013 compared to $400 million of cash used in operating activities in the prior-year period.
Excluding the $500 million discretionary contribution to the U.S.
qualified plan during Q3 2012 free cash flow was a cash outflow of $66 million in Q3 2013 compared to a cash inflow of $16 million in the prior-year period.
The decrease in free cash flow was primarily driven by increases in capital expenditures and changes in working capital.
NCR defines free cash flow as cash flow from operations and discontinued operations less capital expenditures for property plant and equipment in addition to capitalized software.
We continue to expect free cash flow for full year 2013 to be in the range of $200 million to $250 million up from $146 million in 2012.
I'd like to conclude by discussing our guidance for 2013 and providing an update on Phase III of our pension strategy.
The revenue guidance by line of business has been updated from our previous guidance provided during the Q2 earnings call.
The guidance for our lines of business include services and is on a constant currency basis.
We are seeing roughly 2 points of FX headwind versus the prior year on a total company basis.
In Financial Services we now expect revenues to be roughly flat.
In Hospitality we expect revenues to increase towards the higher end of the 15% to 18%.
In Retail we now expect revenues to be up 24% to 26% higher than our previous guidance.
Retail revenues excluding Retalix are expected to grow 7% to 9%.
In Emerging Industries we expect revenues to be up 3% to 5%.
We're also reaffirming our previously issued overall GAAP and non-GAAP guidance.
In terms of total revenue we expect 9% to 11% growth on a constant currency basis.
Our 2013 NPOI estimate is $700 million to $720 million and our non-GAAP EPS guidance is $2.70 and $2.80.
For Q4 we expect NPOI to be in the range of $204 million to $224 million or growth of 13% to 24% year-over-year.
Additionally we expect the Q4 effective tax rate to be approximately 30% coming off a strong 18% in Q3.
And other expense net including interest expense to be approximately $25 million in the fourth quarter.
Turning now to an update on Phase III of our pension strategy.
We continue to make progress with our de-risking initiatives with the $100 million contribution to our U.S.
pension plan on October 1 and the expected completion of our lump sum offer to the remaining vested terminated employees in the fourth quarter.
We believe the various actions taken this year will reduce our global underfunded status by about 50% at the end of the year versus the end of last year assuming no significant changes in the markets or discount rates in the fourth quarter.
And with that I'll open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First of all seasonality.
The guidance calls for a pretty strong fourth quarter and this is quite typical for you.
But can you just remind us why that is possible particularly in the Retail segment where I mentioned that the end customers is a bit reluctant to be upgrading? Yes.
Paul we usually have as you know seasonally a strong fourth quarter.
There's always a number of factors to that notwithstanding the fact that it is the end of our fiscal year and it's always a big push on behalf of all of our sales teams to close strong.
There's also a big push on some point of our customers to finish the year with the investments they've made earlier on the year in terms of installations.
Installations of ATMs self-checkout point-of-sale software programs all of our customers are on budget.
They're annual as well and they wanted to get the projects done.
So we typically see a stronger fourth quarter as a result of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Obviously I applaud the reduction in OpEx as a percentage of revenue.
I appreciate that much of your R&amp;D is effectively acquired through acquisitions.
But nonetheless it's 3.5% of sales.
Now R&amp;D seems to be low Bill.
Can you just sort of reassure us that there's no compromise here on the rate of innovation of this company? And if so how has the company's moved such a modest total R&amp;D spend? Paul my CTO is staring at me here.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you for asking that question.
They're going to think I saved you but I can give you my perspective after Bill.
I'll let John answer next.
But R&amp;D spend Paul as a percent of overall revenue is up significantly year-on-year and has been growing sequentially now for the last several years.
So I feel good about the growth of our spend in total.
And we're being very laser-focused as to where we spend our R&amp;D Paul.
And we're doing a good job of recycling spend away from more commodity areas into more higher-margin areas so I think more software.
But I would say that the combination of the additional expenses that we bought in the Retalix and Radiant acquisition combined with good solid management on the NCR side is why we're able to manage that quite well.
By the way we're not compromising anything.
If anything we're investing.
John? Yes that's -- and that's fair Paul.
The real key issue is just a number of years ago it's really only 3 or so we made the decision to align all of the various different research and development divisions into 1 organization and consolidate and focus on platforming.
And a big part of the ability to refocus our efforts has been that we had tremendous amount of reduction across parts and using common capabilities across each of our platforms.
And that's allowed us to very nicely quarter-after-quarter continue to reshape our portfolio in this space.
And that plus the acquired capabilities and abilities to rationalize plus the software has allowed us to maintain what we feel is an appropriate level of expense to revenue there especially given the increased software content.
So while I'm always going to push for more research and development it's always going to be a balanced set of investments against our strategy and what we can execute in any given fiscal year.
Yes Paul -- and only the point I would make and I'm not protesting too much here but we're taking your question personally.
But I would say that you always have to be very careful that when you are investing the dollars you're investing them appropriately and you don't waste them.
So we're being very careful given that our ratio of expense to R&amp;D is up that we're not being wasteful along the way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My last question on Financial Services.
It feels like year-on-year comps get easier at some point in this fourth quarter.
It looks like the bookings are quite strong.
Do you feel confident that we'll be seeing year-on-year growth next year in that context plus the overlay of branch transformation? Yes the answer is yes to your latter question.
But to some context on that bookings or orders in Q3 was up 17% in Financial Services.
It was a good quarter for that business in terms of orders mainly driven by the Americas but not the U.S.
Still as I said on the Q2 call I'll say again today my key metric for that business in terms of growth is when will the U.S.
have year-over-year order growth.
I'm expecting that in Q4.
I'll report back to you in January on how we did but I'm expecting that in Q4.
That being said I was very pleased with overall order growth in Financial Services.
By the way the company order growth was up 17% as well in the quarter.
So we were able to claw back some of the backlog deficit we built for ourselves but we have to continue to grow orders in Q4 consistently and then in Q1.
But I have a lot more confidence Paul in growing revenue mix here in Financial than I did at the beginning of this year.
I think the other good thing Bill and sitting in the backlog is the gross margin dollars are up year-on-year.
So that's the gross margin sitting in backlog and that's primarily because of the mix of the business more PS professional services and more software sitting in that backlog.
We'll take the next question from Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So Bill it looks like based on your guidance in Financial Services the U.S.
ATM business still remains weak.
I mean as you're talking to your customers especially the regional banks can you share with you some of the discussions you're having with them ahead of the AEN Wi Windows 7 deadline? Well I think your characterization is right Meghna but the 1 caveat I would say is it's not unexpected to us that the U.S.
ATM business was going to be weak until about now.
It would be less expected based on my comment earlier to Paul around my expectation that Q4 order growth in North America will be up.
But it has been weak and it has been on the back of tough compares and on the back of the secular upgrade cycle we saw in the spring and summer of last year.
Comments from the customer base or dialogue with the customer base has been relatively positive from the point of view that in all cases our customers are going to have to do something around Win 7 and EMV.
It's more of a Windows 7 story less than EMV story.
EMV is out there in '15.
And candidly it will probably be moved again at some point.
Those things do move around.
Win 7 is a real issue and that's something we're beginning to see activity on.
And then separately for us that particular space is a space where branch transformation is getting a lot of attention.
So I think that that has good potential in '14 and '15 for more significant growth.
Do you have anything to add guys? [indiscernible] You said it well.
He said I did a good job.
Okay.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
With branch transformation a quick question.
So what is the revenue contribution year-to-date? And are you reiterating the $80 million to $100 million guidance for the year? Yes.
I think when you look at all-in hardware software services PS and all of that yes I think we'll have the guidance of $80 million to $100 million.
Right now orders at the end of Q3 was at $50-ish million.
And so I think we're going to have another strong Q4 in orders.
So I think the order rate will probably be around $90 million when it's all said and done in branch.
And as I said on the last call I'm still expecting next year to be $150 million to $200 million in that range.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question on Retail.
Bill Wal-Mart recently at the Analyst Day they said that they're adding self-checkout systems to more than 600 stores by the end of the year.
So is it safe to assume that NCR is going to be the vendor here [ph] since Wal-Mart is 1 of your biggest customers? And if yes how should we think about the revenue opportunity from this announcement? And was this -- is this factored into your current guidance? Meghna I'd love to comment on that but I can't so I won't.
But I will say this this is not Wal-Mart related.
This will be -- we did win 2 other major contracts in self-checkout recently that are quite significant in size and I would say it could rival the initial Wal-Mart order we received a year ago.
So these are big deals.
And so I do think that self-checkout per se has a bright future in the company at least for 2014 and '15 given my expectation around these 2 new wins and what might occur in the market generally and globally.
We'll move next to Kathy Huberty with Morgan Stanley -- or Katy Huberty.
Research Division</strong> Just first what was the thought process behind not flowing through the NPOI and EPS data in the third quarter? Is that just the tax rate volatility or were there some weak areas? I think you mentioned in the Retail business revenue conversion wasn't what you thought you want to see how that plays out.
Well I'll answer it and then Bob will give you his perspective.
But in the quarter I'd say Katy the quarter kind of worked out the way we thought when you adjust for some of the other items.
We knew coming into the quarter we had the potential for these tax benefits when we gave you our guidance in Q2.
So they were not a surprise to us.
So we included that in our perspective in the quarter.
We also knew we had the small real estate gain coming so that was included in our guidance as well.
But to your point I think if there was 1 or 2 areas where I would say we could have executed better 1 would be Retail.
I'd say about $20 million in revenue we should have captured but did not in the quarter.
So that has a flow-through -- I think gross margin is around $6 million.
And to a lesser extent I'd say in Financial but financial had a great quarter overall from the profit perspective.
Andy is doing a really nice job of reshaping and transforming that business in the bottom line of that business and being very disciplined about the business we take versus we don't take.
So I was pleased with that but I would like to see a little bit more just a tad more sell and bill out of that business in Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the free cash flow side of things still tracking below earnings.
You've talked about that in past quarters.
Is there anything that you pinpointed Bill in terms of processes or particular business segments where you think you can go and really have a near-term impact on the cash cycle in the next few quarters? Well I'm going to say this I mean cash flow is behind operating the business day-in and day-out well in terms of my #1 priority being a good operator.
Cash flow is #2 for us and we're getting very focused on cash flow generation.
We have to.
We just have a great machine here that should generate higher more consistent more linear cash flow.
My disappointment on that in Q3 was mainly on the working capital side mainly accounts receivable but we'll get that sorted in Q4.
Bob has a plan.
We have a plan to get that nailed down.
And we're also working together on jointly getting a better linear overall performance of cash flow in '14.
Yes and I would agree.
I was equally disappointed with the free cash flow.
Q4 is always a big quarter for us in terms of generating free cash flow.
We always collect more of our receivables as a percentage of what's due in that last quarter.
So I'm confident we'll hit the range that we gave.
So overall it's just a matter of being very focused on collecting on our cash starting here in October and November and driving that forward through the month of December.
So again a little bit more back-end loaded that I like but still on track to achieve our goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally I know you have to wait until December 31 to finalize the pension accounting.
But given where interest rates are now I imagine the underfunded position comes down quite a bit does that mean that you have less cash outflow in the next couple of years and we could actually -- you'll see nice free cash flow growth just on the back of that going forward? I think that's a true statement.
We gave the comment that the underfunded position would improve by about 50% at year end.
And that's really a combination of a couple of big initiatives we undertook.
One was the senior executive plan one was the prefunding done here recently in October but also the trending up of the discount rate has helped.
And no -- even though we're fairly well notched from an immunization perspective that rising discount rate has helped us this year.
So I think all of that helps in terms of reducing the underfunded.
And the big initiatives as part of Phase III will improve the free cash flow in the outer years.
So it's all helpful.
We'll take the next question from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to kind of drill down on this point you just made a second ago.
You talked about gross margin dollars embedded in your backlog are much higher from a margin perspective.
I guess the question is order growth was up 17% for the company how do we think about that if we're parsing it software and services as a component of that versus just like a unit component? Yes...
LLC Research Division</strong> Because I think that's -- I mean that's clearly key to the story.
Yes -- no it's a great question Dan because we look at it every day.
So we look at software and services as a percent of our overall backlog.
And the growth of software and services as a percent of our overall backlog has been going up quite significantly.
So when Bob mentioned Financial Services -- it's not just them by the way but that division -- you would see that their overall gross margin dollars in the backlog even though the backlog is down year-on-year the gross margin dollars are up in that business by about $29 million year-on-year.
Software as a percent of the backlog is growing 40% year-on-year.
So...
LLC Research Division</strong> And that's just for Financial Services right? Yes.
Good growth in that space.
So think about us measuring -- when we look at our funnel and our backlog we have a forward-looking metric which is our funnel.
We have a backward-looking metric which is our backlog.
And we look at software as a percent of those every day.
So making sure that the mix of our funnel and the mix of our backlog is improving with our strategic goals and metrics that we measure ourselves to.
As we get that margin yield we're looking for both long-term in the funnel and short-term in the backlog.
You with me on that? LLC Research Division</strong> I am.
So that leads me to my next question which is of the incremental dollars that you're bringing through with orders how much of that is software and services as a mix? It's a lot better...
LLC Research Division</strong> Is it more than 50% or 60% or 70% or...
Of the incremental? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
So the forward-looking right what you're bringing -- what you're going to -- what we're going to see into the '14 numbers and beyond because we -- you gave us these aggregate numbers and they are very helpful $725 million the $775 million and the like but I'm thinking of these incremental dollars that are being brought in through all these new orders.
I'm just trying to think of it in aggregate.
What percentage of your new business that's brought in is really coming from software and services? It's a great question but I don't have the math in front of me now but we look at that.
Dan we'll come back to you on that.
If we can get it during the call I'll give it to you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe Analyst Day? Yes.
We're looking forward to Analyst Day.
Just a point I'd like to make on that is that we're pretty jazzed up about Analyst Day and meeting with all of you guys and giving you our outlook on the business.
By then we'll give you some perspective on the answer to that question as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just ask 1 more real quick.
The 2 major deals that you talked about in self-checkout which obviously sound meaningful are each 1 rivaling the original Wal-Mart or in aggregate they would rival that? And if so should we be expecting those in kind of a '14 -- early part of '14? One of them will rival the size of the initial Wal-Mart order by itself.
And the other will be smaller but has more -- has equal upside long term depending upon the uptake.
So combined I'd say they are both larger than the initial Wal-Mart order yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the timing? Now through '14.
We'll start shipping in Q4.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 1 last question was you did mention that you were disappointed on the conversion on Retail.
$20 million is really kind of the jump you thought you should have had.
It wasn't clear as to why.
Like what was the key driver to your disappointment on that? Obviously you wanted more revenue but what didn't allow you to get it I guess? What happened there in the quarter? Well I'll -- Dan I'll use the word missed execution because it comes down to that.
But what's happening a bit in the company is as we become more of a software-driven company we're also transforming internally.
So oftentimes when software deals come in at the end of the quarter and you would know us to have a fairly strong governance and financial focus on our books and records if the "I"s are not dotted and the "T"s aren't crossed we're not booking it.
So our teams out there in the field are learning how to sell software learning how to get them done correctly in a timely way.
And you also know software businesses tend to be back-end loaded from a linearity point of view.
And so when we have those issues we had some software deals that were reasonably good margin deals to split quarter-to-quarter and it was sloppiness on our part.
We'll take the next question from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just very quickly the free cash flow you're talking about of the $200 million to $250 million where does that go and what do you intend to do with that? Is it acquisitions? Is it -- are we going to see a resumption of buybacks de-levering? What are we doing? I'll answer it and then Bob will jump in.
Some of that will go to paying down the debt.
Some of that might go up as an acquisition we find that is interesting and meaningful to that.
And some of it may go to working capital.
It depends upon where the cash comes from and where we -- what we end up doing.
So it's all of the above.
Is that fair Bob? Yes I agree.
We'll move next to Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
You might have answered this question so I apologize.
I just want to make sure that I understood it.
As far as the ATM business is concerned in the U.S.
how much was it down compared to year ago? Mid-teens.
Mid-teens? I think we -- yes mid-teens down year-over-year.
And revenue I think is 16% down year-on-year.
So another great quarter but a tough compare.
And I think that was the key driver of -- as I said earlier the rest of the world for our ATM business is actually doing quite well.
We had a great quarter in a number of key countries that we're doing business in: India China Turkey Middle East and Africa had a fantastic quarter.
So it's really a U.S.
story for now.
And as I said earlier the key metric we all want to track all of us is real growth in North America.
Research Division</strong> So in the U.S.
was it just retail banks where you saw the weakness or was this pretty broad-based and it was also in the national banks as well? Across the board but regional is a little bit more weaker then the nationals.
Research Division</strong> And then Bill the 1 area you seem to have be having good success on the Financial Service side in software.
It seems like 1 of the reasons you said your margins were up year-over-year.
Are you able to quantify the percentage of software now as part of the ATM business? Obviously you have hardware services.
So I was just wondering if you're able to parse out how much is software now compared to year ago? Yes I think we can.
We'll give it to you at Analyst Day as well.
But I will say this software and SaaS revenues were up 10% and 8% respectively in Financial Services year-on-year.
That's a big number for us in that business because that's -- the base of software in Financial Services is not small.
Yes.
And overall for the company I think we gave the number out for software as a percentage of total revenue.
Last quarter it was about 12%.
This quarter it's 13%.
And I think Financial probably falls in line very similar to the total company.
Research Division</strong> And then just 1 last question Bill.
In the emerging markets especially in India are you seeing any greater price competition? It seems like that market is really growing.
And I just don't know as new entrants might be trying to enter if you're seeing any price competition.
Hey Kartik.
It's Peter Leav.
We're seeing the transition as it relates to business model but it's no more or less competitive than it had been and we're seeing very significant growth as we not only aspire to continue to grow and take share but we have aligned with the model that's come to fruition in that market.
So the short answer is no but the model is something that's caused major transition and provided us a great opportunity to continue to grow and we certainly did so in Q3 in India.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move next to Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First in the ATM business you talked about most regions of the world with the exception of Europe.
Can you talk about Bill orders the overall performance there in Q3 and what you're expecting over the next several quarters? Yes.
Order growth Matt in EMEA was up 21% in the quarter.
So we had solid order growth quarter overall.
But in Financial Services it was up 15%.
So the total company was up a bit more than Financial Services.
Revenue for EMEA was down slightly a couple of points I think.
But if you FX adjust for that probably not down -- I mean up slightly.
And so good solid quarter for Financial in orders.
As expected given the backlog going into the quarter for revenue.
I would say that the thing that I was encouraged by for EMEA was growth in orders in Italy Iberia France the U.K.
and the Middle East and Africa in particular.
They had all good quarters.
Research Division</strong> And then with respect to Hospitality can you talk about maybe when you bought Radiant what is the percent of revenue the company was spending on what you're calling sales development and what that percentage looks like today and when you start to get leverage on that? It's a lot higher today Matt I can tell you that a lot higher.
Our expenses in sales alone are up 30% year-on-year in Hospitality.
I expect to get leverage from that in '14 and '15.
It takes about 18 months to 24 months for salespeople to get fully productive in terms of productivity per head when you -- after you hire them.
A good percentage of those hires are on SaaS as well.
So SaaS you don't see SaaS hit you like you do enterprise license revenue or hardware revenue it takes more time.
But that's money well spent because the margins obviously move up in the right direction as they gain traction.
So 1/2 of the investment if not slightly more of that has been in SaaS reps; and the other 1/2 in international account managers.
I think the other place Bill is we're probably giving them about 30% to 33% more in software cap.
So again these are the development dollars being used to create the next generation of applications that they can add to their stack.
So again it's forward investing where the benefits will come through next year and the -- and in future years.
Did you hear that Paul Coster? Research Division</strong> And then just 1 last 1 real quick.
Bill I think you mentioned and I just want to make sure I'm clear on this the $10 million benefit you had in taxes that seemed discrete in nature.
That was or was not in your guidance for 27% effective tax rate in Q3? And then the same with the $9 million in gains.
Yes.
The guidance we gave for Q2 was -- did not include that.
What we did is in the Q we foreshadowed that we will work in this issue.
And so giving some indication but really needing to kind of work through and complete that tax planning strategy.
So again that's how we did the disclosure there.
It was included in the Q3 guidance the $175 million to $180 million.
I think -- are we talking about Q3 or the year? Research Division</strong> Yes -- no I'm talking about Q3 and I'm talking about 2 sort of separate things I apologize so...
I'm sorry.
I said Q -- I think in Q3 we gave a tax rate of 27% Matt.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
Okay.
That included in the 23 -- 27% was not -- this one-time item was not in there.
What we did with this item was in the Q we suggested that we were working through a tax planning strategy.
So that's why when we came up with 18% here for Q3 that's basically the difference between the 27% guidance and that's also why I need to kind of do a reset and have a 30% in Q4.
Exactly.
Overall for the year it gives me a 23% rate which is pretty good when you look at the last 3 or 4 years.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> And then the $7 million you mentioned that helped the op expense Bob was that in or not in the guidance? I missed that earlier.
We gave guidance of $175 million to $180 million Matt.
And we've landed on $185 million.
So the guidance that we gave did not have this in it.
Overall though we were able to achieve within our range.
I put that item again Bill was talking about legacy items legacy issues this was an office building that we held and were able to sell in the quarter.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Yes.
Just some closing comments around the Analyst Day.
It is coming up on November 11 and we're looking forward to seeing everyone there.
Again we're enthusiastic about meeting all of you and giving you our next 3-year update on revenue and NPOI and EPS guidance.
We'll see you there.
That concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NCR Corporation Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
And now your host for today's call the Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Tracy Krumme.
Ms.
Krumme please go ahead now.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me on the call today are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Bruno Executive Vice President; and Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer.
Our presentation and discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and in our periodic filings with the SEC including our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will be referring to a presentation posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in our earnings release and are also available on the Investors section of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of February 6 2014 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this call whether as a result of new information or future events.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Tracy and good afternoon to all of you.
I'm on Page 4 of the slide deck top left corner Revenue.
Revenue for Q4 came in as expected up 2% year-on-year up 4% on a constant currency basis.
For us I'll talk more about revenue when I get to the full year.
On operational gross margin it's an interesting story for us.
We did a great quarter in terms of gross margin enhancement in the business.
But about half of that came from organically developed software in Financial Services and Retail.
So non-Retalix -- non-Radiant software mainly drove that -- about half of that gross margin advantage for us in Q4.
But it was a very solid quarter in terms of gross margin expansion for us across the board and operating margins across the board in just about every line of business.
NPOI hit a record for us in the quarter a record both in terms of dollars and margin up 22% year-on-year and we hit an all-time high NPOI margin of 13.2% in the quarter.
I think it's the first time we hit 13% since the spinoff from AT&amp;T back in 1997.
And we had a great quarter in terms of free cash flow up 160% year-on-year.
Bob will give you more color on cash flow during his prepared remarks.
I would like to before I leave the slide say a couple of things about execution.
This is now the 16th quarter in a row that our team has had year-over-year revenue and NPOI growth.
And in the spirit of doing what you say you're going to do this is the 17th quarter in a row that we've either beat or met EPS consensus estimate.
So I'm really proud of the team in terms of their ability to forecast the business and execute to what we say we're going to do.
I'm now turning to Slide 5.
On the year revenue came in at $6.12 billion up 7% as reported 9% on a constant currency basis.
We did meet our guidance the low end of guidance on the year at 9%.
And if I had to circle back to 2013 I think the main difference between 9% and 10% or even 9% and 11% was North America ATMs.
It really was the difference maker for us in 2013.
Now on that note and it's a very positive note John will talk more about this we had a very good quarter in terms of orders for Financial Services and in particular from North America.
Operational gross margin on the year was up as you can see 170 basis points.
Again I attribute almost all of that to the growth we're seeing in software SaaS and professional services.
And NPOI on the year came in up 22% as well coincident with Q4.
And again we also did record annual NPOI margin of 11.7% on the year.
And free cash flow came in as per our guidance as well and Bob will talk more about this but we landed at $207 million on the year in free cash flow thanks to a very solid Q4 execution.
I'm now on Slide 6.
We talked a lot about the impact that software has had on revenue growth and margin expansion.
But this picture gives you a really good view both of Q4 and the fiscal year.
And now what we're doing is we're giving a view towards PS as well professional services which when you think about it is really a business here in NCR completely aligned with our software business.
So it gives you a sense for how big of a pure-play software company we have become and the growth we're seeing in the business over time.
But we had a great Q4 both in PS revenue up 49%; and SaaS was up almost 40% year-on-year in Q4.
And on the year we had a terrific year across the board.
PS was up 50 -- sorry 48%; SaaS up 54%.
And we had a terrific year in terms of software growth.
And as you can see Bob will get into this in a moment 2014 is quite promising on that front.
John? Thank you Bill.
We're on Slide 7 and on this slide we summarize a number of quantitative and qualitative highlights for our lines of business for not only Q4 2013 but also for the full year.
I'm not going to speak to each of these bullets but I wanted to call your attention to a few results that support our continued strategic execution.
Let me start with Financial Services.
We're very pleased with our operating margin performance as it demonstrates how we're managing this business as we transform managing operating expenses and investing in new growth areas such as software solutions and professional services.
These investments are driving improved balance and diversification of our revenue streams.
On previous calls we have been asked about our views on North America in particular.
And as we have stated in Q2 and Q3 calls we expected to see orders growth in Q4.
We're very pleased with the 26% orders growth we delivered led by solid results and branch transformation.
On the full year branch transformation delivered over $80 million in orders and that number does not include any post-sale customer support or other managed services.
We are also pleased with the traction and progress we're seeing across tiers and geographies with $25 million of those orders coming from outside the U.S.
Also on a full year basis we're encouraged with the software growth in our funnel backlog and revenue demonstrating our customers' interest in what we've been building as they drive their individual retail bank transformation initiatives.
And lastly we're pleased with the overall geographical balance of this business with 2/3 of revenues being outside North America demonstrating solid execution against our global strategy.
In Retail this line of business experienced strong operating income growth in Q4 of 48% given a higher mix of software and professional services with software and SaaS revenues up 119% and 228% respectively.
Excluding Retalix this story is still very good on the same breakout with software being up 25% and SaaS 80%.
On the full year 2013 was a record year in SCO and in POS.
SCO shipments were up 26% over a very good 2012 and POS increased 15% year-on-year demonstrating customer preference for our hardware platforms.
Also on the full year our software revenue growth was 125% with SaaS delivering 230% growth.
Excluding Retalix the software and SaaS revenue growth was an impressive 29% and 80% respectively.
We don't spend a lot of time highlighting some of our other investment areas like Silver which is our cloud-based POS for small business platform or our specialized solutions such as Cornell Mayo in specialty retail.
But in Q4 both achieved milestones with Silver signing over 4 800 customers and delivering its third major release; and Cornell Mayo being named the leader in the 2013 RIS Software Leaderboard.
In Hospitality in Q4 this business delivered revenue growth of 17% with growth in all theaters.
The small and medium business segment of Hospitality grew revenue 33% in Q4 and that's a good indicator of the differentiation our solution delivers to a very important part of the market.
Software and SaaS revenue continues to be an important part of Hospitality solution portfolio as well; and in Q4 the team delivered 10% and 19% revenue growth respectively.
Equally important was application site growth of 24%.
And as I mentioned earlier we're pleased with traction we're beginning to realize through our geographic expansion efforts and are very excited to add global and local companies in Q4 such as Johnny Rockets and Juan Valdez Café to our customer base.
Overall on a full year basis this line of business put up another solid performance across the board but particularly noteworthy was performance in areas of continued strength such as 28% SaaS revenue growth and North America SMB revenue growth of 34% both indicative of a strong demand and preference for our solutions over the competition.
And Emerging Industries.
Lastly I wanted to mention a few noteworthy accomplishments in Emerging Industries and we remain committed to investing in areas of market growth where we feel our solutions can deliver value aligns with our strategy and core capabilities.
We are pleased that this area of our business is turning the corner and delivered 31% revenue growth in Q4.
Our travel line of business delivered revenue growth in the quarter of 62% and our telecom and technology revenues were up 24% which is the first increase in 5 quarters.
On a full year basis it was good to see file value and backlog growth in our telecom and technology business with new customer wins globally demonstrating the value this business brings to our customers.
And lastly our travel business delivered $43.7 million bar codes in 2013 for applications such as mobile check-in at airports which represents 67% growth year-on-year.
And they continue to build momentum across their entire solutions portfolio signing up new partners and delivering customer wins in China the Middle East and in every market they serve.
Now I'd like to turn to Slide 8.
As I didn't provide an update on the acquisitions we announced in Q4 I will provide a progress report of our integration efforts.
So first I'd like to start with the acquisitions we announced last quarter.
We included here a simple picture that we used at the time announcing the Digital Insight and Alaric acquisitions that we felt was worth repeating.
It demonstrates that both acquired companies not only have standalone differentiation in the market based on the technology they developed but also how in combination with NCR we now as one company deliver one of the most comprehensive suites of market-leading solutions across Financial Services and in particular in retail banking.
NCR continues to lead the market with enterprise software and branch transformation leveraging our technology and [indiscernible] share leadership in ATM hardware and software.
But you'll see here how a customer in the market Digital Insight serves as one example can now look to NCR to help them with their business goals which would be increasing their revenue lowering their operating cost and delivering technologies their customers demand across all of their channels.
Add to that an innovative payments and processing software platform through Alaric that was designed from the ground up to deal with the changing consumer omni-channel profile and you could see how NCR now has a very comprehensive portfolio of solutions to ensure our customers can better manage transactions across ATMs mobile and online channels with the highest levels of availability and security.
Overall our strategic rationale to deliver fully integrated omni-channel portfolio to retail banks and to do so through multiple delivery models bundled hardware and software software alone or SaaS all designed to appeal to the different tiers and segments of the market.
The business rationale is simple and by doing so will better position NCR for long-term growth greater recurring revenue margin expansion and earnings appreciation.
As you can see here we're forecasting Digital Insight's 2014 revenue to be in the range of $350 million to $360 million with operating income in the range of $85 million to $90 million.
And that includes approximately $10 million of duplicative costs to support our integration plans and data center migration activities.
Now I'd like to ask you to turn to Slide 9.
In closing out this section [indiscernible] before turning the call back over to Bill I wanted to provide you with a brief acquisition update on Retalix and Digital Insight.
I won't highlight Alaric as it was relatively small and we moved to integrate it into our core Financial Services business very quickly.
However I'm pleased to report that it's gone very well.
On Retalix we're also very pleased with our progress.
Let's start with the numbers.
From business plan perspective we exceed our expectations.
Our Q4 2013 revenue was $86 million and operating income was $14 million.
On a full year 2013 revenue was $298 million and operating income came in at $53 million.
Within that we also achieved fiscal year 2013 full year pretax cost synergies of $12 million.
In addition to the numbers we've really experienced the strong customer and market acceptance and have a growing sales funnel.
Together NCR plus Retalix we've been able to bid on and win large customer initiatives and the combined retail sales force has been able to better position not only Retalix solutions; but given their expertise in this area they're doing a very good job positioning NCR's entire portfolio of software services and hardware.
And that was evident in the Retail line of business results I discussed other.
In fact we're finding it increasingly difficult to separate the revenue synergies going forward as the combination of our assets has been very well received by our customers and that is good news and an indication of a successful integration.
On Digital Insight it's early days but you can expect us to implement the best practices from other acquisitions and we've assembled a cross-functional team that brings experience and a proven track record to this area.
Business continuity employee engagement and customer success are our top priorities.
And as strategic priorities are set we will incorporate the talented people and innovation from DI into NCR's Financial Services line of business.
And for those of you that are familiar with our organization structure and leadership team you'll recall Andy Heyman the leader of our Financial Service business today previously led our Hospitality business and came to us from Radiant.
He was also the executive responsible for the Radiant integration.
Andy is responsible for the integration of Digital Insight and well-positioned to ensure success.
And to date we received positive feedback from existing Digital Insight customers on the power of NCR's omni-channel banking solution; and early wins in this space include OceanFirst Bank and LegacyTexas Bank.
Now let me turn the call back over to Bill for some final comments on 2014 and our overall quarter reinvention.
Thank you John.
Bob will give you some perspective on the numbers in a moment in terms of guidance for 2014.
But let me just tell you I'm genuinely excited about 2014 as the CEO of the company coming into this year.
We have been working on the reinvention of this company for a long time.
And coming into '14 we just have a tremendous set of operating assets in the businesses so well diversified I couldn't be more pleased with the company's position globally in terms of geographies; product segments in terms of hardware software SaaS and services; as well as channels to market on a global basis.
So I feel very good about our position by vertical market in all of those dimensions.
All of our lines of business this year are poised for growth to grow margins and again to also improve their own balance across all of those spectrums.
But we will again move the needle on software and SaaS and services growth in '14.
We'll see another solid year more than double-digit growth in those categories.
We'll also continue our strong track record this year of what has been I think a stellar job by this management team in terms of acquisition integration.
My concerns are less around integrating acquired companies.
It's more now integrating NCR employees into the new NCR.
Revenue growth gross margin expansion and improving the customer experience remain top strategic performance goals of ours in the year.
You'll find that our guidance in the year is consistent we think with a very high-performing technology company.
We will continue to invest in becoming a better company in delivering a wonderful delightful experience to our customers.
We'll continue to maintain focus on what matters underneath the covers: continuous improvement productivity efficiency quality.
We've always been proud of rolling up our sleeves and continuing to churn out good cost and continue to reinvest some of that good cost back into our business.
We'll make more investments in innovation people and advance what is a pretty cool place to work these days.
I'm proud to tell you as well that while we'll also de-lever this year and next year quite significantly pension is in the rearview mirror.
From my point of view mission accomplished.
We'll end this year with a global underfunded position of less than $100 million.
We will have significantly reduced our pension liability.
We will have a tremendous impact on cash flow going forward and obviously a much lower pension expense given I've completed our move also to mark-to-market accounting this past year.
And I look at and Bob looks at pension Phase 3 at closing the chapter to this book by the end of this year.
This new company that we built is poised to lead a category that has emerged over the last few years in the consumer transaction technologies area.
Just to be clear on this you should know this we conduct nearly 500 million transactions every day around the world on our kit ATMs point of sale be it mobile or stationary in all systems around the world and we do it securely and we do it well.
We're also now a global leader in the new omni-commerce omni-channel category.
Our customers look to us for consulting and guidance and solutions to affect their own strategies in this area.
We are one of the largest SaaS companies in the world and we also have a great global and multi-industry set of experiences that our customers look for.
And look this reinvention that we're all working on here at NCR is also gaining a lot of global recognition whether it's Barron's or Boston Consulting Group or other soon-to-be-announced institutions that are interested in why and how and otherwise how we've accomplish these goals we have.
I am so proud of the position we're in and I expect to have a terrific 2014.
Bob? Okay.
Very good.
I am going to be sharing quite a few financial charts.
I hope everyone has the PowerPoints in front of them.
What I'm trying to do is make the NCR story the transformation much simpler.
So in the past where you might have gone to 2 or 3 different sources whether it was the earnings release or the script or the PowerPoints I tried to assemble the information here all in one place.
So I'm on Page 12.
12 is the operational P&amp;L for NCR.
First row is revenue.
I'm going to talk a little bit more about revenue when I get into the line of business revenue information.
I will repeat what Bill said.
It was a record gross margin rate driven by more software so up 260 basis points in Q4 and up 170 basis points for the full year.
Expenses under control.
On a percent of revenue basis I'm very proud of expense management at NCR.
NPOI in Q4 up 22% and $717 million of NPOI for the full year up 22% and again a record operating margin at 11.7%.
And then from an EPS perspective growing nicely at 15% in Q4 and 13% for the full year.
I've included in the footnote at the bottom the effective tax rate and you can see we landed at 22% for the full year 2013.
My tax team did a really nice job in the year.
A couple of numbers I wanted to call your attention to at this time last year we gave NPOI guidance of $695 million to $710 million.
During the year we upped it to $700 million to $720 million and we finished at the upper end of that range at $717 million again very proud of that result.
If you look at EPS at this time last year we gave you $2.65 to $2.75.
We upped it during the year to $2.70 to $2.80 and we landed above the $2.80 at $2.81; so again to Bill's point earlier achieving what we said we would do.
I'm going to move to the next chart.
It's Page 13.
This is what I think of as the GAAP equivalent to the previous chart.
You can see the GAAP equivalent is at $2.67.
They're very close actually to the $2.81 from the previous page.
When you look at the GAAP results I would say that the biggest driver on the year-on-year performance tends to be the mark-to-market pension.
And so I footnoted at the bottom of the page that the reason for the decline in EPS year-on-year is primarily due to the fact that the pension benefit in Q4 2012 was much higher than the pension benefit that we got in Q4 2013.
That was the major swing item from a GAAP results perspective.
That being said I'll move to Chart 14.
You can think of Pages 14 and 15 as being equivalent to our Schedule B that we include in our earnings release.
You can see on Page 14 I've included the revenue growth rate on an as-reported basis and then in the outer column on a FX-neutral or constant-currency basis.
As Bill mentioned revenue came in as expected in Q4.
From my point of view no real surprises.
If I start with the full year results the guidance for Financial was roughly flat for the year and that's what we achieved.
When you look at Retail we ended the year at 25% revenue growth.
Our first prediction for revenue was 22% to 25%.
We upped that during the year to 24% to 26% and ended in the middle of the range.
When you exclude Retalix from the Retail growth we had given a range of 7% to 9% and ended up at 7% FX neutral.
Hospitality to me was a very pleasant surprise.
We had given what we thought was a very strong guidance at 15% to 18% and we ended the year at 21% for Hospitality.
And then Emerging also came in within our guidance of 3% to 5% landing at 3%.
So overall as Bill mentioned guidance for the year of 9% to 11% and finishing at 9%.
Now again primarily because of the challenges we've had in North America Financial for the year North America Financial was down 15%.
And that was one of the reasons why we were not able to -- the main driver behind why we're not able to get closer to the middle of the range.
I'll say this within Financial the rest of the world on an FX-neutral basis was up mid-single digits.
When I look at Q4 again no surprise with Financial Services with the 5% down on an FX-neutral basis.
I will point to the North America Financial orders being up 26% in Q4 which means backlog is up low-single digits going into the first quarter of 2014 so some good momentum for Financial Services going into the 2014 year.
Retail Solutions posted good growth in Q4 at 12%.
I also look at the math that says "How did that business do x Retalix?" John had shown a chart that said "Retalix had driven $86 million." When I back that out Retail was down 8% in Q4 and down roughly 5% on an FX-neutral basis.
Now they had a difficult compare with Wal-Mart revenue from the prior year.
I am pleased to say though when I take out the big Wal-Mart order in Q4 of the previous year Retail orders were up close to 6% in Q4 so again some good momentum for the Retail business going into '14.
Hospitality we talked about an emerging significant growth.
I'm moving to the next Chart 15 the operating margin expansion chart.
You can see even with Financial Services being down 1% for the full year they still drove significant operating margin expansion both in Q4 and in the full year.
So again most of that attributed to the software mix in their business and good expense management.
Retail Solutions from my perspective is a transformed business.
They ended the year at a double-digit operating margin 10% and drove a 12% operating margin in Q4.
Hospitality keeping their -- our operating margin roughly flat even with the growth that they're having it's a very good sign and we continue to invest into that -- in that business whether it's internationally or whether it's through additional software applications.
On Emerging Industries I'm pleased to see and to say they're starting to turn the corner with $4 million more NPOI in the fourth quarter.
And then again if you look at the 11.7% operating margin that we ended the year with think of the fact that in 2009 we were at 7% so a significant improvement.
And in 2014 we will likely end the year at 13% so excellent operating margin expansion.
Okay.
I'm moving to one of my favorite topics free cash flow.
It's on Page 16.
Again very proud to say that we achieved our guidance for the full year came in at $207 million on guidance of $200 million to $250 million.
We had a record free cash flow quarter.
We drove $317 million of free cash flow in Q4.
I've shown you the breakout by type of flow on the right-hand side of the chart.
On this particular page I'm also giving guidance for 2014.
And so you can see it starts with our NPOI guidance of $900 million to $920 million adds back depreciation and amortization estimates cash taxes and it's in line with what I talked about at Analyst Day a 13% cash tax rate.
Capital expenditures going up primarily because of the Digital acquisition.
I'd say we're doing a good job of working through the different opportunities that we have continuing to invest in Emerging Industries in new software opportunities for the businesses as well as process improvement projects.
The pension contribution is coming down nicely.
Working capital think again of that is around 15% of the revenue change so that's the negative $65 million.
Interest paid on this chart and then you can see the rest in Other which is defined below.
That will mean our free cash flow guidance for the year of $300 million to $350 million 33% to 38% free cash flow conversion again on the way to driving 50% free cash flow conversion in the next couple of years.
I do expect that free cash flow will exhibit similar seasonality to what we've seen in the past.
We build working capital to drive higher revenue in Q4.
So as much as I'd like to get this perfectly linear I'll always have a situation where more of the free cash flow comes in in the fourth quarter.
That doesn't mean there aren't things I can do to improve that linearity but I just wanted to give that type of description.
On the next Page 17 another free cash flow page.
I often get asked what can -- what is the core business? What's the operational free cash flow of NCR? And so here very similar to Analyst Day I've taken out pension disc ops and acquisition-related costs to just to give you an idea of what the core business drives and you can see the $440 million to $510 million is roughly 50% conversion of NPOI.
I'm moving to Chart 18 and 19.
18 I'll talk about debt; 19 I'll talk about pension.
The debt chart on Page 18 the first column is where we're at at December 31 2013.
And you can see that the debt is higher primarily because we borrowed in advance of the closing of the Digital Insight transaction.
So we borrowed.
You can see the $400 million and $700 million notes and then that shows up as restricted cash at the bottom section of that chart.
What I've also tried to do though is show pro forma after the acquisition of Digital Insight.
And you can see that the $400 million to $700 million is used in the purchase but we've also used some revolving credit and increased the term loan.
So that shows you on a pro forma basis.
I've also calculated the interest expense for the year and you can expect that to be around $185 million and I footnoted at the bottom that that includes $11 million of deferred financing fee.
Most importantly from my perspective though is the ability to de-lever.
On a pro forma basis we'll leave slightly above 4x from a debt-to-EBITDA multiple and then again the goal that we had said in December was for the debt-to-adjusted EBITDA to be under 3x over the next 12 to 24 months.
And I'm very confident we'll do that driven by both the free cash flow generation and the EBITDA expansion.
On Page 19 I've put together what's a fairly simple chart for pension.
My eyes go right to the third row which is the improvement in the underfunded status.
So from a $1.4 billion underfunded in 2011 to less than $100 million underfunded at the end of 2013.
I've also included in here that the pension assets in the first row we have 97% in fixed income in the U.S.
76% to 77% globally so very well immunized.
If you look at the pension contribution this is a number that's historically been over $100 million.
It's down to $79 million in 2013.
And then again if you look in the green shaded box down to $70 million in '14 and $50 million in '15 again significantly improving my free cash flow.
And then finally the pension expense or benefit.
This is a number that bounces around a little bit under mark-to-market.
You can see that for the year 2013 it's a $78 million benefit and that does include a mark-to-market Q4 adjustment of a favorable $104 million benefit.
In terms of '14 excluding any mark-to-market adjustments we're at a run rate of $10 million of pension expense.
So again I agree with Bill 100%.
We've got pension in the rearview mirror.
Pension is done from my perspective a little bit of tidying up to do here as part of Phase 3 but we can now focus on growing NCR.
On Page 20 I summarized the full year 2014 guidance.
Revenue up 12% to 14% non-pension operating income growing significantly from $717 million to $900 million to $920 million and then earnings per share growing to $3 to $3.10.
I've also footnoted at the bottom some of the pieces that go into the EPS calculation.
In '14 -- 2014 you can expect OIE to be $200 million a 26% tax rate and a share count of $172 million (sic) [172 million] and then put the comparable numbers for 2013.
We will face some headwinds from having a 22% tax rate and a share count of 169 million in the '13 numbers.
An interesting chart for me is 21.
21 gives our revenue guidance by segment by line of business.
And again when you look at the balance across all 4 business it really is quite impressive.
So overall 12% to 14%.
These growth rates are all in line with what we described at Analyst Day.
We've got Financial Services growing 15% to 17% including Digital Insight.
Excluding Digital Insight we have Financial growing 4% to 5%; Retail growing 8% to 10%; Hospitality 12% to 15%; Emerging 10% to 14%.
Again very balanced growth.
When I take -- adjust for Digital Insight out of the total number of 12% to 14% it means the core business is growing 6% to 8%.
And again that's in line with what we have said at Analyst Day.
If I was to share a little bit about kind of the linearity for the year Q1 to Q4 I will say that revenue will ramp during the year.
From a growth rate perspective Q1 will be a little bit slower although I do expect all of my businesses to grow in Q1 and I'm very proud of that.
And turning now to my last financial chart.
My last financial chart is on Page 22.
It gives the Q1 2014 guidance.
You can see that the non-pension operating income at $155 million to $165 million again a number that we're very proud of here an excellent result expected result for Q1.
The way I think about the guidance for Q1 I've got roughly $18 million of profitability from Digital Insight in the Q1 number and that's on the way to $85 million to $90 million.
It's a little bit lower in Q1 because of the January 10 close date as well as I've got more of those duplicate costs in the number that John mentioned.
Those are projects that happened in the first 6 months of the year.
So if you take the midpoint of the $155 million to $165 million $160 million and back out Digital Insight you're at $142 million.
$142 million is about 10% NPI growth for the core.
But you will remember that last year we had a $16 million benefit included in the $129 million so when I associated with a change in severance accounting in the U.S.
And I just want to make sure I'm correct on that data point it was $13 million item in Q1 of 2013.
So if I was to adjust for that $13 million item I've actually got the core growing 22% in the quarter so very good growth.
The other headwind we faced in Q1 is we had tax extenders for 2012 passed in the first week of January 2013.
So we actually had a $15 million benefit -- $16 million benefit included in Q1 of 2013.
So that's the reason why the tax rate is higher in Q1 '14.
And then I've listed the other expense below.
So again good operational improvement in Q1 2014 growth by all of our lines of business and numbers that we're proud of reflecting the momentum that we have coming into the year.
My final chart is on Page 23.
Again what we're reflecting here is transformation in all of our lines of business; businesses that are set up to grow faster than the overall markets; businesses that drive software/SaaS and professional services that improve the gross margin.
We'll continue to drive free cash flow and focus on working capital.
We have the ability to de-lever the balance sheet very quickly.
And again we're not going to take our eye off of any cost-reduction initiatives.
2013 was the fourth year in a row where we took out greater than $100 million related to continuous improvement and we'll take out another $100 million in 2014.
So with that that ends our summary of both the financials and the guidance and I'll open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And for our first question we go to Paul Coster with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> You're guiding to 4% to 5% growth for Financial Services x Digital Insight in 2014.
Can you talk a little bit about how you get to that? And the 26% growth you saw in 4Q orders for the hardware side of the business how quickly does that translate into growth? And do you actually expect that hardware business to grow in '14? Yes.
Thank you Paul.
First of all at the aggregate level in Q4 Financial Services grew orders 11% and that's after growing orders in Q3 17%.
What I like about Q4 Paul is that in Q3 you remember we had a very big order from a Brazilian customer and in Q4 it was very balanced.
It's a clean quarter from that point of view in terms of it being about growth quarter.
So on an overall basis we grew Financial Services 11%.
North America was 26% growth.
Rest of World was 6% in terms of Rest of World growth in orders.
So a very solid order quarter.
They turned around a fairly negative backlog situation in Q3 and Q4 into a positive backlog situation coming into Q1.
Their backlog is up low-single digits and they're starting out Q1 well.
Now we have a long way to go in Q1 but I would be surprised if Financial Services didn't grow again in orders in Q1 have a solid book-to-bill and build their backlog up going into Q2.
So I feel good about what is a turnaround in that older hardware business primarily driven by branch transformation orders in Q4 and more momentum in that space coming into 2014.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Now I know that you're in the mode of under-promising and over-delivering here but the EPS guidance for 2014 does look a bit conservative given the shift towards software and services we've already seen and how that will accelerate with the acquisition of Digital Insight.
Could you just still comment on the EPS guidance for the year ahead? I think it's fair Paul.
I think you know our style for many years.
Both Bob and I prefer to risk-adjust the entire year early on and see how things go in Q1 before we change guidance on the -- I think we've changed guidance annually the last 4 years in a row if I'm not mistaken.
But we'll see where it goes Paul.
As Q1 goes so goes your year around here.
So I feel really good about a guidance of $3 to $3.10 right now but let's see where Q1 lands before we look at guidance for Q2 and beyond.
And for our next question we go to Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I can't remember what slide it was.
It was the last slide here.
But I'm wondering if you can help me bridge something.
If we have a jumping off point of $221 million in NPOI and I think you said your tax rate effective was 25% and you got interest expense another 38%.
I don't see how you get to the $0.83.
So there's either something in the interest and other line or your taxes are lower.
So can you just help me bridge that to start? In terms of going from the NPOI of $221 million to the $0.83 again you would back out the OIE and take that after tax and divide by the share count that would get you your $0.83.
LLC Research Division</strong> So if I look at operating -- the interest expense was $33 million and then you had this other $5 million right? So it's $38 million.
Is that number really $33 million? And then is the tax $46 million? I can -- instead of trying to play guesses I'm just trying to put real numbers here if that makes sense.
I'm like 2 other -- see I'm just trying to -- I'm trying to get rid of all the noise and just say $221 million less $38 million gives you $183 million pretax and $46 million plus the noninterest line gives me $0.80 so there's something that's too much in there and I think it's probably simple but I need your help to get to it.
Yes.
I mean roughly speaking and we include on our website a non-GAAP schedule.
But basically you would take the $221 million you'd back out interest and other income of $32 million and then you'd take that after tax and you're right the effective rate was 25%.
You'd divide it by the share count which is around 170 million and that will get you your answer.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's $32 million versus the $35 million -- or $32 million and then the $5 million.
So it's -- okay.
I can work on that.
That's very helpful.
The other thing is as you said Retail was down I guess about 5% in this quarter.
We're calling for 8% to 10% for the year.
Is that -- it's a pretty bogey and I'm just wondering is that a function of the self-checkout business that you guys had alluded winning last quarter? Like what gives you the confidence that you can have such a big swing? Yes.
I think that both John and I will tag team on this but Retail is coming into the year again with a backlog in the low-single digits as well similar to Financial Services.
So their starting point is reasonable.
And from what we can see in terms of orders right now in Q1 Q2 we feel good about the guidance.
And yes there's no doubt that self-checkout orders will play a role in that 8% to 10% growth this year.
Also don't forget we will continue to see good growth on the Retalix side year-on-year.
Yes that's right and that's a story of balance in the portfolio.
I mean this business has been hard at work in creating a platform story across point of sale and now self-checkout.
We've talked in previous quarters and we haven't spent as much time talking about the various what we call the variants of self-checkout the smaller footprint.
But now you've got businesses that have combined that came together that a year or so ago we didn't have.
If you just think about the convenience store part of our business the petroleum part of our business those 3 businesses as individual businesses were good in NCR or in Radiant or in Retalix.
But what they have a capability of doing together is allowing us to just have better segment penetration moving down market on hardware and you're seeing our organic software for the first time grow year-on-year.
I mentioned some of the results in Q4 but we're encouraged by the organic software now plus the Retalix now going the down market.
So we just feel like we have a much better balanced story in Retail which is -- which gives us the confidence.
And I think Bob said it best when he said it's a business transformed because it's obviously business that's had the benefit of both the organic and the inorganic investments coming together now for some time.
So team's hard at work at delivering that globally.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one if I could.
The -- to kind of steal a slide from Analyst Day and update it you had a core working capital metrics slide at your Analyst Day and it basically showed a percentage of quarterly sales as a percentage of the core working capital.
It looked like you guys came in at like 55% versus the third quarter of 71%.
So clearly an improvement.
I'm wondering if we use that as a benchmark because it was certainly -- it wasn't good as '12 and it was about even until '11.
Is that -- are we shooting for something in the 40s in order to get to that? I mean I can see your reconciliation table on 16 but I'm also trying to update this other one.
Yes yes.
No no.
That's a chart that we very much focused on.
It was driving working capital as a percentage of revenue and I think as a number more in line with the yearly sales.
You've quoted the quarterly number the 55%.
That was our goal and that's what we achieved.
My goal again is to drive 15% of working capital as a percentage of the 12 months of revenue.
It would equate probably pretty close to the 55%.
So again that metric doesn't drift.
I'd like to get it maybe closer to 14%.
I've seen that in the past.
So again I'm always focused on improving working capital.
So could it get better than the 55%? Yes but that's kind of where it's been in '11 and then again in '13.
And for our next question we go to Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Not to belabor the point about the 2014 numbers but I just look at your 2015 guidance and you gave that very recently and I'm sure you're probably pretty confident in that.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of -- does this really show that 2014 guidance is just very conservative just given that you've 8% growth in earnings into 2014 and then you'd almost need 20% growth into 2015 to kind of hit the midpoint of both guidance ranges.
So does this really look like maybe it's -- that 8% growth into 2013 might be a little bit too conservative and should be higher? Or how do we think about that? Yes.
I mean we had given the guidance at Analyst Day for '15 of $3.60 to $3.85 and then when we announced Digital Insight we said that that acquisition would be $0.15 accretive in 2015 so basically upping us to the range of $3.75 to $4.
We feel good about that.
We have set ourselves up with the right investments.
We have 4 lines of business that are performing well.
Bill showed the software chart.
That's going to continue to grow and that's what's going to drive that profitability for '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on -- that's very helpful that you broke out the x Wal-Mart growth of the Retail business.
When should we start to see the 2 big self-checkout wins that you had announced flow through? So I'm just trying to think about how we should look at the comps and how to think of it that way.
Yes.
I think 2014 -- as I said last quarter 2014 is a year where you should see shipments from those 2 wins that also continued shipments from our other customers around the world including the large customers that have made large purchases in the past.
That we think will continue in '14 and '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess because -- just because you have tough comps let's just say because you had Wal-Mart in the first quarter of last year a lot of these orders are going to start shipping.
So it shouldn't really be a tough comp from the previous year.
I think on a year-over-year basis Ian it should not be a difficult comp.
And Q1 will be a difficult comp of course because there was a -- just a fairly sizable shipment from one customer that went out in a single quarter.
But on the year no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question really is I know the emerging markets have been very good to you guys.
What are you seeing there now? What are you kind of hearing realtime there as far as demand and sort of sentiment et cetera? Yes.
We had a good year in the emerging markets.
We had a good quarter in the emerging markets.
Some of our best countries in Q4 for growth were India China Turkey Thailand Kuwait.
We've had some great quarters from a number of the emerging markets.
And of course Brazil continues to hum and do well for us.
So we feel good about the emerging markets.
Again as Bob stated earlier when you take North America ATMs out of the equation Financial Services had a pretty good year on an overall basis.
I mean I'm -- just one key point for you guys will be while the revenue declined FX-neutral call it negative 1% in '13 versus '12 software software maintenance and consulting revenue grew 6% FX-neutral in '13.
So the value proposition and transformation is well demonstrated even in a down year of what we're doing.
So it's not just talk and customers validated it in Q4 in 2013 despite the volume drop.
So I feel good about emerging markets.
I feel good about the mix shift they're driving.
It's evident in the operating margins of the business.
I think there was a couple of times last year where it might be thought that the operating margin improvement came from onetime events.
They're not.
This is systemic a change a transformation in that business and it showed up quite well for us across the board.
And for our next question we go to Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Going back to the 2014 guidance here we see a huge delta between the NPOI growth at 26% and the EPS growth of 7% to 10%.
Bob is that primarily because of the higher interest expense and the higher tax rate? Yes.
It is Meghna.
It's mainly the highest -- higher interest rate and tax rate.
And you can see that fairly clearly on Page 20 where we break out the '14 guidance and then have the '13 comparables.
But you can see OIE increasing from $112 million to $200 million and then the tax rate changing from 22% to 26%.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay and the next question for Bill.
In your discussions with the regional banks what are they saying regarding their investment plans around deposit automation this year? Do you think that the EMV Windows 7 upgrade requirement will act as a catalyst? Well there's no doubt Meghna.
It's already doing that.
We're seeing that flow through in orders in Q4 and here orders in Q1 even in month 1 a solid start to the year.
We'll see more of that as the year goes on not just from retail banks but large banks as well.
I would note that by the way a significant portion of our branch transformation business does also Tier 1 banks.
We're seeing good traction in Tier 1 banks for service solutions in branch.
But Win 7 EMV having a small impact now nothing significant and will have more of an impact as the year goes on and at the first quarter of '15.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with the Hospitality it continues to -- you guide to like 12% to 15% for the year.
But can you go over some of the key assumptions behind your guidance and what's really driving growth in this particular segment? It really continues to be a strong North America market and then expansion internationally.
John did you want to...
Yes another -- it's another -- yes it's another important balance story.
So first we're taking share and I think that's important to note.
So if you look at our growth in North America SMB that's why I pointed out both SaaS growth sites growth North America SMB growth.
These are areas we're traditionally strong so you would've anticipated to see growth for our businesses international where we're seeing that.
But we're also seeing it in the core.
The team has just done an exemplary job of understanding their customer base and creating delivery models to satisfy that customer base both in the direct and indirect channel.
Not to mention the fact that NCR and NCR's wallet coming in a couple of years ago investing very significantly in a number of different things that business would not have been able to afford to do.
We're beginning to yield those results.
So as long as that business continues to grow and deliver the margins that we expect to deliver we're going to continue to invest in it.
Because even with its share gains just from an overall concentration basis it's still a market that's wide open to us.
So we're very enthusiastic about it both domestically and internationally.
And Meghna I would also point to the fact that we have an amazing technology in that business.
We have tremendous innovation in our Hospitality solution.
We have -- so we've invested significantly as per John's comments but we have a technology lead.
We have the best software and hardware and mobile platforms in the world and our SaaS platform is unmatched our SaaS applications our SaaS solutions which is why you're seeing the growth you're seeing in SaaS in that business.
And we go next to Natalia Kogay with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Natalia Kogay for Katy Huberty here.
I know that you don't provide quarterly for cash flow guidance but could you provide some commentary on -- for cash flow seasonality as we move through 2014? And then specifically what kind of free cash flow conversion we can expect in 1Q? And I have a follow-up as well.
Yes I really do not want to go down the path of giving quarterly free cash flow guidance.
I'm trying to stay focused on the longer term here.
We're driving free cash flow to de-lever the balance sheet create growth opportunities.
It's a seasonal business.
To be honest if working capital isn't building early in the year that's when I get concerned because I'm driving a higher revenue in the back half of the year.
So I'll be very focused.
I like to collect my cash as early as possible.
So we're pushing the team to improve all of the metrics whether it's DSO or inventory.
But again I do believe that the linearity will be improved.
I will not have as much free cash flow coming in in the fourth quarter as I saw this year on a percentage of the total.
But again that seasonal linearity is just something that exists.
And let me just say this to everyone on the line as well.
It's important to make this point on cash flow.
Both Bob and I are laser-focused on improving cash flow conversion as a percent of NPOI.
And trust me there's a lot of going on that will yield to great results over the next several years.
Linearity of that cash flow and oh by the way I just changed the bonus plan for every employee on a bonus plan at NCR this year.
We have about 5 000 people on a bonus plan at NCR.
Everyone of them now gets paid on 2 components: NPOI and free cash flow.
It's the first time we've done it and it should yield better results more education and greater focus in the long term.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And then the second question is in 2013 41% I believe CapEx growth outpaced your I'm thinking non-pension OpEx growth of 9% and we saw a similar gap in 2012.
Can you just comment on what drove that CapEx growth and whether we should expect more of the cost to be expensed in 2014? Well again at 2014 I've given guidance of $250 million to $260 million up from to $226 million.
The majority of that increase is Digital and investing continuing to invest in their business whether it's through data centers or through software enhancements.
I would say that as the CapEx has increased over the last couple of years it's a combination of a focus on process improvement.
For example internally we are doing things like creating a customer portal a spend analytics tool a number of things that just improve processes within NCR.
I've made a big investment in CapEx in India in terms of the business model in India.
I continue to fund Retalix Hospitality John's other software businesses and Digital Insight in terms of SaaS applications.
So all of these opportunities have to meet a 15% hurdle rate or cost of capital of 10%.
But then I throw in a risk premium of 5% on top of that.
So again these are opportunities that compete against each other.
I'm slowing down the CapEx when you normalize for Digital.
And again I have turned back some opportunities.
But I do want to continue to invest because that's what creates the sustainable revenue growth -- the high sustainable revenue growth into the future.
And for our next question we go to Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Two 2 quick questions here.
First is a pretty easy one.
I think branch transformation you guys have provided some guidance in terms of what you anticipated to generate in revenue in '13 and '14.
Bill can you just go through that again? Yes.
So in -- on the revenue side Matt think about us hitting about $75 million in revenue on the year all in.
It's -- now the difficulty there is we don't track annuity revenue services post-sales support as closely on those units yet.
But we hit probably around $75 million.
We'll double that in '14 if not do a little bit better than that in '14.
So we're on track with what we described from last several quarters in terms of the opportunity there.
Research Division</strong> And then Bob I'm just -- I'm still trying to figure out cash flow.
And Bill I think it's probably an excellent move to put people on a comp plan that relates to that and I'm big advocate of that.
But Bob I'm looking at how you've defined free cash flow in the past.
In the third quarter you looked at it as operating cash flow less PP&amp;E capitalized software.
In this press release you're now subtracting discretionary pension contributions and settlement.
So I guess I'm trying to figure out if you actually hit your cash flow forecast or not.
Yes.
No change Matt.
No change.
We've always had the same definition.
What we've done is we've always taken our free cash flow the operating cash.
We've excluded the -- I should say we've taken the operating cash adjusted for CapEx and discontinued operations.
We think that's very transparent and then when there's onetime pension contributions we've normalized free cash flow that way.
So that's consistent with how we've been doing it.
The normal pension contributions are as outlined on Page 16.
So $79 million in 2013 $70 million in 2014 but that does exclude any onetime contributions that were made in '13.
Research Division</strong> As I look at free cash flow and kind of the way you guys are looking at it as a percent of NPOI Bill as you're thinking about this longer term and you're moving the organization more on cash metrics and if I look at companies in my coverage universe that I would characterize as world-class cash generators they're at about 80% to 85% conversion of operating profit.
And I guess I'm wondering where you think ultimately NCR can get to.
In the medium term Matt 50% to 60% in that range that's the next 3 years.
Obviously Bob and I are shooting for higher than that.
But longer term Matt given the work we've done on pension we think we could get to 60% to 70%.
Matt when you look at some of these things they'll just naturally come down.
The pension contributions we've said was going to go from 70% to 50%.
Some of the CapEx is being spent to grow our manufacturing footprint so that won't be around the India project.
That's a 2-year project.
So just by their nature some of these outflows will decrease and then the NPOI will help as well so that 50% to 60% is very achievable goal.
Yes Matt.
And think about this one.
Fox goes away at some point later this century.
I'm kidding about that -- in 2017 or so.
So -- but I'm waiting for 2017 Matt like you can't believe.
When that goes away that's about $40 million a year in run rate costs for us right now in cash.
Research Division</strong> Do think there's any chance that Kalamazoo can be another Fox? Or is that more contained if you will? Yes.
More contained Matt.
Yes -- no.
No we're not worried about that.
And we go next to Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> And I actually want to start by congratulating you for completing the pension program.
I know I'm going to appreciate not having to ask about pensions anymore in the future after 5 years of that discussion over that so congratulations on that.
I wanted to ask first about self-service checkout in the Retail segment.
What percentage of revenue was that in 2013? And what percent do you expect that to be in '14? Do you have that? Yes.
Self-checkout as a percentage of revenue for '13...
I'm going to guess for you Gil.
I'm going to guess and let's see if I'm right because I've got a couple of guys here looking at numbers.
I'm going to guess it was about 30% of hardware revenue and probably around 10% to 15% of overall revenue.
Research Division</strong> In the Retail line? In the retail line all in.
Research Division</strong> And then second question is about -- you provided us with the numbers for Digital Insight for 2014.
But could you tell us what the aggregate number are -- is for all the other small acquisitions Alaric the Hospitality distributors all those for 2014 or even the equivalents for 2013? And then if your 2014 guidance includes any other acquisitions big or small? Yes 2014 guidance right now does not include any other acquisitions.
Alaric is small in terms of its contribution.
We had said that on the last and then the other ones are relatively small as well.
So Gil we're very focused on the Digital Insight piece.
Nothing in '14 in terms of impacting these numbers.
This is all basically what we have in our portfolio today.
Gil this is Bill.
The math was done.
I'm happy to tell you it was correct.
Self-checkout was 12% of total revenues in '13.
Research Division</strong> And what's the expectation for '14? Probably around the same Gil.
That'd be my guess in that same range.
And with that ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions on our roster.
Therefore Mr.
Nuti I will turn the conference back over to you for any closing remarks.
Well thank you to all of you for joining us tonight and we look forward to speaking to you again in April.
Good night.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the NCR Corporation First Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Tracy Krumme Vice President Investor Relations Please go ahead ma'am.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me on the call today are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Bruno Executive Vice President; and Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer.
Our presentation and discussion today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and in our periodic filings with the SEC including our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will be referring to presentation materials posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in the presentation materials and our earnings release and are also available on the Investors section of NCR's Web-site.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on our Web-site ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of April 29 2014 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this call whether as a result of new information or future events.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Tracy and good afternoon to all of you and thank you for joining our Q1 call.
I'm now on Slide 3 and I'm going through the Q1 2014 financial highlights.
Let me start with revenue.
Revenue was up 8% year-on-year and 10% when you take into effect constant currency.
And inside that revenue stream is something that we're tracking and providing you more color on recurring revenue was up 22% year-on-year mainly as a result of the influence that Digital Insight had on recurring revenue and now recurring revenue represent 44% of total revenue.
Remember that recurring revenue for us is hardware maintenance software maintenance and SaaS so quite a strict definition of recurring revenue.
Operational gross margin up 120 basis points year-on-year again a solid quarter year-on-year in terms of growth on operational gross margins driven by software and SaaS primarily and we'll talk more about that in a moment.
We had a record quarter in NPOI to $155 million year-on-year and that compares to $129 million in the prior year.
Bob will give you some color on [$829 million] (ph) given that you'll remember in Q1 last year we had a one-time accounting item for severance that featured prominently as a positive impact on the NPOI in Q1 last year.
But we did achieve an all-time high NPOI margin in Q1 of over 10% now it's double-digits in Q1 and Q1 is without question from a seasonality perspective always our most difficult quarter.
Free cash flow came in as expected in Q1.
Incidentally free cash flow include cash flow from operations was up year-on-year and free cash flow was down year on year mainly as a result of investments in CapEx primarily software CapEx and disc operations was higher year-on-year by $17 million again Bob will give you some more color on that.
I'm now on Slide 4 and something I want to make sure you're all aware of as we continue to execute this reinvention of NCR's continued investment built within these results today and they have been for quite some time and also built into our guidance on the year continues to be significant investments we're making in R&amp;D services as well as sales.
I want to take you through a couple of those so you're aware of what we're doing and the impact it's having.
First let me start off by saying it is our goal to continue to balance this business model transformation effort we're going through to a hardware-enabled software driven business with the right investments to achieve that goal and this is a quarter where you saw R&amp;D as a percent of revenue reach an all-time high for NCR of over 4% of revenues.
It also happens to be up R&amp;D 15% year-on-year so growing about twice as fast as the top line.
Much of that is being invested in software and SaaS.
However as we balance those investments with hardware we'll continue to see more investments going up in software and coming down and move to commodity spaces.
Over the last several quarters and going forward we're also investing in services.
We are absolutely riveted on delivering a competitively differentiated solution to our customers and making services a competitive advantage for NCR and you should be aware that those investments are quite significant as we look at the amount we're investing in headcount parts and process along with tools and use systems for our services workforce.
In each of our lines of business we're also making point investments as well.
So for example you are all aware of the investments we're making in DI and services I just went through that that affects all lines of business.
And as goes Hospitality where we're addressing international expansion sales software and SaaS and then Emerging Industries where we're making investments to onboard and make us a more capable provider of managed services long-term.
I'm now on Slide 5 and here's where I want to break out for you our software related revenues in Q1 and update Q1 guidance on the full year.
The net on guidance there's no change to our full year guidance in terms of software related revenues.
However we had a great Q1 a good start to the year towards that long-term 2014 goal.
As you can see on the left software related revenue was up 45% year on year and even if I adjust for Digital Insight organic growth was quite significant and positive in the quarter.
However you can see we're becoming quite a large SaaS business with SaaS now up 242% year on year representing a significant portion of our overall software revenues.
On the right we still have a view towards our software related revenues that follows.
You can see PS at the top and the little SaaS and on the bottom in gray software licenses and software maintenance and we're still expecting 2014 software related revenue growth of 40% to 44%.
I'm now on Slide 6 and this is a new chart for all of you.
It's a breakout of our product categories and within that what percent each one represents of our total NCR revenues to give you a sense for the confidence we have and the confidence we think you should have in our ability to continue to expand our gross margins.
And what you can see is a very significant impact of software related revenues having on total revenue today as well as the decline in hardware related revenue and the steady state for the most part of our other services revenue in particularly the last few years.
As software revenues have increased you're seeing an impact to the other services line and you're seeing overall is a very positive impact on gross margin.
Upon that note let me ask John Bruno to take you through a few of the slides related to this commentary on the impact that these revenue streams are having on NCR more from a strategic point of view.
John?  Thank you Bill and to that point I'm on Page 7 and this is entitled 'Uniquely Positioned in Omni-Commerce Landscape' ' and I wanted to talk to this slide for a moment and start here because we're a complex business in that we serve multiple industries in multiple ways [indiscernible] not complex and what makes NCR unique is that we are uniquely positioned in the market.
NCR is at the intersection of business model innovation and the ever evolving consumer experience.
In fact we've always been positioned at this intersection and year in and year out we innovate to enable our customers to deliver improved sales growth operating efficiency and consumer satisfaction in all the way consumers conduct business through cash credit debit store value promotion and even [indiscernible].
And we did go to industries consumers care the most about where they bank shop eat drink and travel our lines of business.
Perhaps most importantly we enable all of this across all of the channels consumers use to connect interact and transact with business online tablet mobile kiosk in-store et cetera.
That's why the complete solutions of hardware services and now multi-channel software and SaaS offering are compelling and differentiating products of our portfolio.
On Page 8 we want to also make the point that the rapidly growing transaction process that we deliver across all the industries we serve is done so across both physical and digital platforms.
This is important because whether it's a retail bank or retail is across all the segments we serve and includes even travel and hospitality what is consistent is that our customers are leveraging all their assets to reach consumers for more touch points as they evolve their business models.
More convenient access delivered through and integrated cross channel platform is at the center of our hardware enabled software driven business model and is key to our customer success.
That's why more of our discussions are now in the [indiscernible] suite versus operations and procurement.
When we felt consumer transaction technology it's important to shape the consumer experience and focus on where you can differentiate and offer strategic value and when the software content is high.
Branch transformation mobile banking mobile order pay self check out client telling loyalty these are all really good examples of value creation in that space.
We have an expansive software solutions portfolio and on Page 9 you can see a number of examples guidelines of business where our value proposition to customers has changed around our software offering.
At NCR we have a strategic and purposeful plan to take advantage of the ultimate space in the market and define what that is.
We are committed to continuous innovation by line of business and being the number one technology solutions provider by industry.
What may not be well understood is that the majority of our software solutions are now unattached software solutions meaning they can be sold independent of our hardware solutions.
This translates to quite a different go to market delivery model for NCR and is the result of our multiyear strategy and the catalyst to our operating structure.
As example our goal is to not only be the number one global provider of ATM unit but also the number one in ATM multi-vendor software.
We are also number one amongst new [indiscernible] sales software and the number one vendor under consideration for future retail software purchases according to IHL/RIS Study that was published in January of 2014.
Now please turn to Page 10.
On the next five slides we're attempting to provide you financial highlights and performance highlights guidelines of business as opposed to the consolidated view we provided you previously.
It will also include commentary on key developments by the line of business that we believe are important to share as each business is either in various phase of transformation or strategic execution.
Hopefully you'll find this format more useful as you better understand each of our lines of businesses.
Starting with Financial Services we were pleased with the strong results in the quarter.
Revenue was up 11% year on year with strong margin improvement of 500 basis points primarily due to a favorable revenue mix including a higher percentage of software related revenue of 92% year on year.
We had strong orders quarter driven by North America orders growth of 28% excluding Digital Insight and growth in the small to medium-sized banks Branch Transformation and software.
We enter Q2 with a strong backlog both in terms of volume and mix as there is more software and Professional Services in that mix.
Excluding Digital Insight the core also had solid performance with operating margin improvement of 310 basis points and software related revenue growth of 17%.
The key developments for Financial Services I'd like to call your attention to includes balanced performance globally as well as keeping an eye on Russia continued momentum in Branch Transformation.
In fact Branch Transformation revenues were up 300% year on year.
And we had 17 new APTRA Interactive Services customers of which five are international customers and we had a strong start to Digital Insight.
On Digital Insight please turn to Page 11.
As we've committed to do and done historically with the acquisitions of Radiant and Retalix we want to provide you a quarterly update on our integration activities for our full year as we assimilate these companies into NCR's operating model.
[indiscernible] they become core to our business and [indiscernible] overall business execution.
Let's start with an update on Digital Insight.
I'll start off by [announcing that] (ph) our main objective is to demonstrate commitment to be a global leader in omni-channel retail banking transformation.
This is critical because of the way consumers are interacting with retail banking but it's also critical to the markets we serve the small to medium sized banks that are a very important part of our growth strategy not only domestic but internationally.
Another key acquisition objective is we expect to see slightly accretive non-GAAP diluted EPS particularly in 2014 and 2015 and accretive to 2015.
First let's start with the numbers.
Q1 revenue of $76 million and operating income of $23 million came in at in line with our expectations.
Qualitatively we had very good feedback from existing Digital Insight customers on the power of NCR's omni-channel banking solutions.
Any investments we've made are in line with the transition to run this business within the NCR data center.
We've had good win rate through offer such as mobile in our existing customer base up approximately 49%.
In fact 83% year on year increase in mobile active user rates 5.5 million total mobile users versus 3 million just last year.
On Page 12 our Retail line of business experienced choppy execution in the quarter.
Revenue was flat year on year and up 1% on a constant currency basis in line with our expectation given the tough comp in Q1 of the prior year.
The operating income decline of 12% was due to an unfavorable mix of revenue and continued investments in the business.
While Retail software related revenues were up significantly up 27% year-on-year they were below our internal expectations.
As we transform to a more software driven business model with larger software deal sizes we're focused to improve linearity within the quarter and execution in this space overall.
Orders were down mid-single digits year-on-year driven by North America.
We did have strong orders in the rest of world.
Backlog is up significantly however and roll out of larger order is pushing revenue to the end of the year and into 2015.
Key developments in the quarter for Retail that we want to call your attention to include strong revenue and other growth in Europe Middle East and Africa Retalix is continuing to perform very well experienced strong demand for R10 and NCR at the top in new leadership ranking number one point of sale software vendor leader in traditional North American ePOS and self-checkout terminal provider leader in North America POS share gain and strong order growth in self-checkout.
From a market development perspective we are experiencing capital spending priorities changing to a change in focus to data privacy and security and we are seeing consolidation within U.S.
grocery segment.
In the quarter we have also introduced new innovative SaaS solutions such as NCR Cloud Connect and NCR Command Center to respond to some of these key developments in the market.
Let's turn to Page 13 to review our Hospitality line of business.
The revenue came in at $149 million up 13% year on year with revenue growth across all theaters.
Operating income of $12 million was down 43% year on year.
This decline was due to unfavorable revenue mix and investments in international expansion.
Software related revenue was up 2% with SaaS revenue up 11% and SaaS application sites up 20% year on year showing strong growth in this important part of the segment.
The key developments in the quarter we would like to call your attention to are solid geographic expansion showing our traction in these areas with revenue growth in Europe Asia Middle East and Africa.
We have new international customers primarily in Brazil and Germany and we have a continued focus on our North American small and medium business market with 22% revenue growth year on year.
Also continued investments in software and our capabilities and new opportunities in applications with the fast adoption of software SaaS and mobile solutions.
In fact NCR was recognized by the Technology Association of Georgia as one of the top-ten most innovative companies for our mobile payment solution.
The work that the Hospitality [indiscernible] is doing with [indiscernible] mobile pay loyalty ordering and customer voice shows that NCR remains a lead innovator.
On page 14 you'll find a summary of our Emerging Industry line of business.
This consists of telecom and technology travel and now small business.
From a financial highlights perspective in the quarter revenue is $85 million up 12% year on year with growth in T&amp;T.
Operating income of $4 million was down 60% year on year partly due to lower software related revenue and the increased cost and investments in ramping up our managed service contracts in T&amp;T.
We are constantly reshaping our services' revenue stream because commoditization of [indiscernible] services can negatively impact margins over the long term and we want to be more value-added and move away from the commodity to more managed services.
Over that long-term we will do this across services and what we've done in our product portfolio which we move up the value chain and offer more software than hardware.
The key developments in the quarter that we felt were important to highlight are in telecom and technology expanded service offerings by providing on-site maintenance and support for customers.
In travel we have a continued focus on airport and airline innovation in emerging countries such as China and Oman and we delivered a record 15 million mobile airlines boarding passes up 90% year on year.
In small business we will continue to invest in our small business segment to build SaaS based business model which over time we expect to deliver very good results.
We have seen an increase in adoption of our NCR Silver customer base to over 7 000 and we now have over 15 000 devices within the Silver product portfolio.
This emerging industry segment is an important area where we continue to make investments as we feel they are critical to generate growth in the future.
With that let me turn the call back to Bill to provide summary comments on our overall execution highlighted on Page 15.
Bill? Thank you John.
As I summarize Q1 our revenue growth in the quarter were clearly led by a strong Financial Services Hospitality and Emerging Industries and Retail was up slightly in the quarter but again on a difficult compare year-over-year.
What's driving revenue growth is interesting.
As you look under the covers Branch Transformation mobile self checkout and demand from our omni-channel software is driving both orders and revenue.
And as I mentioned recurring revenue is growing as a percent of total revenue as well as on a year on year basis.
And certainly strong software growth and SaaS growth in the quarter lifted our margins and will continue to in the out quarters.
I was pleased with the performance of DI in Q1 and the Q1 results were solid and the integration plan we have in place in track.
It should be noted as well we're equally pleased with Retalix and Hospitality even in light of the quarterly operational income margin decline.
We are making significant investments in NCR along the way and I wanted to remind you of those.
Our investments in R&amp;D services and the pinpointed investments we're making by line of business will impact both the current quarter future quarters and provide long-term growth sustainability for our investors.
Cash flow from operations was up year on year but free cash flow down as a result of continued investment mainly in software capitalization and a higher discontinued operations quarter for us but we remain on track for our guidance on the year.
We are going to modify guidance on the top line and take it down 2 percentage points from the high and low end.
Bib will take you through the reasons why but think about that as partially a higher expectation on FX impact and lower Retail revenues primarily.
And we will also maintain our full year NPOI and EPS guidance.
However we feel like at this time it's coming at the low end of that range.
Bob? Thank you Bill.
I'm on Page 17 which shows the Q1 operational results for the Company.
Here you can see the strong revenue growth up 8% as reported and 10% on a constant currency basis.
As Bill mentioned the operational gross margin rate was 28.6% or 120 basis points higher than last year driven by significantly more software and SaaS.
Expenses were in line with the prior year at 18.4% reflecting solid expense management.
NPOI was at a record high of 10.2%.
EPS was lower than last year for a couple of reasons.
Last year we had a $13 million benefit in NPOI relating to the amendment to the U.S.
separation plan.
This year we also had higher interest expense.
The effective tax rate in the quarter was 17% slightly higher than the prior year of 16%.
Last year's tax rate benefited from tax suspenders being biased.
This year's rate benefited from audit settlements in the quarter.
Page 18 breaks out the Q1 GAAP results.
We've included a new page in the back of section it's on Page 33.
It does a nice job of bridging the GAAP to non-GAAP results for Q1.
It includes a number of enhancements like splitting out SG&amp;A and R&amp;D and also more clearly breaks out the non-GAAP adjustments.
I think you'll find it with an improvement and quite helpful.
On Page 19 you can see the revenue split by line of business.
We were pleased with the revenue growth in the quarter.
Financial Services up 14% constant currency and excluding Digital Insight up 4% constant currency.
It's nice to see growth in Financial again and it's reflective of the order growth we saw in Q4 and the backlog position starting the year.
Backlog continues to grow in Financial based on strong orders in Q1 especially in North America and Branch Transformation and backlog is up 9% in overall Financial entering Q2.
Retail growth of 1% on a constant currency basis was as expected as the prior year Q1 included a significant amount of revenue from the Walmart self checkout rollout.
Hospitality and Emerging Industries continued with strong growth.
Overall total revenue was up 10% constant currency and the core business excluding Digital Insight was up 4%.
On Page 20 you can see the operating margin by line of business.
Financial Services was up 13% for the quarter and up 500 basis points.
Excluding Digital Insight the core business operating margin was up 310 basis points.
Retail Solutions and Hospitality was down from the previous year.
Both businesses experienced an unfavorable mix of revenue and continued investment.
While software was up significantly in Retail it was lower than we had expected.
In Hospitality we continued to make investments to expand internationally.
Our Emerging Industries line of business consists of telecom and technology travel and small business.
Margins were lower than last year as we incurred onboarding costs associated with new managed services contract.
Emerging Industry continues to be an area where we will make investments to generate growth in the future.
On a full year basis we expect operating margins to improve significantly in Retail Hospitality and Emerging.
I expect Retail to be slightly better than the prior year Hospitality to be roughly in line with the prior year and Emerging to be around 10% to 12% for the full year as we continue to invest in small business and travel and grow our managed services.
We expect that Financial Services will continue to be strong throughout the year.
On Page 21 we have shown a split of the revenue by software hardware and other services.
You can see the strong growth in SaaS PS and total software related revenue.
Other services which primarily include our traditional break/fix business showed nice growth at 3%.
Hardware revenue in the quarter reflects a similar trend that we have seen as the Company continues to focus on more software and recurrent services.
Software was 26% of revenue in the quarter.
As we continue with our transformation to a hardware enabled software and services business we think this additional information will help you value NCR more effectively and provide a better understanding into our business.
We also think that some of the part's analysis shows we are significantly undervalued.
In terms of the profitability of each stream you can think of software excluding PS being around 60% to 65% gross margin total software related revenue including PS of around 50% to 55% gross margin hardware typically between 20% and 25% and other services around 25%.
These are annual gross margin rates including all corporate allocation and give you a sense of the profitability of each stream.
On Page 22 you can see free cash flow for the quarter.
Cash provided by operating activities improved by $10 million primarily related to improved profitability CapEx was higher by $21 million with roughly half of that in software capital.
Disc ops was worse by $17 million primarily related to recoveries received in the year ago period related to Fox River.
Moving to Slide 23 you can see how our target of $300 million to $350 million of free cash flow builds to an adjusted free cash flow of between $440 million to $510 million when you exclude nonoperational items.
This is around 90% of non-GAAP net income versus 80% in the prior year period.
On Slide 24 you can see our net debt position at the end of Q1 2014 after the closing of the Digital Insight transaction.
We end the quarter with a net debt leverage multiple of around 3.7x.
As we mentioned based on our free cash flow generation and EBITDA growth we delever quickly and anticipate ending the year at around 3x leverage which is much better than what we had signaled earlier.
The EBITDA calculation that we use is detailed in the back of sections in the chart.
Forecasting our EBITDA provides another opportunity to help our investors value NCR.
Slide 25 outlines our guidance for the year.
The only change is bringing revenue down to 10% to 12% from a previous 12% to 14% growth rate.
Part of the decrease is due to a 1 point negative impact from FX.
Excluding Digital Insight NCR is expected to grow the core revenue 4% to 6%.
We're pleased to be able to reaffirm NPOI and EPS guidance and even with the revenue- at this point we feel more comfortable with the low end of the range for NPOI and EPS guidance even with the revenue headwind.
At this point we feel more comfortable with the low ends of the range for NPOI and EPS and as always we'll continue to update you as the year progresses.
On the next stage Slide 26 you can see that we are reaffirming our guidance for Financial and Emerging.
We are bringing Retail down to reflect a number of negative headwinds.
We're seeing the change in capital spending priorities as a result of a heightened focus on data privacy and security and we are also seeing a number of consolidations in the U.S.
grocery segment.
We are experiencing a slower rollout of some of our larger orders.
Finally we are transforming the Retail business to be less reliant on one-time software licenses and more focused on a recurring revenue stream.
We are bringing Hospitality down slightly to reflect the slower start to the year than expected.
Growth in Hospitality is still strong at 8% to 10%.
Our Q2 guidance is listed on Page 27.
We expect NPOI growth of 13% to 18%.
The core business excluding DI continues to perform well but faces a challenging OI compare as the prior year Q2 included a large one-time software deal and a vendor settlement.
We expect the tax rate to be 29% and other expense including interest expense to be $50 million.
I expect revenue growth to be roughly in line with the growth rate that we saw in Q1 the one exception being Hospitality which will be more in line with the revised revenue guidance think of mid-to high single digits for Hospitality in the second quarter.
In general revenue will ramp higher in the back half of the year as we grow orders in Q2 and build backlog.
The final chart lists our 2014 goals for the year.
We continue to focus on growing our business driving more software SaaS and recurring revenue improving our free cash flow and delevering.
And with that I will open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you and thanks so much for all these additional disclosures super helpful.
I wanted to start off on a few things.
One is we look at the contribution from Digital Insight in the quarter the margins on that business were materially higher than I anticipated despite kind of a little bit of a partial quarter ownership and I would have thought right of the back pretty significant investment.
So is this kind of run rate that we are seeing in this quarter sustainable or should we bring that down because the investments are really just now kicking in? Dan this is Bill.
I think what you should be thinking about the guidance we gave at the beginning of the year still holds right now.
It was a good it was a great start let me just say that to our relationship with Digital Insight.
We have all spent a lot of time in California with our teams and are building a relationship getting to know that business.
And I would not yet want to commit to any higher rate of improvement than we had already given for guidance until we get another quarter under our belt.
But suffice it to say we're pleased with the start.
Yes we've given guidance on our last call of $85 million to $90 million of NPOI.
We're still comfortable with that.
Again it does include some duplicate cost in terms of the data centers.
So those will be incurred as well to – that's included in the number.
We have been hearing that you were expanding your sales force pretty dramatically there.
Is that something that you can confirm or is that just kind of your same in the market? No I think we are.
I think we are working towards that goal.
We're working on that now Dan.
It's part of the investments we've made in Q1.
We think there's a lot of latent opportunity in that segment of the market but we had a great quarter in Q1 in Financial Services and the small and medium-sized bank segment our orders in that segment were up 49% year on year partially driven by better than expected synergies with DI revenue synergies in that segment.
So we're seeing a better run rate there than we expected.
Okay.
If I could just jump over to Retail for a second did the capital spending focus changed in a post Target and as we think about the kind of pace of play in the mix shift the things that are going on there are you finding that some of your legacy kind of hardware business in Retail it's going to falling off a little bit faster than you are able to ramp some of this more recurring SaaS revenue as an example so the rate of change between those two dynamics is also causing a little bit of a curtailment of the guidance? Yes let me give you more specific response.
So in Q1 two things two macro changes occurred and I'll get to the strategic focus we have in a moment but one was we began to see our customers shift more attention to data privacy as a result of the obvious impact that Target has had in the market appropriately I think even the issues that all retailers are faced with.
And so priorities have changed a bit.
Now that's a pro and a con for us.
In one dimension it pushes off a bit some of the opportunities we're working on with them in hardware and perhaps even in software.
But we do have solutions we sell into that segment that we're encouraged by mainly their SaaS solutions.
So we're seeing a shift there from what would be a one-time hardware sale to more of a longer term SaaS based sales.
So as an example we sell a new product called Connected Payments which is a SaaS-based payments solutions that is a software offering.
That is quite popular now as a result of the positive impact it has on data privacy.
Secondly we had the consolidation of three major grocers in the U.S.
in March SuperValu Albertsons and Safeway and all three were hardware customers of ours and that had somewhat of an impact short term on us as well in the quarter.
So those are a few macro factors.
And then we are consciously then beginning to transition more of our revenues over to more recurring revenue streams over time.
So those are the three things that are underway that caused us to feel like we didn't take the revenue guidance down for Retail on the year.
Okay.
And I'll ask one more and I'll jump off.
On Hospitality you called a slower start to the year.
I'm just wondering is there a competitive dynamic that's occurring in the market or do you think that's just broad-based industry-wide? In particular it's obviously going to be more focused in the U.S.
but it would seem to be the micros has gotten a lot more aggressive in this space since new management has come onboard and I'm just wondering if this is an early indication of you guys bailing out a bit more.
Thanks I'll jump off.
I don't see that Dan.
And by the way we don't have our head in the sand on competition.
So I want to be clear we look at the competition closely.
I don't see that yet.
I think Q1 for us was a good quarter in terms of top line growth and the operating margin is a bit of a one-time anomaly based on the combination of mix and a very significant year on year investment quarter for us in Hospitality.
So as Bob said we'll get those margins back to where they were last yr on the operating margin line in next several quarters but we felt that it was prudent given the start to the year just to adjust slightly their growth.
Remember a couple of points on that business is not a lot in aggregate dollar volume.
It's about $15 million or $20 million.
So it's not a significant move but we'll keep you updated on that.
I do think that we're making good progress internationally but we've certainly invested a bit to do that and I expect that to pick up in 2015 for us.
John? The only thing I'd add Dan is it's plain and simple a revenue growth story which we are proud of and expense growth story which we proceed with and that's something that we typically don't do in the business except for one that we believe in that type of growth really makes a whole lot of sense.
So if we didn't see the deals in the funnel the international growth and the capability I had a different feeling but the fact that we're stating what we are around the margin really tells you we feel good about the business.
We want to make sure we absorb the expense growth appropriately and we execute against the plans of investments that we have.
That's really our focus.
So I look at it more as execution than I do competition but we are aware of the competition but it's not a competitive headwind.
Yes Dan I would say one more thing.
I'm not a big fan of investing significantly ahead of revenue growth as we have.
Just to put that in perspective in Q1 expense growth for Hospitality was 26% year on year.
So it's a big number in terms of what we're investing there.
Excellent.
Thank you that's very helpful.
Our next question will come from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
So I'd like to develop on this investment activity a little bit.
I'm trying to understand what the point of the focus on R&amp;D expenditure on Slide 2 or 3 is.
Is it that you're saying that it's going to be more than we anticipated or are you just trying to remind us that the Company is investing while sort of doing other things? I'm not quite sure I understand the message there.
That is a reminder Paul along the way to make sure people understand that we are investing significantly.
I would say Q1 was a higher investment quarter for us and a bit anomalistic but I can't time every 90 days when we have to make certain investments.
We're also making significant investments this year in CapEx [but I think] (ph) we saw for the CapEx.
So I think the escape velocity of our P&amp;L in future years is such that as we begin to level off on some of these investments and businesses we should have upside as a result of two things.
One the ROI on these current investments we're making and then secondarily the levelling off at some point of the significant investments we're making in certain businesses along the way.
But I do want to make sure that we're clear on that.
Also I'd say Paul in general we have an opportunity to improve in the area of services efficiency productivity and other [indiscernible].
I would say today that the investments we're making in services is costing us – and by the way to our guidance – around $10 million a quarter for profit.
That will eventually turn into productivity as you look on programs to improve along those lines.
But we see a wonderful opportunity now in the market to make services delivery a competitive advantage.
We've had great success in the last six months Paul in service delivery based on these investments we see in some of our peers reducing costs reducing investments and going into different direction than us.
We think that part of the success we've had in Financial Services the last six months has to do with a direct correlation to service delivery in that space.
The guidance combining full year guidance with the second quarter outlook just slightly more backend loaded than [we on] (ph) the street were anticipating.
Is this a more backend loaded view than normal or was the street just a little bit kind of sloppy about its expectations here? And if it is backend loaded more than usual what is it that gives you the confidence in the numbers in not taking down full year guidance a bit more? Paul this year it's about from a seasonality perspective about normal for us in terms of profit.
I wouldn't call the street sloppy but I'll leave that with you.
I mean ultimately we measure each quarter from a seasonality point of view.
It's about normal for us in terms of what kind of profit contribution as a percent of total profit we see in Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4.
However we do have more confidence in the back half as a result mainly of Financial Services.
That business had a very strong Q1.
Order growth in Financial was up globally 7% on the quarter.
We turn towards North America growth of 28% in orders.
We also saw a good order growth in Asia-Pacific.
We had a great balanced quarter there.
I can tell you as well that while the backlog is up 9% year on year going into Q2 for Financial margins in the backlog are up 36%.
So there is a lot more software and PS in that backlog.
So this operating margin advantage we began to signal to you a few quarters ago by giving you this information around margins and the backlog continues now in Q2.
We also had Paul a terrific Branch Transformation quarter.
Orders were up 100% revenue up over 300% and now they are real numbers [for capital] (ph).
Our order flow in Q1 for Branch is over $32 million.
But it's real money and we're seeing significant traction there and that of course helps along with the great software growth we've had.
I'll just throw out two quick questions.
One is can you comment on IBM's sale of its point-of-sale business and what that means in terms of competitive landscape? And also on Branch Transformation it looks like [indiscernible] competitors feel that the sales cycle has been longer than you and certainly can see the same orders since you're in North America.
They cited among other things a longer sales cycle for Branch Transformation because it's sort of real estate associated.
Could you comment on those two things IBM and branch transformation sales? The IBM sale of their POS business is helping us and many of you mentioned.
We've won a few large contracts as a result of that.
So we think that is a net positive for us and we're seeing some more consolidation around that platform as a result of that.
And remember now we go to market with a complete end to end solution hardware software and services and that helped us quite significantly both in the US and outside.
In terms of Branch Paul I have to tell you we still feel very positive about that being around $150 million to $200 million business this year.
It's a very high-growth business for us.
The order cycle is not longer than ATM order cycle generally.
Once you get a proof of concept things move quickly.
Now remember we began our proof of concepts in this space a long time ago.
We were first to market with solutions in this space and we're now in production mode with many dozens of banks around the world not just in the U.S.
So we have a great pipeline in this space.
We're now two quarters in a row of orders of $30 million in this space and I think Q2 will be even bigger.
The only thing that I would add on the sales cycle discussion really relates to the IBM comment.
I would come down to the only pure play now total solutions provider for retail we have a pretty expansive portfolio something that customers are very interested in talking about.
[Indiscernible] installed bases have been around for quite some time there's lots of legacy infrastructure.
So the sales cycle displacement in the space is longer than it typically would be in a small cycle and otherwise because these are incumbent relations for quite some time.
What we are pleased is that we are pleased with the conversations we are having and the funnel of activity that we are driving in that space we're trying to get a handle on those conversion timelines that we're supposed to do with some of this stuff we're seeing inside of our Retail business itself.
Paul two more facts for you.
I think if you look at Q1 North America order growth for Financial was up 28% and that was driven by Branch Transformation and software.
And remember Branch Transformation is a higher-margin solution as well.
And then we had in North America a strong quarter overall in terms of software as well.
So it was a very solid start to the year there and I think we're well on our way to achieving over goals.
Our next question will come from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
Question would be on Bob you mentioned the FX of 1%.
What does that flow down to on the NPOI line? I'm just trying to get the moving parts.
I know you talked about maybe looking at the lower end of NPOI but I'm trying to get to that and figure out how much is fundamental how much is FX and hope you can help us with that.
From an overall perspective FX wasn't a huge impact for us in the quarter.
Certainly when you look at the revenue in Financials India and Brazil currencies hurt us from a top line perspective.
Overall for NPOI though it was fairly flat impact Ian.
I guess I meant [going into] (ph) full year.
Ian on the year if you think about the revenue just think about drop of around potentially $100 million or so in revenue on the year.
Partially that's FX driven partially Retail driven.
Think about the flow-through of that of around $15 million to NPOI in that range.
So we thought we can be at 900 to 920 was about where we would come in and of course we believe more 920 in nine with 920.
If we're taking about $100 million off the top line with a flow-through of about 15% it gets you to 900 to 910 or 905 in that range.
So we just thought it was prudent.
FX is a portion of that but I can't give you a sense for how much FX would drive the NPOI down by.
I would say somewhere around $5 million impact maybe from FX for the full year if that's your question.
Obviously the weaker yen does help us in terms of suppliers that we're buying from.
So that's how I think of the overall impact to the bottom line Ian.
Okay thank you very much.
And now we'll go to Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
The two self checkout order that was announced in Q3 Bob how should we think about the revenue contribution from these orders in Retail this year? I think no change Meghna.
I think we still have a solid year ahead of us in self checkout.
I think we feel good about that.
By the way orders for self checkout in Q1 were up 28% year on year.
So it's a good solid for the quarter for self checkout for us and I think we gave guidance on the last call mid-single digits order for revenue growth of self checkout we will get about that.
Okay.
And in light of these guidance revision how comfortable do you feel today with your 2015 targets which you reiterated last quarter? No change Meghna we feel the same.
So despite the weakness that you're seeing in Retail or Hospitality you still feel very comfortable with the numbers that you've put out for 2015? Yes we do.
Okay thank you.
And now we'll go to Matt Lipton with Autonomous Research.
I'll keep it quick.
So Bill you said last quarter as 1Q goes more year goes and I'm just thinking you have three more months of data and you've seen what's happening in Retail do you feel that the guidance is now roughly conservative going for the rest of the year? Yes I think it's right.
I mean the thing for me Matt is to get guidance right.
We have a good track record here of meeting or exceeding our guidance for a long long time and getting it right is a key.
If I look back on Q1 obviously I'm very pleased with historical Financial Services and often times as Financial Services goes [indiscernible] sometimes too but it's a great start for that team.
I'm encouraged by our backlog going into Q2.
Our backlog is up in both – by the way the Retail backlog is up 16% or 17% year on year as well going into Q2 but a number of those projects are going to roll out in Q4 and Q1 of '15 they've been pushed a bit by this refocus on data privacy a bit more than they have on some of the hardware offerings that we have but we [forget] (ph) about that.
And then Hospitality Matt just making sure that we continue our plan for the year in terms of a balanced investment portfolio with results.
So I think Q1 was a good start.
I think I would have liked to have a few more million in NPOI but I feel good about where we are and at the same time making the significant investments we did in Q1 by still achieving what we have.
I feel positive going into Q2.
I agree Financial up good in Q1 and you reported Digital Insight user growth of 83% just since we now have the historical data could you put that in context for us and then how correlated are user growth and revenue growth for that business? What was that question I'm sorry? 83% user growth in Digital Insight I was just hoping you might be able to give us some historical context to previous [indiscernible] and how correlated it is to revenues user growth? Yes [indiscernible].
Mobile user growth and DI is highly correlated to our overall growth in general but more importantly in margins.
That is a higher-margin business for us.
We look at the revenue per user in that space and feel good about where we're going.
That has a lot of room for improvement to be very candid with you although we're still repeatedly saying year on year that number should double in the next 18 months that I would be very disappointed if we weren't able to achieve that.
And candidly as we begin to move outside the U.S.
and in 2016 in that timeframe see even more considerable growth.
And remember it's not just 83% users just to be clear.
How we look at the 83% is active users that might be moving online within banking and bill pay and taking on the module for mobile.
So since mobile is a faster growing part of that business as we've guided and discussed on part of the acquisition rationale we see that mobile being the most attractive segment or the part of it that offer that the industry is most interested in.
That offsets the flattishness of the online bill pay part of the business as we prescribed.
So that's why it's a very good indicator to see that level of growth which was consistent with what our investment thesis was very consistent with what our diligence was and we are pleased to see the active users increase in mobile within the customer base.
Great and then just one quick housekeeping for Bob.
Is organic software growth around 15% for the quarter a good estimate? It is I was thinking that 395 left us 74 or 70.
So… And is there anything [indiscernible] in there as well just on top of that? Let me see real quickly Matt.
You are about right though you are in the range.
It was a good quarter for organic software growth and the answer would be yes it all should be in there.
Alright thanks very much.
So around 17% 18% organic software growth excluding Digital.
Hopefully you got that Matt 17% or 18%.
Yes I appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
And now we'll take our next question from Kartik Mehta from Northcoast Research.
Bill I just wanted to make sure I understand the Branch Transformation numbers that you gave out.
You said you're hoping for about $100 million to $200 million in revenue this quarter – I apologize for this year.
Would that mean that there is part of the ATM business that you'd expect maybe isn't doing so well because that's about 5% organic growth on last year's number or did I think about that maybe wrong? Kartik we're not seeing the cannibalization of in-lobby ATMs as a result of customers buying interactive teller or express banking kiosks from us.
So while I think there will be a longer-term impact I don't think it's going to be significant in that space although we really don't know yet right now.
I think given the volume we now have we'll need to monitor that a bit more than we've been able to within our shipping in that.
John any comments there? The way I think about it is I mean the way I describe it to the analysts it is a pure play adjacency for us if anything else would be because if you look at our whole Branch Transformation portfolio it includes offering inside the branch which was anything from a [indiscernible] to interactive teller to express kiosk to all the kiosks and software that runs alongside it plus the services that go along with it.
Those things were not parts of the revenue and profit areas that we had within the business previously.
Now do we look at what would that impact potentially be to rest of deal or through the wall or to [drive up] we do but we see very little.
In fact we're designing around that because we think that that cannibalization will be offset by us bringing to market over the coming years a lower cost point of service for an ATM because our financial services customers are looking for more points of service not less.
So they change and transform their physical branch [setting] (ph).
That bodes extremely well for Branch Transformation and as they do that reinvest that capital more points of service to me that bodes well for us to having a better ATM portfolio as we bring lower cost variance into the market.
So no we do not see that as a cannibalization and those are the reasons why.
And Kartik I'd say this I mean the investments we are now making in R&amp;D we're not going to talk about new solutions today but what we have coming out in the next two or three quarters in terms of new ATM solutions are really truly disruptive and ground-breaking.
Okay.
So it seems as though at least for 2014 you will get this Branch Transformation revenue plus whatever traditional ATM revenue you would have anticipated for the year.
Is that a fair assessment then of it? Yes it is.
And remember for us in large parts while we'll monitor the impact of in-lobby ATM shift potentially from in Branch Transformation kiosks most of our ATM business is outside the U.S.
So we will not see a tangible impact because we have such a big footprint outside the U.S.
And then Bill what type of exposure do you have to rush? I know that's a little bit tricky right now and I'm wondering what type of exposure do you have and maybe what you've seen from a fundamental standpoint any change in behavior or buying patterns you've anticipated? Yes we do have obviously we have a big business in Russia and Eastern Europe.
We have not seen anything material as yet.
We're keeping a close eye on it to be candid with you Kartik.
If there's any great news about that is an impact that part of the world for us is less profitability less gross margins than others but we'll keep you guys updated but right now it's immaterial.
And then just one final question.
Bill if you look at the Digital Insight business and since that business has changed hands a couple of times have you seen any change in customer behavior when it comes to renewals are they asking for shorter renewals or maybe on the other hand longer renewals or longer terms as their contracts come up? No we're not not right now.
I would say that has been a – we've seen a tangible positive out of the move to NCR in terms of this business.
Now both in terms of our employees who feel like they are working for a financial services technology company focused on omni-channel and digital banking as a platform within the context of that solution and customers who feel like NCR can provide now a total end to end solution in that space.
So the good news about this acquisition is both internally and externally people feel good about us owning the asset.
In terms of customer buying behavior and what we're seeing there no change that I can speak to.
John any comments? Not yet because it's too early.
We wanted to really this year to begin to test where we would apply the revenue synergies first within their customer base and their traditional customers within ours that's number one.
And number two what were the buying behavior and buying cycle has been and what can incent them.
Remember the incentive on the revenue synergy line that we contemplate the investment basis in this case is the potential to bundle offers meaning having the capability to sell transformation through a bank which includes a little bit of branch perhaps an upgrade to deposit automation along with [indiscernible] that Digital Insight traditionally sold in the marketplace because today those buying decisions are independent buying decisions but from the same buyer to the first time we have an opportunity to put them together to that buyer and we think that there's value in that.
But we don't know enough yet to say anything more than buying behavior has been consistent it's not [indiscernible] the same and the contract terms and conditions themselves have been about the same.
And the metrics Kartik I look at is orders for these small and medium-sized banks that we call them national banks here at NCR and that order flow in Q1 was up 49% year on year and I would say that probably – we know for a fact call it 2 million to 5 million of those orders were from customers buying ATMs that were DI customers now buying from NCR as opposed to a competitor we're not the first time.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question will come from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Just two quick ones.
First Retalix would not have fully anniversaried until February of this year so what was the incremental revenue and NPOI contribution from that in the quarter? Matt that we can't give you this quarter and the reason why we can't is candidly they are fully integrated now and we could not break out what was Retalix versus NCR if we tried.
There's been too much confusion between what solutions we're selling internally to customers that are now overlapping with NCR.
So I can tell you that Retalix itself R10 had a great quarter the solution R10 as a software solution had a great quarter well above our expectations.
But I can't tell you how Retalix in total did any longer.
Maybe a different way of looking at it how would you characterize the Retalix funnel pipeline backlog of – what's the best way I guess to look at it? Matt I would say that Retalix is performing well above the organic for NCR.
And then with respect to Hospitality we've been hearing pretty consistently since you purchased Radiant that you've been investing in the business every quarter very heavily it's been a consistent drag on margins and then you really had a big drop this quarter.
You just took your revenue guidance down by a third.
Are these investments that you've been making the last two years not coming through at the rate you would have thought or what's going on there? I see a real disconnect there.
I think they have come through.
We have delivered wonderful results as a result of making those investments.
We have [indiscernible] in a business of this size it's not a big business call it $700 million in revenue where we're over-investing in one period and then look to reap the benefits and then investment in others.
But we have to make investments in international expansion in that space and that can back-sting for us of growth.
It's not going to be to [indiscernible] U.S.
SMB and direct accounts.
We have to have success internationally and invest to do so.
So while I think the investments we have made have paid dividends the last [indiscernible] in terms of growth I think they will in the future as well but I would not be concerned if you think that it's unsustainable.
I think Bill used the word and I probably should again that's the commitment we have seen is an anomaly of time and expense to revenue it is not anything to spend our [indiscernible] that we're concerned about it.
If it was we'd be taking very different actions.
Got you.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible].
I know you guys have fairly owned Digital Insight for a quarter now but I was wondering if you could help us understand maybe the year-over-year metrics on the business and specifically the revenue numbers of the operating income that you've given how does that look year-over-year because the mobile user number certainly I think when you bought it it was 4.8 million and it's already 5.5 million so that's pretty strong quarter over quarter growth? I'll take it.
I don't think we have the pro forma view.
They were on a different fiscal year than we were.
So we don't have the pro forma view but we'll do our best to get that back to you if we can pull it together.
I would say though that we characterize Q1 for DI as a really good start and a lot has gone on in that business.
We were pleased with revenue growth and very pleased with margins and profit growth but on the back of user growth and the areas that count like mobile.
So for us I couldn't be more pleased with the start of that marriage.
We'll try to probably get it off as best we can the pro forma for you but I think you'll find it's pretty good year-over-year compare.
And of this user growth are you able to give us a breakdown of how much are new wins versus organic growth of current customers? The majority of the 83% year-over-year growth was expanded user base user expanded features and functionality of the existing user base as I mentioned earlier but when we put together that bridge that you're asking for we'd be able to break that out.
There is absolutely organic growth but we're very pleased with [indiscernible].
And very candidly we want to have the kind of organic growth we want or that we will be pleased with until we get the sales force built and up and running.
It's a small – what we acquired was a relatively small sales force of about 15 people direct and so we need to substantially increase the size of that sales force and then when we do I think sales cycle in that business is about 12 to 18 months in that range so I expect that we'll begin to see traction on those investments come 2016.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session for today and at this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Bill for any further remarks or closing.
Thank you all for attending today and we look forward to reporting back to you in July.
Have a great evening.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the NCR Corporation Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Tracy Krumme Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining our second quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me on the call today are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Bruno Executive Vice President; Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer; and Andy Heyman Senior Vice President and President of Financial Services who will be available for the Q&amp;A session.
Our presentations and discussions today includes forecasts and other information that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and in our periodic filings with the SEC including our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will be referring to presentation materials posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to our reported and forecasted GAAP results and other information concerning such measures are included in the presentation materials and our earnings release and they're also available on the Investors section of NCR's website.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of July 29 2014 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this call whether as a result of new information or future events.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Tracy and thanks everyone for joining us today.
From my perspective our second quarter results are as I expected and continue to demonstrate the potential of the new NCR.
We're at the halfway point of the year and we feel good about the steady progress we have made transforming our revenue streams and building on our global leadership in the emerging consumer transaction technologies segment.
We had a solid quarter overall which you can see in our financial highlights.
Let's begin by taking a look at those on Slide #3.
Second quarter revenue was up 8% year-on-year and up 9% on a constant currency basis.
Our revenue growth included expansion of our software and SaaS revenues and a 21% increase in our recurring revenues which now makes up 42% of total revenues.
As a quick reminder we define recurring revenue as hardware maintenance software maintenance and SaaS.
Increasing our recurring revenue has been an area of strategic focus at NCR and I'm pleased with what we have accomplished so far in 2014.
We have spent the last several years executing a transformation to a hardware-enabled software-driven business model that delivers innovation to our customers and provides a life cycle services capability to be a leading global services organization.
This ongoing reinvention of our company places NCR in a far more strategic vendor position with our customers while continuing to enhance our margins.
Operational gross margin finished at 30% up 110 basis points year-on-year.
I want to note that our second quarter margin performance marks a historic milestone for NCR as it is the first time we have achieved 30% operational gross margin.
It took a lot of hard work by the entire NCR team to get here.
And while we are proud of the accomplishment we are focused on continuing to drive operational gross margin closer to 35% over the next several years.
Our performance in the second quarter was driven by increased software and SaaS revenues particularly in Financial Services including Digital Insight.
It was also driven by solid organic software growth which I will talk about more so on the next slide.
Second quarter NPOI was $210 million representing year-over-year growth of 15%.
For the second straight quarter we achieved record NPOI margin which reached 12.7% during Q2.
This follows an all-time high Q1 NPOI margin of 10.2%.
We also generated good improvement in free cash flow primarily due to higher net income and improvements in working capital.
Bob will give you more color on this during his remarks.
As you know growing our software and SaaS revenues is a key element of our long-term strategy.
Our progress in transforming to a software-driven company is demonstrated on the next slide.
You can see that total software-related revenue were up 42% during the quarter to $446 million while our SaaS revenues increased 247% to $125 million.
While Digital Insight was a key contributor to our performance I think it's important to note the mid-teens organic growth in both software and SaaS revenues that we generated in Q2.
Overall we feel good about our progress here through the first half of the year and we are on track to achieve our full year software revenue target of approximately $1.8 billion.
That number represents 40% to 44% year-on-year growth in software revenues.
If you look at this excluding Digital Insight we expect to generate organic software revenue growth of 11% to 16% year-over-year.
Our software growth which has shown solid momentum as we continue to move up the value chain can become the core of our customers' business operations.
The impact of shifting our business mix to software is having a clear impact on our margin profile which you can see on the next slide.
This chart provides a historical view of the impact that our transformation is having on our margins.
It's clear that our increased focus on higher-margin solutions such as software including SaaS and mobile and professional services is driving consistent operational gross margin expansion.
This is evidenced by the approximate 900 basis point improvement that we expect in gross margins this year compared to 2009.
So the impact that our transition towards software and SaaS is having on margins is clearly visible.
We have been moving in this direction for some time now and I'd like to take a few minutes to talk about how we got here as well as how we are focused on best positioning NCR for the future.
Let's move to the next slide.
Over the past 9 years we have established a successful track record of addressing legacy issues executing strategic initiatives all of which have resulted in consistent top line growth expanded margins and higher cash flow not to mention market share gains and increased strategic relevance with our customers.
As you know we have always worked hard on this balance given our passion to reinvent NCR.
In particular over the last 5 years of that timeframe we have been focused on organic and inorganic M&amp;A to fundamentally transform NCR from a hardware company to a solutions company who is software-driven and hardware-enabled.
As a result of our efforts we are a vastly different company today yet current resource allocation is not adequately aligned to the new NCR.
For example we still have an imbalance of resources focused on commodity lower-growth solutions.
Today we are announcing a restructuring program that is designed to strategically reallocate our resources to our highest-growth highest-margin opportunities aligning resources more effectively with the realities of our new revenue streams.
This is the right time for NCR to address this issue now that we have the operational assets we need for our future and have had adequate time to assess the impact of our acquisition as well as organic investment.
The next slide offers some specifics about our plan.
This strategic reallocation of resources will result in the reduction of approximately 1 800 full-time positions with a potential add-back of up to 900 of those positions over the next 12 to 24 months.
This all adds up to approximately a net 3% reduction in total headcount.
Any add-back will be allocated based on the performance of the company for any individual division.
Add backs will occur in higher-growth higher-margin areas of the business mainly in engineering and sales.
In addition we will be proactively end of life-ing older commodity hardware product lines that are costly to maintain yet provide little to no return; moving commodity services positions to new centers of excellence due to the positive impact of service innovation in the areas of predictive services remote service management and intelligent dispatch.
We'll be rationalizing both hardware and software product lines to eliminate overlap and redundancy.
Lastly we will be reducing layers of management and taking the next step in our organizational evolution and organize around divisions which in turn will improve decision-making increase accountability and strengthen strategic execution.
Over the course of the next 2 years we will incur costs of approximately $150 million to $200 million with a cash impact of $100 million.
This action beyond being strategically sound is also economically compelling.
As a result of this restructuring program NCR will achieve run-rate savings reaching approximately $90 million per year by 2016.
Before I introduce John Bruno I'd like to go off script for a moment and wish John good luck.
John will be leaving NCR at the end of August early September to take on the combined CTO/CIO role at Aon.
John and I have worked together for 15 years 3 different companies on and off in that 15 years.
And in all cases John was always my partner from a strategic point of view and in terms of strategic execution.
He has had a great track record of success with me and I'll miss him but he leaves behind an incredible bench and a job well done.
In John's 5-plus years at NCR he's accomplished a lot.
Think of how far we've come strategically in that 5-year period.
Think of the M&amp;A and strategic alliances he's been involved in here to help execute our transformation and you can understand why we'll miss him.
But we also understand where we are in our journey and wish John good luck.
John? Thank you very much Bill.
And it's been an honor to serve this great company its customers partners employees and shareholders.
It has also been a privilege to work so closely with and learn from such an accomplished Chairman and CEO such as you Bill.
These past 6 years with NCR have been nothing short of an exceptional professional experience for me and one of personal growth that I could not have imagined when I started.
I have a great sense of pride having worked with this leadership team and all that we've accomplished together.
We've executed thoughtful balanced growth strategy to reinvent an iconic corporation and I have great confidence in the strategy technology and the team.
I also have no doubt the momentum will continue into the future and only increase in speed and industry impact as NCR now is the global leader in consumer transaction technology and is a very unique and uniquely positioned hardware-enabled software-driven business.
With that let me turn your attention to Slide 8 so I can give you a sense of how we executed by line of business in Q2.
So I'll begin with a review of Financial Services.
We were pleased with the strong results in the quarter.
Revenue was up 15% year-on-year with margin improvement of 310 basis points.
This was driven primarily by a favorable revenue mix including a higher percentage of software-related revenue up 106% year-on-year.
The core business delivered solid performance as well.
Excluding Digital Insight total revenues were up 4% software-related revenues were up 28% and operating margin improved 140 basis points.
We had strong global core order growth up 14% which was driven by North America and Europe small- and medium-sized banks and software and branch transformation.
Backlog was up 17% entering Q3 due to significant growth in professional services and software solutions.
Looking globally our performance was balanced as we added new customers in Europe including Russia and the Americas.
We added 19 new Interactive Service customers including wins in the North America banking segment as well as 8 customer wins abroad.
Branch transformation revenues increased 46% during the quarter while orders are up 78% year-on-year.
During the second quarter we saw major financial institutions implement NCR Interactive Services.
This includes SunTrust in the U.S.
who went live with Interactive Teller in May and will be the first financial institution to integrate Interactive Banker Internet solution later this fall.
And Banca Popolare di Bari in Italy the first European bank to deploy Interactive Banker.
Current Interactive Service customers are finding success with our solution as evidenced by Ion Bank which expanded its Interactive Teller program this quarter following its initial deployment 2 years ago.
We're focused on driving further adoption of our leading software and omni-channel banking solutions a big part of this strategy as you know is Digital Insight which continues to win customers as well as receive industry recognition for its long-term commitment to customer satisfaction.
I want to turn your attention to Slide 9 and give you an update on the DI acquisition.
I'm going to give you update on both the integration and activities as we execute our strategy.
The addition of Digital Insight to our Financial Services business uniquely positions and differentiates NCR software within the FinTech space.
Customers are interacting with banks of all sizes in an increasing number of ways from traditional to online to mobile.
Digital Insight places NCR at the forefront of omni-channel retail banking and in a strong position to increase our margin and recurring revenue base within Financial Services.
We continue to expect Digital Insight to be slightly accretive to non-GAAP diluted EPS for fiscal year 2014 and $0.15 accretive in fiscal year 2015.
Looking at the second quarter performance highlights revenues were $87 million and we generated $27 million of operating income both in line with our expectations.
We are now 6 months into the integration of Digital Insight and across the board we received positive reception and feedback from both customers as well as the internal Digital Insight team.
This is demonstrated by the 25% year-on-year increase in customer renewals in Q2.
We have also seen a strong increase in mobile active users with 5.7 million total mobile users up 73% from last year.
Turning now to Slide 10 which provides an update on our Retail Solutions segment.
Revenue was down 2% year-on-year which was expected given a tough year-on-year comparison for that business due to the large Wal-Mart self-checkout rollout which concluded in Q2 of last year.
Operating income was down 2% year-on-year which is also in line with expectation.
I do want to point out that the Retail operating margin improved 220 basis points on a sequential basis as we continue to work hard to get that business hitting on all cylinders.
Orders were up 11% in the second quarter driven by both Europe and AMEA and offset in part by challenges we're seeing in North America.
Our backlog continues to be strong up 32%.
Yet as we discussed last quarter the rollout of large orders continues to push revenue to the end of the year and into 2015.
While Retail software-related revenues were up 14% and SaaS was up 8% they were below our internal expectation.
As we transform to a more software-driven business model with larger software deal sizes we are focused on improving linearity within the quarter and execution in the space overall.
Europe continues to perform well with strong revenue and order growth.
We continue to see softness in demand in North America retail market in general yet we continue to maintain our strong position and win competitive deals.
Retail has continued to place high value in enhancing the customer shopping experience at all phases of the shopper's path to purchase.
We are well positioned to be the partner of choice for the strategic priorities that matter to our customers with industry-leading point-of-sale self-checkout and our unified commerce platforms.
Additionally the marketplace is reacting favorable to our Connected Payments offering.
We are seeing strong customer demand for our Retail Solutions including Retalix.
Some of you may have seen the media reports last week regarding our deployment of R10 in the U.S.
at Target.
As a matter of policy NCR does not comment on rumor or speculation or the status of activities with specific customers but we feel it is important to note and have Target's permission to tell you that the stories concerning Target are being reported inaccurately.
We secured a number of customer wins during the quarter for both our point-of-sale and self-checkout solutions.
We remain the clear leader in self-checkout with RBR ranking NCR #1 with a 71% global ship share.
We are expanding our retail presence in China.
In the second quarter we won a new self-checkout pilot at Rainbow Department Stores one of the Top 100 Chain Retailers in China.
We also added an established channel partner Shanghai Anmao which is already leading to new business.
This validates our opportunity in this emerging market.
Moving now to Hospitality which is on Slide 11.
Hospitality revenue was up 8% during quarter driven by solid growth across the Americas and Europe.
Operating income was down 15% year-on-year due to a large software transaction in the prior year period.
The operating margin was significantly higher than Q1 2014 but was lower on a year-over-year basis.
Software-related revenue was down 4%.
SaaS revenue and application sites were up 16% year-over-year.
Important developments in the quarter include further success expanding internationally with new customers in Mexico Australia and New Zealand.
We continue to penetrate the important North American small- and medium-sized business market with 19% revenue growth.
Additionally we had customer wins across a broad number of segments and technologies including our online ordering software being selected by Buffalo Wild Wings our venue management solution deployed at Adelaide Oval and a complete solution of hardware software and services implemented with Pollo Campero.
We also launched a cloud-based point-of-sale solution for North America called Silver Pro Restaurant Edition to meet the needs of a growing segment of the small business restaurant market that is underserved by technology today.
We combined our years of experience in the restaurant industry with the NCR Silver small business platform to create this solution which demonstrates how we can leverage innovative offerings across our different lines of business.
Lastly I'd like to discuss our Emerging Industries business on Slide 12.
Revenue was $85 million up 6% year-on-year with growth driven by a 22% revenue increase in our Telecom and Technology business.
Travel revenues were down in Q2.
Operating income and operating margin was negatively impacted by onboarding costs associated with new managed service contracts in Telecom and Technology and continued investments in small business.
Developments for our Telecom and Technology business include several services and support customer wins.
Our travel business made additional headway in key emerging markets and once again delivered record mobile boarding passes reaching 11 million in June of 2014.
That's up 200% year-on-year.
In small business we continue to invest and build our SaaS-based business model which over time we believe will deliver good results.
We're driving increased adoption of NCR Silver and our customer base grew 32% over last quarter and 276% versus Q2 of 2013.
With that let me turn the call back to Bill to provide summary comments on our second quarter performance and strategic progress overall.
Thank you John.
To wrap up on Slide #13 our Q2 results were in line with our expectations.
We made strong progress with software and SaaS both organic and including Digital Insight which is driving our top line growth and of margin expansion.
We also generated strong improvement in free cash flow generation in the quarter.
At the line of business level we had a great performance in Financial Services.
As expected Retail was challenging.
We continue to work hard to get that business to perform better and we expect to see improved results in the second half of the year.
Hospitality is making incremental progress towards our goals for that business as well.
We are pleased with our acquired businesses and their performance in the quarter particularly Digital Insight which continues to impress.
We have made further integration progress and the feedback from customers and DI employees remains very positive.
As we move forward we're also making sure we've aligned organizationally to further drive our transformation.
The reallocation initiatives we've outlined today will improve our ability to focus on the highest-growth opportunities we have while also generating additional cost structure improvements to continue our strong track record of margin expansion.
These initiatives strengthen our long-term positioning but I also continue to feel good about the near term and that's indicated by our confidence in our 2014 outlook.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bob to give you some more perspective on the financials in the quarter.
Bob? Thank you Bill.
I'll start on Slide 15 which shows our Q2 operational results.
Here you can see the strong revenue growth up 8% as reported and 9% on a constant currency basis.
As Bill mentioned the operational gross margin rate was 30% an all-time high for us driven by more software-related revenue in the mix.
Software-related revenue was up 42% and excluding Digital Insight core software-related revenue was up 15%.
Expenses were slightly higher than prior year at 17.4% of revenue.
NPOI margin was 12.7% which is again at a record high for Q2.
EPS was flat with prior year at $0.68 due to higher interest expense.
The effective tax rate in the quarter was 27% slightly higher than the prior year of 25%.
We were very pleased with the Q2 results as we faced several significant headwinds relative to the prior year results which included a vendor rebate a large software transaction and a significant rollout in our self-checkout business.
The next slide shows our Q2 GAAP results.
As we mentioned in Q1 we've included new pages in the backup section beginning on Slide 30 that does a nice job of bridging the GAAP to non-GAAP results with more details on the adjustments to non-GAAP.
On Slide 17 you can see the revenue split by segment.
Financial Services are up 16% constant currency and excluding Digital Insight up 5% constant currency.
We continue to see orders and backlog grow in Financial especially in North America and branch transformation.
Retail down 2% constant currency was as expected given the difficult compare with the prior year.
Hospitality and Emerging Industries continued with strong growth.
Overall total revenue was up 9% constant currency and the core business excluding Digital Insight was up 3%.
On Slide 18 you can see the operating margin by segment.
Financial services was at 15.2% for the quarter up 310 basis points.
Excluding Digital Insight the core business operating margin was up 140 basis points.
Retail Solutions was flat with the prior year even with a slight decrease in revenue due to more software in the mix and up 220 basis points from Q1.
Hospitality was down due to a large software transaction in the prior year and up 540 basis points from Q1.
Operating margins in Emerging Industries continues to be impacted by onboarding costs associated with managed services contracts and our continued investment in small business.
On a full year basis we expect operating margins to be in line with the guidance provided last quarter.
On Slide 19 we have the supplemental revenue split we began showing last quarter.
You can see the strong growth in SaaS professional services and total software-related revenue.
As I mentioned earlier excluding Digital Insight software-related revenues grew 15%.
Other services which as a reminder includes our traditional break/fix business showed nice growth at 3%.
Hardware revenue in the quarter reflects a similar trend as Q1 as the company continues to focus on growing software and recurring services.
As a reminder of the profitability by revenue stream software excluding professional services is around 60% to 65% and total software-related revenue including professional services is around 50% to 55%.
Hardware is typically between 20% and 25% and other services is around 25%.
These are annual gross margin rates including all corporate allocation.
On Slide 20 you can see free cash flow for the quarter.
Cash provided by operating activities improved by $112 million primarily related to lower discretionary pension contributions and improvements in working capital.
CapEx was higher by $29 million with roughly half of that in software cap.
Discontinued operations was slightly better by $3 million.
On a full year basis our expected free cash flow has been updated for the estimated cash impact of $50 million relating to the restructuring plan Bill discussed earlier.
On Slide 21 you can see our estimated adjusted free cash flow of $420 million to $490 million when you add back nonoperational items including the impact of the restructuring plan.
This is around 85% of non-GAAP net income compared to 80% in the prior year.
On Slide 22 you can see our leverage multiple at the end of Q2 is 3.4x down from 3.7x in Q1.
We still expect to delever quickly and anticipate ending the year at around 3x leverage.
We are reaffirming our full year 2014 and revenue guidance which you will find outlined on Slide 23 and 24.
We have updated our GAAP guidance to reflect the expected charge related to the restructuring plan.
On Slide 25 you will find our Q3 guidance.
We expect NPOI growth of 16% to 22%.
We expect the tax rate to be 28% and other expense including interest expense to be approximately $50 million.
I expect the revenue growth to be slightly higher than the overall growth rate we saw in Q2 with continued strength in Financial and growth in Retail due to strong backlog at the end of Q2.
I expect mid-single-digit growth rates for Hospitality and low-single digits for Emerging.
The final chart reinforces our 2014 goals for the year.
We continue to focus on growing our business driving more software-related and recurring revenue improving our free cash flow and delevering our balance sheet.
The restructuring plan that Bill discussed earlier on the call is in line with this strategy and will position us to accelerate on our highest-growth highest-margin opportunities.
And with that I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Dan Perlin with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question on the restructuring plan.
First of all is this kind of incremental to what you had alluded to in the past? I mean I think you had said in the past you had probably $30 million in '14 and $30 million in '15 that you were looking to take out in Retail and Hospitality so that gets you to $60 million.
And I think there were some duplicative costs on the back end for DI which was another $10 million.
So that's $70 million between the 2 years.
And I'm just wondering are you stretching that out to '16 and getting another $20 million and that's what we're calling the restructuring plan or is there something more to that? Yes let me take the DI question first.
I mean this number does not include the $10 million of duplicate cost at DI.
So again that would be costs incurred this year in '14 that will not be included in '15.
When we talked previously about Retail and Hospitality and the numbers you mentioned Dan this is all included in this restructuring piece.
So think of those numbers as included in this piece.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the idea is for $60 million still and then you've got $30 million now as opposed to $20 million to get you to the out year run rate.
So -- also my understanding was -- who's going to replace John? What's the process for that? I know he was a big part at least of how that plan was to going to get layered in in particular in Retail.
And so his departure is clearly something we've got to focus on.
Yes there's an announcement going out today Dan.
We've hired a new Head of Retail.
His name is Michael Bayer.
He'll be joining us on August 1 so on Monday.
You'll see that press release coming out shortly.
We will be hiring a new CTO.
That's something that is both going to attract internal and external candidates.
John has been essentially our CTO for 5.5 years while he has also played the role of -- on strategy and corporate development for us.
He's role on Retail was for the past quarter in helping us to find a right replacement for him as an interim as well as work on some particular tactical items for that business.
Yes.
And Dan I'm going to be here through August and I'm going to help Michael with his transition and make sure that we have a smooth pass over on the Retail business overall.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then there's 2 other quick clarifications.
I know you don't want to talk specifically about Target and I fully appreciate that but the language is kind of vague in that it's reported inaccurately.
That could be that they used the wrong headcount number as an example in that article which I thought was pretty loose.
Are you suggesting that it's really an inaccurate statement? All I'm telling you is it's an inaccurate statement.
Look see as you can imagine we're bound by contractual issues with regard to speaking about customers.
And I'd love to comment further but I can't.
But I can tell you clearly that article is completely inaccurate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that's fine.
That's what I wanted to find out.
And then just lastly as we think about the third quarter guide and the NPOI number I kind of would have thought margins would have been up a little bit more on a sequential basis.
Is there something else that's kind of eating away at that? Because it seems to imply a pretty significant kind of fourth quarter.
I'll jump off.
Yes in terms of Q3 the growth rate that we're showing from an NPOI perspective is 16% to 22%.
The prior year did include in it an asset sale of around $7 million.
So excluding that the growth rates would have been even higher.
We'll move on and take our next question from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Lots of good stuff here.
But of course the only issue I can see here really is the back-end ramp.
And I guess the question is what visibility do you have into a very strong fourth quarter from an NPOI perspective? I looked over the last few years it's not unprecedented to have 25% 30% sequential growth but it's still a pretty dramatic ramp.
And how much of the risk is there in the Retail segment in particular given that there's been some pushouts there and I imagine another quarter could be pushed out quite easily? Yes Paul our quarter -- really the guidance now for Q3 Q4 has been analyzed in terms of what we believe will convert from what is a record backlog.
The backlog we have today is the biggest we've ever had in dollars and one of the biggest in terms of year-on-year growth.
The NCR total backlog is up 19% year-on-year and that's a fairly sizable backlog.
A good portion of that is Financial up 17% year-on-year.
The rest is Retail.
So what we've done is we've taken a look at what in the backlog will convert in Q3 Q4.
Q4 is a bit more of a ramp but not to your point unprecedented.
And certainly in the years where we've had significant backlog positions like we have now more the norm.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But obviously the risk there is that the sort of the peak deployments for these large Retail projects will coincide with the holiday season won't they? Is it -- and I'm particularly concerned about the Retail back -- the back-end loadedness -- if there is such a word -- of the Retail segment.
Can you just comment upon the 2 big projects in particular and just how much conviction you have around them getting in before the year-end deadline? Well we're actively involved in both Paul.
And it's John Bruno.
You're specifically speaking to self-checkout and I understand your issue with regard to that.
We're actively working our backlog.
As Bill pointed out I mean our backlog is big in Retail as well.
So we're converting off of a strong backlog there.
And some of the Retail backlog is actually kiosk-related backlog that's not specific to Retail front-end lanes.
And the other part which we don't typically talk about in backlog is our software growth.
And we have a number of programs.
And our Retail customers tend to take software in Q4 in preparation for Q1 and then we bring in the license and PS engagements in the quarter in preparation to a fast start [ph].
So I think we've got not only the hardware backlog with self-checkout and some of the kiosks but I also believe we've got a nice ramp on software as well assuming we continue to execute.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My last question is the Hospitality segment has taken a dip in terms of margins.
Can you just revisit that for us and explain to us what has happened there and why those margins will eventually turn back north into the teens if they will? Yes they will.
It's a combination of things Paul.
One of course we discussed on the last call and I think on prior calls which is around the significant investment we're making in Hospitality.
We're investing at twice the rate of revenue growth in terms of expense to revenue.
So that has impacted the margins of that business for the last 2 or 3 quarters.
Secondly we have less software in the mix.
Part of that is just tough compares big contracts we've done in terms of software contracts.
But again that's more lumpy and will come back over time given the front log.
And I'd say thirdly more or less the NCR legacy accounts that have been bolted on to Radiant are somewhat lower margin and again lumpy as well but also that will balance out within the coming 4 quarters.
Research Division</strong> If you don't mind just one follow-up then.
The investment that you're making is it to expand the addressable market? Is it to take it international? Is it to expand the product line? If you can just give us some sense of why there's been this accelerated investment phase? And that's me finished I think.
Yes the answer is yes yes and yes.
We're doing all of the above in terms of expanding internationally in terms of hiring new sales headcount to accomplish that goal expanding engineering and budgets around engineering.
And mobile we did enter mobile.
A lot around our mobile POS and...
The mobile POS side.
And so Paul it's really all as a balanced investment plan for that business.
And that's something that has paid off for us since we've acquired Radiant 3 years ago and it will pay off for us in the future as well.
We'll move next to Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So Bill in light of the MICROS-Oracle deal and the potential for them to be more price competitive how would NCR look to combat lower pricing? Well Meghna first of all let me say that this is not meant to be a cute statement.
We're looking forward to competing in this market against a tough sizable company and one we respect a great deal.
We've never been shy about competing.
But we don't know what exactly is going to occur as a result of this acquisition when it is closed.
So it's difficult to point out what their strategy will be in the marketplace except that we do know that we have a world-class solution the ability to also price differently with different packages and solutions both from a cloud point of view as well as enterprise license point of view.
And we think we can be quite competitive.
We think we have a great set of assets and the ability to be flexible with pricing as well and business models.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then going to the ATM business primarily the Digital Insight.
How should we think about pricing going forward given that the market there is still fragmented with a number of small companies offering an online mobile banking solution? Andy? Yes.
I think on the -- first of all it's a wonderful business that we've acquired.
And as we think about the drivers of the business it's really 2 things: One is the number of end users that use the application and the other one is the average price per user.
It's a pretty simple business.
And as we've -- since we've acquired the business if you think about the average price per user which is your question there's always a general mix of products that have -- some are increasing in average price some are decreasing in average price.
And so the net of it is we've had a really good year in terms of average price per user.
So as we look forward the key for us is -- and we don't like to quote the exact number -- but the key for us is we've been relatively flat this year on pricing which is a very good metric.
It's much better than the old days under prior ownership which is a situation that had 5% to 10% headwinds on average pricing.
So the key for us is to maintain our average pricing and then add new products to add value to our customers where they can really value where the trends are going in the industry so we can help our customers save more money and drive their revenue growth.
So that's how we're thinking about it.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it Andy.
And just a quick one for Bob.
Just want to check if you're still expecting NPOI and EPS at the low end for the year? I didn't see that specific language in the press release.
I just want to clarify there.
Yes really no full year change from what we said last quarter.
And next we'll move to Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you talked about some software deal pushouts.
Were you able to close most of those deals in the second quarter? And how happy are you with the level of close rates now at the end of June? I'm incrementally more pleased Katy but we have work to do.
We did close those transactions that slipped from Q2 to Q -- I'm sorry Q1 to Q2 and then to Q2 to Q3 but we've also had transactions slip from Q2 to Q3.
So as we transition from a go-to-market and sales point of view and learn how to become a more effective efficient software sales organization this will be with us for some time.
A lot of the work we're doing here by the way is education putting the right policies and governance in place internally everything from controllership to legal; and talent bringing on the right talent and team to help move the ball forward.
But this transition this enormous shift in our revenue streams has definitely caused us to be less of an effective sales organization on software deals.
But in Q2 we were a lot better than Q1 I can tell you that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a couple of questions on the restructuring.
Completely understand the shift from hardware to software but you also mentioned some areas of de-emphasis and potentially exiting businesses.
Could you give some additional detail there or examples of areas where you're backing off? Not right now.
But I think it's fair to say that we're doing a fairly deep evaluation of all of our assets.
We routinely as a board look at strategic alternatives.
And as we do certainly opportunities for divestitures come up opportunities for shifts in where we spend our capital come up.
And it would be fair to say that in the process of doing that -- and this is the time of year we really get into that in great detail in terms of strategic planning -- we're looking at all of the above.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally Bob how should we think about the $90 million of cost savings and how much of that flows through to the bottom line as opposed to reinvested in the business? Yes the $90 million will be a run rate that we achieve at the start of 2016.
You can think of roughly half of that at this point helping the bottom line the other half being reinvested back into the business.
And Katy that will be allocated -- any additional investment will be allocated based on performance of the company and the individual divisions.
So something from 0 to $45 million will be reinvested based on performance.
And I just wanted to elaborate a little bit more on Bill's response Katy.
You had also asked about examples around the 4 key initiatives.
So when we mentioned that we were end of life-ing older commodity hardware products and also rationalizing hardware and software product lines -- and maybe I'll take a shot at this with John in terms of specific examples.
Well certainly having acquired 3 big businesses over the last couple of years it's giving us an opportunity in terms of the go-to-market strategy to reduce some of the overlap and the redundancies that exist.
And then frankly on the end of life-ing we have a lot of very old equipment out there that we continue to service.
And we service it and with very little profit to NCR.
So we just have to make some decisions around the end of life-ing of products and also the overlap that exists within our current portfolio.
That's right.
And just to add to Bob's point we had discussed this on previous calls.
This is I would say standard course -- current course and speed.
When we made the acquisitions there were a number of platforms specifically in the retail and the hospitality space then with Retalix that we've been rationalizing.
We've also been doing some things as we've taken some of our manufacturing in-house to get greater absorption in our plants and get higher quality and better efficiency.
So as we do that our hardware engineering teams are consistently looking at ways in which we can consolidate our platforms.
We have done a very very good job of that prior to making the investments we've made in the acquisitions.
And then of course that exploded once again taking those product lines in.
And the last thing we wanted to have was any revenue dis-synergies at the time in which we made the acquisitions to do anything that interfered with our ability to grow.
Now that we've had an opportunity to assess and evaluate that we think we can transition those platforms in a lot more responsible way and not impact the top line.
And so that's what we were careful to.
So we knew we were carrying some excessive cost after making ourselves more efficient and now are going to take the next run.
And this team really I know will do a great job at it because they've done it before.
And we'll move on and take our next question from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just on the DI side can you just tell us what revenues might have been up or some of the financial performance year-over-year? Hey Ian I'll throw this over to Andy but I think you're asking for a year-over-year compare of revenues.
I don't think we have that.
Yes this is Bob.
I'll just chime in.
The previous owners of the business had a different quarter end.
The business changed hands and the business that we acquired looks quite different than what was in place in Q2 of last year.
So we've tried to stay away from kind of quarter-on-quarter growth rates.
But again we're pleased with the $87 million and maybe Andy can shed a little bit of color on that.
Well I spoke earlier about the 2 drivers of the business.
One was the average selling price and other one was number of users.
The number of users we do track monthly.
That's up about 14% year-on-year so a really good number.
If you look back in the history files the last 3 quarters we've been in the mid-teens growth.
In the history of prior owners I can't find a double-digit number.
So really pleased with what the team has done there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I say 14% increase in users 0 pricing and then you've added a bunch of new products and services so probably that might get you closer to 20% or so? That's what I'm thinking here.
The other question would be -- and maybe you'll answer this a little bit differently.
How much lead time do you get from your customers as you release these large rollouts or large projects? How much lead time do you have between when they inform you and when you actually have to deliver? It depends Ian.
Let me break it down for you.
In terms of the -- on hardware it's anywhere from 30 days to 12 months depending upon the size of the order and the implementation program the customer has in place and so on.
Software 12 to 18 months.
They essentially buy software from us.
We recognize some of that upfront.
And then as they add users and implement the total project we take on more and more revenue as we hit milestones along the way.
And services is not in the backlog except for installation services which are tied to hardware.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because I'm just trying to have a sense of -- how much of let's just say the third quarter do you actually know the ship dates on and what portion of the quarter you really understand is -- I don't want to say in the bag -- but is sort of you know exactly what dates those are shipping and what portion of that sort of makes up your guidance or maybe the total amount of revenues in that quarter.
That's really what I was trying to get at.
It's quite substantial Ian.
I mean I think in any given quarter of that backlog we'll convert 40% to 45% even sometimes as high as 50% in Q4 and above at any one point in time.
So it depends.
Q1 is usually the conversion low.
Q4 is always the conversion high.
On the backlog it usually ranges again from 40% -- by the way Ian we've had quarters where 60% of the backlog converts in a quarter.
Almost in all cases that's Q4 but it does ramp throughout the year.
But think about the right number being about 40% to 45% of that backlog we know converts to revenue.
Then there's some sell and bill in a quarter.
A person who buys something and we install it that quarter.
That's a percentage of the revenue.
We kind of know trends and what to expect there.
We have a forecast of that.
Of course we have our recurring revenue which we kind of know coming in to a quarter as well services stats and software maintenance.
We can do a fairly reasonable build on a quarter before we enter it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final question if I could.
I know you're making this transition from hardware to software and you're doing a lot of this restructuring.
I would have thought that maybe CapEx would have come down as well commensurately with sort of the amount of the reduction in capital you might need.
Is that the case or should that be the case? And if that should be the case why isn't that the case? It should be and is the case.
We'll be reducing CapEx this year and next.
Yes I think what you'll see already Ian is we spent more of the full year capital.
We've given guidance of $250 million to $260 million.
We spent more in Q1 and Q2 and we've done a number of projects there.
We invested in mobility in Hospitality.
We opened up a new manufacturing plant in India.
We've invested in a number of process improvements around quote to cash.
So we've ramped Q1 and Q2.
You'll start to see CapEx come down in Q3 and Q4 to hit the full year guidance of $250 million to $260 million and then you'll see a much lower CapEx number next year.
And the only thing I'd add to that Ian would be as a percent of total CapEx software cap will not go down.
So we'll spend less on lower-margin commodity programs in CapEx and more on software development.
Next we'll move to the Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First just to get back to this ramp from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
I mean I went back and looked at the last couple of years.
And even from Q2 to 3 your NPOI is typically flat at the midpoint.
You're up $10 million.
And then from Q3 to Q4 you're typically in the range of say plus $30 million to $48 million.
And now you're looking for NPOI to be up 50% or over $100 million.
I guess I really need help Bill and Bob in terms of understanding how you're actually going to be able to do that.
And I don't know if it's hey there's this x amount of business sitting in our backlog at a range of margin that we think is going to convert.
I mean talk business by business if you can and really sort of dig in a little deeper.
That's just a huge huge ramp.
Yes Matt if you go back and you look at NPOI as a percent of our total year in Q4 think about this year being in the low- to mid-30s in that range.
We've been there a lot.
In 2007 it was about 39% of revenue sort of NPOI in the fourth quarter.
In 2008 it was 32%.
In 2009 38-plus percent.
In '10 about 34%.
In '11 about 36%.
In '12 31%.
And in '13 31%.
So it's not -- it's right about where we would expect it to be given the backlog position we're in.
Remember going into Q3 Q4 last year Matt we had a backlog that was down significantly year-on-year.
So you have to correlate your backlog position in any given year to the kind of NPOI escape velocity you have in Q3 and Q4 Bob? Yes I'll go ahead and go a little differently Matt.
I really think there's 3 drivers.
One is the backlog Bill spoke about.
We'll have a good Q3 in orders and really enter Q4 with strong backlog.
The gross margin dollars in the backlog right now are up about 35%.
So when Bill said they're up 19% overall backlog well the gross margin dollars are up 35%.
So even when you look at the past we've never had this much software in the mix.
We're going to drive about $1.8 billion of software this year.
So those margins have really helped us.
And then frankly speaking the restructuring that I mentioned will also have benefits in Q4 in terms of lowering the expense structure.
So those 3 things the heavy backlog the margins more software and the -- taking expenses down in Q4 will help a lot and get us to where we need to be.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that color.
Just one follow-up.
I saw an announcement today that Scopus was announcing that IBM is taking over their service from Bradesco.
And I guess I was a little surprised given the breadth and depth of your relationship with Bradesco that it's IBM kind of doing that.
Can you comment on that? Yes this is Andy.
We're very close with Bradesco among others in Brazil with our relationship.
Our history in Brazil has largely been around the solutions we sell and less around the kind of scale that a financial institution the size of Bradesco would look to for the kind of outsourcing that they have typically done with Scopus.
You're talking about thousands of employees sitting in Brazil.
They really -- I'm not going to tell you what Bradesco says.
You'd have to -- they'd have to comment.
But from our perspective we were well aware of the idea that this was a possibility and they're not the only one it's a possibility with if you're following the trends in Brazil.
And so it was no surprise.
The decision that they made is one we're very supportive of.
We'll work we'll continue to help them through this transition and work and make sure that we're providing the proper service both to IBM and to Bradesco in the transition.
Next we'll move to Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Just a big-picture question first of all.
As the company becomes a larger software company do you think this increases the volatility for the quarter especially revenue and operating income as we move forward? Yes and no Kartik.
No from the perspective that the recurring revenue stream of SaaS software license maintenance and the like are more predictable for us.
And we're working hard to increase the percent of our revenue that is essentially recurring.
So that becomes -- provides greater predictability.
And that by the way as you'll see us continue to work on to drive that percentage up.
The yes part of that question is when you have sell and bill software transactions it gets back to Katy's question and my answer to her.
As we transition the sales force to being more software sales capable you could see transactions 1 2 3 5 or so slip on you quarter-to-quarter.
Now you work hard incrementally to reduce that volatility but that volatility is far less than you might expect.
You're talking about maybe $10 million to $15 million a quarter in profit that could slip on you.
As we get larger it becomes lesser of an issue.
And as we transform and train and build out the sales force it becomes a nonissue.
And then just Bill on the ATM side any impact on the business from all the geopolitical issues that are going on in Eastern Europe? Yes I'll make a comment and then Andy will give you his point of view.
The short answer is yes.
I think the good news is in the context of Andy's performance here he has withstood some headwinds with regard to headwinds in Russia as well as in smaller countries but equally important to us like Argentina and the Middle East.
But that's been with us a quarter or 2 now.
We've absorbed that impact.
I do expect at some point those businesses to come back.
They are not dead by any means.
We're still driving a good business in those markets but they're not nearly as frosty as they were Andy? Well I would just say a couple of things in addition to that.
First of all we have a wonderfully diversified business from a global perspective.
And in some of the -- when you look at what's going on in Eastern Europe right now the kind of materiality that it has we have something like that happening almost every year.
And you expect that with a business as diversified as NCR's.
And we build all of that into our guidance.
We build all of that into our plans in terms of contingencies.
And when it happens in a region that has such pricing pressures as the area you're talking about the impact to the NPOI is de minimis.
And next we have Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> As you pointed it out you've done a lot of cost cutting and become a lot more efficient over the last 8 9 years.
And you already have higher than your peers in terms of margin sometime significantly higher than your peers in terms of margins.
Where is the -- you've talked about some of the opportunities but how hard is it going to be to realize savings beyond that? And where do you start putting your benchmarks since you're higher than your peers on most of those margin metrics? Yes we have no shortage of opportunities to become more productive and more efficient Gil.
And we have an internal goal every year of driving about 5% productivity across the board.
That by the way will never end for my team.
And we believe we can definitely achieve that over the long term.
The restructuring program is a bit more focused on strategically reallocating resources versus cost cutting around productivity and efficiency.
We have that goal.
We drive that program continuing to drive that program as well but we have still I'd say relatively speaking low-hanging fruit for many years to come.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then what -- roughly what proportion of your Europe revenue comes from Central and Eastern Europe? Roughly roughly I would say Bob's giving me 4% 3.5%.
Total revenue.
Total revenue.
3% or 4%? We're getting that right now.
Gil was that your last question? We'll get you an answer to that.
Research Division</strong> Yes it is.
Okay.
We'll get you an answer.
I think I'll be right Gil.
Research Division</strong> 3.5% to 4% of overall revenue? Yes I think -- call it around $200 million to $250 million a year of revenue for Eastern Europe.
We'll take the last question from Jim Schneider with Goldman Sachs.
This is [indiscernible] for Jim Schneider.
On 2015 guidance can you provide any update in light of the weakness in the Retail segment and also the new restructuring plans which you have released? On the Retail segment for 2015 obviously the backlog is improving.
I had made the comment that for Q3 we should see improved growth.
So again we should go into the year with stronger backlog from a Retail perspective.
And what was the second half of the question? I meant on the full year guidance for 2015 guidance given the impacts from the Retail segment and also the restructuring plans does that change at all? No change and really what we have said sitting here today we feel good about 2015.
And certainly with the reallocation plan that we mentioned which we feel good about both the gross margin rate improvement and the expense structure.
Just one additional one from my end.
On Digital Insight you're talking in 30% margins and also you plan to invest more on sales and marketing.
What are more sustainable margins for this business? Yes this is Andy.
I think the margins that we're realizing today feel pretty comfortable for the long haul.
I think there's a couple of drivers of improvement over time related to what I would think of as a world-class hosting center which we're putting in place.
And the second one would be as we drive more innovation the attach rate will drive better pricing per user and we should see some good flow-through there.
So I would expect that to be able to pick it up.
We're not going to pick up 1 000 basis points but it will be more than 100 basis points as well.
So I think it will settle in higher than where you're seeing it today.
Well let me thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking to you again in October.
All right everyone that does conclude our conference call for today.
We do thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the NCR Corp.
Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Tracy Krumme Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining our third quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me on the call today and offering opening remarks are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally available on the call today for Q&amp;A are Andy Heyman Senior Vice President and President Financial Services; Michael Bayer Senior Vice President and President Retail Solutions; and Paul Langenbahn Senior Vice President and President Hospitality.
Our presentations and discussions today include forecasts and statements that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and in our periodic filings with the SEC including our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will be referring to presentation materials posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures through their most directly comparable GAAP measures and other information concerning such measures are included in the presentation materials and our earnings release.
These are also available on the Investors section of NCR's website.
A replay of the call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
For those listening to the replay please keep in mind that the information discussed is as of October 23 2014 and NCR assumes no obligation to update or revise the information included in this call whether as a result of new information or future events.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Tracy and thank you all for joining us today.
It is fair to say I don't like getting or giving negative surprises.
We are working hard to do what we need to do to make sure that this does not happen again.
Our disappointing Q3 results and the necessity to reduce 2014 guidance which we had preannounced was driven by a worsening retail environment FX headwinds and concerning macroeconomic indicators.
As you will see during today's presentation we were unable to withstand the sharp declines in orders revenue and profit we experienced in retail during Q3.
While I do not want to oversimplify Q3 results or 2014 guidance it is very much a retail story combined with FX to a lesser degree.
All of our other businesses performed largely as expected in Q3 with Financial Services continuing to sustain revenue growth and margin expansion momentum much of it organic.
Financial Services has a healthy legacy backlog entering Q4.
I would also note that Digital Insight had another strong quarter.
Before we dive into the overall results for the quarter let me give you more details about what happened in Retail Solutions on Slide 3 and the actions we're taking to address the situation.
Obviously results were disappointing and below our expectations with revenue decreasing 1% year-over-year operating margin decreasing 520 basis points year-over-year and orders down 27%.
Backlog was up 9% but further delays in solution rollouts were causing longer revenue conversion times.
Software-related revenue increased 1% which was also again disappointing.
As we transform to a more software-driven business model with larger software deal sizes we are focused on improving linearity within the quarter and execution in the space overall.
The primary driver for bringing down our guidance was weaker performance in September.
Order decline was higher than expected and the backlog rolled out more slowly.
This was driven by 3 factors.
First market conditions within the retail industry worsened significantly in the quarter evidenced by weak same-store sales comps and financial results.
This resulted in our retail customers spending more consciously and further delaying solution rollouts.
Second we saw our customer shift their spending priorities towards addressing increasing data security concerns.
Third our performance was impacted by lower software results due to consolidation on the retailers.
All of these factors impacted Retail Solutions operating income which was down to $24 million in the quarter and impacted our guidance for the remainder of 2014.
While some of these issues were beyond our control we also had execution issues that were unacceptable and we have taken steps to address them.
We have put in place new leadership throughout our division including our newly appointed SVP and President of Retail Solutions Michael Bayer.
Michael has organized this division more effectively to enable us to utilize our restructuring program to allocate resources to opportunities within the highest growth and margin potential.
So within our restructuring plan if conditions don't improve we have the ability to further reduce costs but we will be in a better position to do so based on the changes we have made.
Now let's get into the overall numbers.
Go to Slide #4.
Revenues were up 9% in the third quarter year-over-year and up 10% on a constant currency basis.
This was in line with the commentary we gave on our 2Q call.
Revenue growth was driven by increased software-related revenue and a strong quarter in Financial Services.
As many of you know growing our software-related revenue has been a focus for many years and we continue to make progress on that front.
Operational gross margin finished at 28.9% compared to 28.6% in the third quarter of last year.
NPOI was $204 million up 10%.
This was below our guidance with the variance due predominantly to weaker performance in Retail Solutions and FX.
We generated improved free cash flow during the quarter.
Free cash flow in Q3 was $133 million compared to negative free cash flow of $66 million last year.
This was due to improvements in working capital lower CapEx and the $93 million Fox River recovery.
Excluding Fox River free cash flow was up $105 million year-over-year and Bob will discuss free cash flow in more detail during his remarks.
Turning now to Slide #5 which provides some details on our software-related revenue growth.
Software revenues reached $430 million in Q3 up 34% year-on-year.
A key driver of our growth was Digital Insight which as many of you recall we acquired earlier this year to expand our software capabilities and offerings within Financial Services.
On an organic basis our software growth was 7%.
As you can see on the right side of the chart software revenue guidance is down from previous guidance due primarily to Retail.
While we were disappointed to reduce our goal for the year it does translate to 34% to 36% annual software revenue growth which is a solid accomplishment and demonstrates the success we were having transforming into a hardware-driven software-enabled business model.
On an organic basis we expect software revenue growth from 8% to 10%.
I'm on to Slide #6.
I won't spend much time on this slide since this is a slide you are familiar with.
We have updated this slide to reflect our new guidance and you will see that 26% of our revenue comes from software which compares to 16% just 2 years ago.
You can see from year-to-year the impact our transformation has had on our margin profile.
We now expect to finish this year at around 29.5% operational gross margin which is less than previously expected but a 750 basis point increase over 2009.
Turning to Slide #7.
We continue to make progress with regard to legacy issues.
In the spirit of building a great sustainable technology company out of the assets of the old NCR we have always had a disciplined focus on legacy issues and growth initiatives.
Q3 was a solid and important quarter when it comes to legacy issues.
There were 2 areas of important progress Fox River and pension.
The progress NCR made with regards to Fox River does more than just reduce enterprise risks it also may have a meaningful impact to our ongoing free cash flow.
As for our long-term pension strategy our goals have always been clear: reduce underfunded liability hence volatility; reduce the overall pension liability; reduce the number of planned purchases [indiscernible] costs and improve cash flow.
The progress we have made in Q3 accomplishes several of these goals.
We had 2 wins in September as it relates to Fox River.
First we had the favorable rulings in court that overturned not only the decisions holding us 100% liable but also the injunction that required us to do the cleanup work.
We believe we have done more than our fair share of the work at Fox River and it is now time for others to participate in the cleanup and to reimburse us for costs saved in excess of our share.
Second we were pleased to collect $93 million against our API Fox obligation.
This sum was against Fox River costs that NCR has incurred since April 2012.
The Fox River reserve decreased from $95 million at end of Q2 to $57 million at the end of Q3 with more than half of that decrease due to the favorable court decisions.
Additionally during the quarter as for the pension Phase 3 we were successful with our U.S.
retiree lump-sum offer.
This initiative reduces enterprise risk and takes nearly $800 million of liability out of the plan.
I will now turn the call over to Bob to further discuss our financial results.
Bob? Thank you Bill.
I'll start on Slide 8 which shows our Q3 operational results.
Here you can see the revenue growth up 9% as reported and 10% on a constant currency basis.
As Bill mentioned the operational gross margin rate was 28.9% driven by more software-related revenue in the mix.
Software-related revenue was up 34% and excluding Digital Insight core software-related revenue was up 7%.
Expenses were slightly higher than prior year at 68.5% of revenue.
NPOI margin was 12.4%.
EPS was $0.67 down as compared to prior year due to higher interest expense and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations.
The effective tax rate in the quarter was 22% lower than our guidance of 28% due to a favorable IRS settlement.
Fluctuations in foreign currency negatively impacted Q3 results by approximately $14 million which roughly half in NPOI and half in other income and expense.
The next slide shows our Q3 GAAP results which include the impact of the restructuring plan announced in July.
The Q3 charge was $130 million in total with $65 million related to severance $55 million of inventory charges and $10 million of other restructuring related costs.
The inventory charges are related to product lines which we are end-of-life-ing sooner than expected and rationalizing the product portfolio away from those that are less profitable.
The non-GAAP reconciliation on Slide 27 includes additional details on the $130 million charge.
On Slides 10 and 11 you can see the revenue and operating margin by segment.
Now we will go into more detail on the third quarter result.
On Slide 12 you will see our Financial Services update.
The team continued to deliver strong results.
Revenue increased 17% 5% coming from the core with the remainder coming from DI.
Operating profit grew 55% with half coming from the core and the remainder from Digital Insight.
Core margin expansion was driven by software PS growth and increased penetration in the U.S.
community financial institutions space.
It was also a good quarter for order and backlog growth which is a good indicator for our future growth.
Excluding Digital Insight global core order growth was up 7% driven by North America Europe Southeast Asia and Middle East/Africa.
Drivers of regional success include demand from community financial institutions and software innovation as retail banks continue to transform their networks.
Our core continued to perform well as revenues increased by 5%.
Software-related revenues were up 20% and operating profit increased 26%.
Backlog was up 14% driven by significant growth in software solutions and professional services.
During the quarter we won new enterprise software deals including cash management wins in Brazil and Europe and mobile deposit capture wins in North America.
Our leadership in branch transformation and interactive service solutions expanded in the quarter.
We signed over a dozen new customers in North America the Middle East and Europe all focused on revamping their P&amp;L.
Branch transformation orders were up 90% year-over-year while revenues were up 125%.
Looking at Digital Insight's third quarter results revenues were $93 million and operating income was $27 million ahead of expectations.
Our integration plan is on track and our cross-selling program is delivering great results.
Customer renewals are up 20% year-to-date while our mobile active users finished the quarter at $6.4 million up 39%.
These are both records relative to the recent history of this business.
In summary Financial Services delivered great results.
We believe the combination of NCR and Digital Insight creates a great platform for our customers.
We've already covered Retail so now let's discuss Hospitality.
Hospitality revenues increased 4% to $168 million.
Our revenue growth was driven primarily by gains in North America and Europe.
Software revenues were down 2% while SaaS revenues and application sites both increased 21%.
Operating margin performance of 16.1% was flat year-over-year yet up 260 basis points over the prior quarter.
During the quarter we added customers across a broad set of solutions including venue management restaurant operations and consumer engagement solution.
We also made additional progress expanding our international footprint with multiple wins in the important Brazilian market as well as further expansion into Singapore.
In North America we demonstrated further success advancing our SMB market strategy with 13% year-over-year revenue growth as well as expansion of our customer base.
We are also enabling integration of consumer mobile payment application through point-of-sale and mobile commerce channel.
Looking at our Emerging Industries business on Slide 14 we were disappointed with the results.
Revenues were $91 million up 6% year-over-year.
Telecoms and tech revenues which make up approximately 2/3 of this business increased 14% during the quarter.
Travel revenues were down 23%.
Operating income and operating margin continued to be negatively impacted by onboarding costs associated with new managed service contracts in our telecoms and tech business as well as further investments made in our small business offerings.
On Slide 15 you can see the strong growth in SaaS professional services and total software-related revenue.
As I mentioned earlier excluding DI software-related revenues grew 7%; other services which as a reminder includes our traditional break/fix business showed growth at 1%; and hardware revenue was up 4%.
On Slide 16 you can see free cash flow for the quarter.
Cash provided by operating activities improved by $97 million primarily related to improvements in working capital.
CapEx was lower by $8 million due to lower PP&amp;E spend partially offset by higher spend on capped software.
Discontinued operations was better by $93 million due to a recovery from the Fox River environmental-related matter.
Free cash flow for Q3 year-to-date was $84 million compared to free cash used of $110 million in the prior year-to-date period.
We are making progress in improving the linearity of free cash flow which was one of our goals at the beginning of the year.
On Slide 17 you can see our estimated adjusted free cash flow of $350 million to $415 million when you add back nonoperational items including the impact of the restructuring plan.
This is around 80% of non-GAAP net income which is lower than our previous guidance of around 85%.
We had previously assumed that we would collect $45 million of the Fox receivable in 2014 that was in our financial statement.
So collecting $93 million provided around $48 million upside to our free cash flow forecast.
By lowering our forecast by $25 million we effectively drop free cash flow by $73 million.
We are disappointed by this reduction but it is in line with our drop in NPOI guidance.
Our working capital and CapEx performance in the quarter was solid.
We will continue to work hard to maximize free cash flow towards our goal of 100% of adjusted net income.
A number of actions that we have taken will provide a bridge to higher free cash flow in 2015.
Our CapEx will be lower by approximately 10%.
Our Fox River forecast is expected to be lower than the normalized run rate of $40 million.
Our pension contributions and M&amp;A integration costs will be reduced as well.
We will provide free cash flow guidance as part of our February call but I am optimistic that we will continue to drive higher free cash flow as a result of the actions that we have undertaken this year.
On Slide 18 you could see our leverage multiple at the end of Q3 is 3.3x down from 3.7x in Q1.
We still expect to delever quickly and anticipate ending the year at around 3.2x leverage.
Additionally both S&amp;P and Moody's have reaffirmed our credit ratings this week.
On Slide 19 we give our update of full year 2014 guidance which is consistent with the announcement on October 20 2014.
On Slide 20 we have updated our revenue guidance by line of business.
Overall Financial continues to show strength partially offset by FX headwinds and Retail is in line with the challenges facing that business.
Hospitality revenue is slightly lower than expected.
The old Radiant business continues to drive good revenue growth with an improved mix of software-related revenue.
But the NCR legacy quick service business is facing challenging market dynamics.
Emerging Industries is lower primarily due to our more selective approach with the managed service business in telecom and tech as well as travel.
On Slide 21 you will find our Q4 guidance.
We expect NPOI growth to be at 9% to 18%.
We expect the tax rate to be 30% which is included in the 25% full year guidance; and other expense including interest expense to be approximately $55 million.
Our restructuring plan is on track and we are looking to accelerate actions where possible.
And now I'll turn it over to Bill for his closing comments on the quarter.
Thanks Bob.
I'm on Slide #22.
Clearly these are not the results we expected or with which we believe we are capable of delivering.
We are focused on driving shareholder value and are working with a sense of urgency to address the issues we saw in Q3.
In addition we continue to make good progress on the reinvention path overall successfully growing our software-related revenues as well as continuing to be at the forefront of consumer transaction technologies.
Financial Services continued to deliver solid organic performance and Digital Insight has been integrated successfully and is performing ahead of expectations.
Customer interest in our solutions and software offerings remained high and we're having success with our synergies and cross-selling program.
In Hospitality we continue to execute our strategy and are expanding both our international and SMB footprints.
From a free cash flow perspective we had significant improvement year-over-year but obviously we are focused on better results going forward.
To that end the restructuring plan that we've shared with you last quarter is underway and on track.
With that let's open up the line for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I had a few questions in retail in particular.
So in last quarter's results you had a backlog of 32% and I thought we had visibility although you talked about pushing off some more still.
I'm wondering what is it exactly that you're defining as your backlog these days.
And really more specifically were there customer losses that we need to be aware of either large clients or a series of smaller ones? And were they related to any of these product sunsettings as well? Thanks Dan.
Yes let me answer both of your questions.
Firstly remember our backlog that we report is really the legacy NCR backlog.
It's not Radiant Technologies or -- they are now in Retail or Retalix.
So it's mainly a focus on understanding our organic growth and what could transpire as a result of conversion of that backlog.
So the issue in Q3 by the way in terms of backlog was not that it did not convert the issue was lower order growth which did not allow us to show that backlog going into Q4 and Q3.
So that's part one.
And part two question was -- I missed that.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question was around the severity of the decline would indicate -- and the timing of how quickly you guys had to reverse course suggest that there's client losses in the quarter.
And so I figure I would just ask you that directly either large clients or a series of small clients that would have resulted in this.
Yes I'll answer the first part and then Michael can chime in.
But let me say that what ended up happening was in September we began to see these issues more acutely.
I think we've described this before but about 40% to 50% of our solutions orders and revenue flow through in the third month of a quarter and are forecasted in that month.
And so we ended up starting to see this occur kind of early to mid-September.
And the issues were not losses at least that we are aware of.
And we're fairly confident these are not losses to the competition but rather a series of issues that our customers are facing where they're either delaying the order to Q4 or beyond canceling for now and moving on to thinking through when they want to actually spend the capital for the project or issues where they actually move the capital from one project to more of a data privacy-focused product during the quarter given the numerous other breaches that occurred in Q3.
Michael did you want to comment? Yes Bill.
I'd like to add to what Bill outlined with a clear statement that there was not a series of losses neither one big loss or big losses we should make you aware of.
We've been hit by surprise by some M&amp;A activities of our customers which delayed some of the projects which were indicated to close or to be awarded in September time frame restructuring transformational projects and a couple of our big clients being under severe pressure in their own performance on the stock market.
All of that led unfortunately to a handful of bigger moves which made us to restate the Retail performance from a revenue and a margin point of view.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just sneak one more in.
The -- so the shortfall in the quarter you lowered the software guidance and that accounted for about 43% or 44% of the overall revenue reduction.
You're pointing that it sounds like to Retail and Retalix to me is kind of the biggest component of software in that division.
But given the size of that shortfall $75 million to $100 million I mean that would be an enormous cut to Retalix.
And so can you just help us reconcile how we should be thinking about where that software loss was coming from? And are these orders that are pushed off are they in self-checkout or are they in your legacy business? First on the software piece.
Interestingly Dan most of these are unattached NCR software deals not Retalix.
Retalix actually had a good quarter in terms of orders.
The challenges we have on Retalix are not orders or acquiring business.
It's more so aligned with the costs of driving many of the projects we have underway.
So we've not -- where we've not done a good job is in particular is in managing the professional services costs associated with many of these large rollouts.
Something we have to do a better job of.
It's not demand.
It's more so the demand associated with the core legacy NCR software platforms.
Michael did you want to take any more of that? Yes.
When we talk about some substantial moves related to the reasons I've outlined before they had big software portions associated to legacy solutions.
So in both sides in the self-checkout as well as in the POS some big rollouts have been moved due to the market conditions M&amp;A activities and restructuring activities of a handful of really big clients of ours.
Yes the one -- Dan I'd say one more thing.
There was one very significant self-checkout rollout we did expect that was publicly announced to start now in 2015 but we did expect to start in 2014.
So there was one significant movement both out of the quarter and out of the year.
Our next question comes from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So just kind of focusing on Retail a bit longer.
There's a lot of changes taking place over and above the weak environment.
You've got Amazon sort of changing the rules and causing many of the bricks-and-mortar guys to think about their online strategy.
You've got the data breaches.
You've also got some really radical changes to the point-of-sales payment systems whether it's Apple Pay or NFC in general or EMV or whatever.
To what extent do think you're actually at the table in these discussions? Or are you sort of once removed from it? And is that one of the reasons why you are not -- gained the visibility into what's about to happen? Well where we are at the table Paul which is the place we've designed our company to be is at the table to address omni-commerce and the software to enable omni-commerce capability.
I would say going into 2015 and beyond whatever report you read or customers you speak with that's a top of mind if not top priority going forward.
No question that in 2014 the continuing and excessive number of security breaches our customers have had to deal with are issues that hit their boardroom refocused their CIOs their other [ph] committees their non-gov committees their CEOs around enterprise risk and budget follows that.
And then that's occurred and continued to worsen in Q3.
And by the way Paul I think that will be ongoing and that has been baked into our guidance.
I think that goes on not just through Q4 but 2015 as well.
However while not at the table for those discussions we're of course on the periphery of those discussions are working on solutions that enable our clients to deal with those issues.
So for example we have a Connected Payments application secure Connected Payments application that we sell is gaining more and more momentum as a result of those issues.
The disruption going on in Retail around the move from physical to e-commerce is both a negative in terms of hardware sales and a positive for us in terms of longer-term software sales.
And of course payments is also in the process of being disrupted.
For us in payments while we support all of the various providers PayPal Apple Pay MCX in many ways we are a party to that end-to-end transaction.
And as those technologies will allow the win for us is really around professional services of integrating those capabilities into the front end of our customers' business.
But all of those things you mentioned are -- when combined with the challenges retailers are faced with financially right now the issues we described earlier around data privacy are also impacting their budgets their focus and their resources.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two quick housekeeping questions.
One is what was the organic growth rate for Digital Insight please on standalone basis if you're able to share that? And Bob what are your working cap expectations for the fourth quarter? Yes DI I mean the business is growing.
We typically haven't gone and given the prior year numbers because they had a different year end and it was too difficult to maybe pull together to get a comparable number.
But the business continues to grow as referenced by the statistics that I outlined.
And then what was the second question Paul? Research Division</strong> Working cap usage or whatever you expect in the fourth quarter.
It doesn't look like it's a major -- has a major bearing on free cash flow but I'd still like to hear how inventories and accounts receivables will change in the fourth quarter.
Yes again my goal is to try to improve the DSO by 1 to 2 days at the end of December and we've been quite successful improving the inventory turns.
So I expect we'll have a good news story from a working capital perspective.
Our next question comes from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Given that you started to see some of this weakness in September and I know you announced your restructuring previously and prior to that is there a need for additional restructuring given where the market is now? Or do you feel comfortable? Perhaps Ian there may be.
What we're going to do is we're going to continue with the program we have underway right now.
We want to see how Q4 is turning out throughout the quarter rolling up our 2015 growth plans see what that looks like and then determine whether or not to achieve our goals for next year whether or not we need to do something more around restructuring.
So that call will be made in Q4 going into 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also can you talk in Hospitality and also Retail what you're basically seeing? I guess if you could as best as you could maybe break it down from a pricing versus I guess volumes.
And I know it's a little bit difficult but I'm just trying to get a sense of where is your pricing going in Retail and Hospitality versus where your units are going.
Yes.
Pricing is relatively stable in Hardware today but volume is down.
So if you look across the hardware landscape and we expect this to be the case Retail's purpose-filled point-of-sale terminals will slowly decline yet pricing in that environment because there's fewer players in that space now remains okay.
So nothing that we haven't seen in prior years current courses [ph] feed price erosion and point-of-sale.
Self-checkout has been stable as well.
Now that's more of a growth space in hardware for us and will continue to be going forward.
And again we had about 75% market share in that space so we get to see pricing on a global basis like no other company.
And I think that we are doing well there in terms of erosion.
But in the case of 2014 I think we'd be flat in terms of volume in self-checkout versus '13 in terms of total number of units on that basis.
And then in the Retail -- I'm sorry in the Hospitality space volumes again are in Hardware slightly up and that's driven mostly by our SMB business and pricing there seems to be relatively stable.
But let me ask both Michael to go first and then Paul.
You guys have a perspective that you can share with Ian as well? Ian what I'd say now 3 months in the role and having touched personally 30 customers around the globe is that we of course and especially in the Hardware volumes which have an impact on our performance we have the buying cycles of the customers and we've seen a lot of our customers not investing in Hardware -- in significant Hardware volumes this year.
Having that said is according to what Bill also outlined that we see building strong demand in our self-checkout solutions also in countries where self-checkout hasn't been a major driver so far predominantly Eastern Europe and Russia where we have to understand where the macroeconomics are going to lead us to.
So I personally expect hardware volumes from a device point of view to go up next year and pricing as Bill said going to stay pretty much steady.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick question.
Bob I know you mentioned you're not going to talk about 2015 until February.
But I just wanted to drill down a little bit if I could and maybe I'll ask it this way.
Roughly speaking earnings should be about $450 million.
These are rough numbers and free cash flow is roughly $130 million or so.
So there's arguably a $300 million delta between those 2 numbers.
What is that delta going to look like in 2015 maybe 2016? And do we ever see those 2 numbers converge? Yes.
I guess what I would do Ian is point you to Chart 17.
And again I'm not sure where you're getting the $130 million of free cash flow.
Research Division</strong> That's Fox River.
Yes and I guess what you've done is just backed out the $93 million recovery.
Is that right? Research Division</strong> That's right.
Yes I mean that would not be the right thing to do because included and you could see in one of the footnotes well yes we'll have the $93 million recovery but we'll also will have spent another $93 million as expense in there cleaning up the river.
So this year in 2014 for most of the year we were added a loan of cleaning up Fox River and incurring those costs.
So really if you look at that $225 million to $275 million number there's really a net 0 in there in terms of $93 million recovery offset by $93 million of expense.
So the free cash flow is a little bit higher.
We tend to look at it as we've done a reasonable job on some of these legacy items and so if you look at the adjusted free cash flow those are amounts that are coming down significantly in '15 and beyond.
So our goal is to try to get that adjusted free cash flow number to as close to adjusted net income as quickly as possible.
So again I'm optimistic that we're dealing with some of these legacy items.
CapEx is going to be 10% down next year.
We're going to drive more software and NPOI that will improve the free cash flow and working capital has an opportunity to help as well.
So again my goal is to get that number to 100% of adjusted net income as quickly as we can.
Our next question comes from Meghna Ladha with SFG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Bill in your prepared remarks you talked about execution issues in Retail.
Can you elaborate on that? Yes.
I would say first of all Meghna I'm a tough grader in general.
And we've had a tough week because we're tough on ourselves this week.
This is a week we're not used to having.
But we're also quite introspective and when we have something like this whether it's within our control or not we go back and understand what happened.
What could we have done better and how will we fix that and learn from that? Learn from it and then fix it going forward.
It's hard to determine how much of what happened in Q3 is market forces versus execution but let me give you a shot of what I believe the execution issues have been that we're working on and that Michael is determined to resolve.
And I feel comfortable that we have -- this doesn't start with Q3.
It only goes back to the end of Q1.
We are first and foremost we have to make sure we sourced and put in place solid long-term leadership for this business.
And I believe in Michael.
I know Michael for 15 or 20 years now and feel comfortable he is not only the right guy but the right kind of leader we need for this business.
Secondly on a more broad basis if you look at our solution portfolio rationalizing that and simplifying that is something we could have done and need to do a better job of meaning with all of the assets we now have from NCR from Retalix and from Radiant coming together we have to make sure that we optimize those assets and simplify our go-to-market solutions.
Secondly sales go to market and how we go to market is also something we're working on.
Do we have the optimal sales route to market for each geography we're working in? And that's not just Tier 1 but how do we package our solutions to go down market more effectively to Tier 2 to a 6? And I'm not resting sober here but more or less our packaged Retail Solutions in that space.
Thirdly sales transformation.
We're working hard to transform what was once mainly a hardware sales force into an end-to-end solutions sales force.
And I think Michael and I would say that that's one of our top goals and we just have not made the progress there that we want to make.
And then lastly an area where we've done well but needs more work is in the area of customer services and making sure that we're continuing to invest and deliver great service in that business where by the way we've made great strides this year and have won back some very significant customers but need more work.
And this is Bob.
I'm going to throw one more in that I know Michael is very focused on and it's funnel management.
In funnel management the opportunities that the sales teams put into the pipeline is what gives NCR the headlights into the business.
And if you think about Retail back at the beginning of this quarter we had done about $1 billion of revenue in the first half of the year and the headlight said we'd do about $1.1 billion in the back half of the year.
We were optimistic because order growth was up roughly 11% in Q2.
What we didn't see happening was the decline of orders of 27% overall in retail in Q3 and 47% in North America.
So working with the sales teams understanding the funnel not just for the next quarter out but the quarter after that and the quarter after that and really giving us the headlights that then allows the team to manage the costs appropriately.
I'd say it's the next phase that we're very focused on.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
On a separate topic Bill what strategic moves might you come to do to increase shareholder value going forward? What businesses do consider non-core that you could monetize quickly and probably return capital to shareholders? Well I'd say the following first of all top of mind for me and our Board of Directors is improving our performance improving our ability to drive what we believe is an undervalued share price back to an appropriate value.
And in doing that what we normally do in current course of speed and routinely is looking at strategic alternatives.
And how can we do that? And of course in the context of that capital structure becomes a discussion and there are a variety of ways in which we believe we can return capital to shareholders.
It's safe to say right now that while we feel very comfortable with the assets we have M&amp;A is off the table.
So we're looking at all of the appropriate things that you would think Meghna we would look at to improve value including what makes sense divestitures of non-core businesses which I won't get into details on the call today.
Our next question comes from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Natalia Kogay for Katy Huberty.
Bob you've listed several factors that will help your cash generation in 2015 but I don't believe working capital needs was one of them.
Can you maybe give us some details on how your free cash flow training program is progressing and whether you expect working capital to be a use of or source of cash in 2015? Yes.
Again just to be a little bit more specific on working capital my goal would be to try to improve the DSO next year 2 to 3 days.
That's the biggest focus area within working capital.
I would say inventory and payables have improvements to be made but I'm very focused on receivables.
For every day of DSO that means $15 million to $20 million improvement next year.
So that's the type of benefit I'm hoping to achieve.
We'll move on to Matt Lipton with Autonomous Research.
Just first on the backlog you've changed the retail guidance now twice and we're now looking for negative revenue growth in the year.
So I mean does your guidance imply that the backlog turns negative as it end the year? No.
The guidance does not imply that.
We are expecting to begin 2015 with positive backlog growth on the back of what would be a book-to-bill of greater than 1 in the quarter.
We're not going to get into Q4 forecast for orders for Retail but right now I would say given what we do know I would fully expect us to come into next year with positive backlog growth.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Bob a question for you.
Organic software growth has obviously trended from the mid-teens down to the single digits.
When you think about that $650 million of software now it's obviously $750 million for the year as of last quarter how much of that is exactly NCR legacy software and Retail that obviously seem to be the biggest problem in the quarter? Yes.
Again the drop in software from the overall goal was almost entirely Retail software.
And again that's primarily the legacy NCR software business.
Can you give us a sense of how big it is of that overall piece for the company? Of the actual reduction in software you're saying? No not the reduction.
Just how much of NCR's overall software revenue of $650 million now expected for this year comes from the legacy NCR Retail software business? Okay.
Again I mean if you think about NCR in total about 26% of our overall revenues is software-related.
Retail is actually a little bit higher than that more towards 30% and that's because they have a very robust software offering both in software licenses in professional services.
And so the decline and we brought the software number down by roughly $50 million in total that's about the extent in terms of the size of their business.
Got it.
And then the last one for me.
I mean it's nice to see the environmental liability get below $50 million.
It's obviously been a free cash flow drag and was there around $45 million to $55 million before the settlement.
When you think about next year and the year after I mean can we now assume that that drag will be much more minimal than $45 million to $55 million? Meaning you run that off in the next year or we still -- the stocks will really not end from a free cash flow headwind until 2017 still? Yes.
I mean from my perspective and Bill talked about the reserve that was on the books $57 million.
That to me is a reasonable approximation of the free cash flow over the next couple of years.
Our next question comes from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions here just to go back to Retail.
I guess I'm just surprised by the magnitude.
Revenue is down $5 million year-over-year operating profit is down $26 million the worst margin performance since the first quarter of 2012.
I guess I'm just trying to understand how this all snowballed in September? Yes.
Again Matt and again I don't want to oversimplify this.
But feeling reasonably good coming out of Q2 with 11% order growth and pretty solid backlog around 30%.
But it shows you down 27% in orders in Q3 47% in North America and then the other regions as well were negative and they were positive in Q2.
So it shows you some of the Retail impact was not just North America base but also some of our larger customers internationally as well.
And then when we saw the order forecast for Q4 that's what caused us to drop the revenue for the back half of the year by roughly $100 million.
And the big impact Matt in terms of profitability in the back half because I mean I'd say 2 things.
One is software deals were substantially lower than what we expected both in terms of backlog conversion and then sell and bill of the new orders we expected to come in that did not come in.
So that accounted for a significant number in terms of profitability.
The other area I talked about earlier was PS costs were higher as we deploy some of these large Retalix projects.
We're spending more on professional services costs than frankly in some cases we should be and it was not well managed in the quarter.
And then the last thing I'd say is what really also hit us in Q3 in the last 2 weeks of September was the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
We saw a year-over-year $7 million negative profit impact as a result of September and the shifts alone in FX and almost all of that was the last few weeks of September.
And that was above the line.
Now below the line we saw another approximately $7 million of impact and then higher OIE.
So when you think about that your tax suggests for that it's about a $0.06 year-over-year hit just in FX and just in the last few weeks of September.
Research Division</strong> And then just sort of the last question.
Just in terms of the turnover you've seen with senior management in the last 9 to 12 months with Peter Jennifer John some voluntary some involuntary.
I guess Bill are you starting to see or are you comfortable that you're going to see relative stability in the senior ranks of the company? And I guess are you still looking to backfill in the case of Peter and John and kind of where you're at with that process? Yes I'm very comfortable with the team we have today Matt.
And Ken [ph] will be very proud of Jennifer.
She's here today.
Well one of the things as the CEO you hope is that people who work for you can go on and achieve their career goals.
Peter went on to be a CEO.
I'm proud of him.
He's doing well.
Jen is going on to be a GC of a Fortune 100 company.
Around there? [indiscernible] Yes.
And in many cases this year we've made conscious decisions around others to change the structure of the organization.
So in some cases there wouldn't be places for some of those people anymore because we changed the way we're structured.
I am very confident in the team we have today some of which have been with us for a long time.
Bob and I have been partners for forever and I've got people on my team who have been here for 25 years and some like Andy Heyman who came to us from Radiant who's doing a great job in Financial and I'm proud of him and the work he's done.
Paul Langenbahn from Radiant now running Hospitality.
And of course my new hire Michael Bayer who worked for me by the way in 2 previous companies who I'm greatly proud of as well.
So it's a great team and unless we have -- I think we have a good stable group.
And to your point stability for us has been pretty good and actually could be even better going forward.
Our next question comes from Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Bill as you take all these -- the restructuring initiatives especially for the Retail business at what point do you think the Retail margins might go back to what had been intended for 2014? Bob do you want to take that? Yes I mean I can -- obviously it's been a disappointing year for operating margin for Retail.
We finished the last year at 10% and we were very proud of that number because again Retail had always been low single-digits and the heavier mix of software 30% plus and the revenue stream was driving that operating margin.
We started this year slow at 7% went up to 10% in Q2 but then dropped to 5% here in Q3.
So our goal in Q4 is to recover back to that Q2 level and go up from there.
So our goal is to be a double-digit operating margin business within Retail and continue to expand the margin rate every year.
So we're not happy with how we performed in Q3.
And then Bob as you look at 2015 some potential drags on cash flow would the acquisition-related costs and restructuring and pension be about the same for you in 2015 as they were in 2014? And obviously you're going to get the benefit of Fox River basically going to 0.
Well yes a couple of things.
On Fox my comment was that the reserve roughly resembles the cash outflow so 57 over the next 2 years.
You decide how you want to split that but that would be the Fox cash out the door until it's all done within 2 years.
In terms of the M&amp;A costs I'm very confident that that will come down to less than $10 million next year if it's that high.
And then pension contributions because of the work we've done this year would be lower than $50 million.
So again all of those trending in the right direction.
And Bill in the past you've given 2016 free cash flow guidance.
Obviously what happened in this quarter kind of just messes up things for this quarter.
Do you still feel comfortable kind of where you laid out 2016 that you can achieve that goal? For 2016 cash flow? Yes.
I mean again our goal on cash flow is to drive it to be as close to 100%.
I think Bill's comments earlier that we'll use the month of November here and really understand what the impact is to the markets and give guidance based on that.
It's 2016 Kartik feels a long way away.
We've got a lot of work to do here to execute for and give appropriate guidance for '15.
No I understand Bob.
I just didn't know if you saw something in the business.
In the past you've given that guidance.
That's only the reason I was asking.
If you saw something in the business that makes you concerned.
I'd say this Kartik -- I'd say there's a couple of things.
It's important to say.
One is that everyone on our team is focused on driving cash flow both in terms of just all of us being aware it's important to perform in that area as a metric.
And secondly in terms of how they're compensated.
So it gets their attention fast.
And by the way I think if you look at this year linearity has improved as a result of that given where we were last year.
We're not happy with the reduction in free cash flow guidance but we're doing a better job of driving cash flow by quarter on a linear basis.
The thing that I would say is I do think that and perhaps it's challenging to do but to look out at the future cash flows of NCR.
And of course internally we model those things every week if not more regularly.
And I remain very optimistic about this company's ability to drive significantly improved cash flows in '15 and beyond.
Yes.
I'll make one final comment is that when I look at the things that drives us to that number in '16 a lot of them are headed in the right direction.
We continue to do a good job on cash taxes.
That runs about 12% 13% for the company in terms of cash taxes paid.
Our CapEx came down roughly $10 million from Q2.
So we've said we're going to reduce CapEx by 10% next year.
That helps.
Interest expense will come down as the company continues to delever a lot of these nonoperational items we've already talked about.
Working capital will improve.
So I'd say we're on the right runway Kartik but the biggest driver to free cash flow is the operating income that the company drives.
And the operating income the best bang for your buck you get is when you drive more software as part of the mix.
So again we're very focused on those 2 pieces as well.
And then just one last question Bill.
If you look at the ATM business you had a solid quarter you had good growth and even the margins were fantastic.
So as you look at that business can you just talk about -- I know you've talked about regions where you've had strength.
Can you get a little bit granular and just talk about countries where you're having some success that helps you drive the results you've been driving? Yes Kartik.
Let me ask Andy Heyman because I know he's on the line he runs that business to make some comments on your question.
Andy? Yes.
Thanks Bill.
We've had a lot of success this year on margin expansion and obviously it's a business that a 100 basis point improvement in gross margin in any given quarter drops $10 million to the bottom line.
So in this particular quarter we had an 800 basis point improvement in solution in the solution margins and 500 basis point improvement in total.
So it was a great margin quarter.
And by the way half of that was driven from the core and half of that from Digital Insight.
So lots of goodness there.
In terms of countries the 2 I would point to would be really throughout Western Europe where if you look at Europe and exclude Russia we're up in the teens this year in terms of revenues and we're in the quarter as well.
And that tends to be much higher margins for us.
And the second one would be in the United States where we're up even more significantly than that.
And when you look at that with the U.S.
we've had a great mix shift towards more community financial institutions which tends to have higher margins as well.
So those are big drivers for us from a regional perspective.
And then of course there's also a product mix shift that's going on as well.
You didn't ask about that but that's the other part of the margin expansion story.
Our next question comes from S.K.
Prasad Borra with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Bill first on your pipeline for 2015.
Typically by this time of the year what visibility do you have on the pipeline for 2015? And has that been impacted because of the issues in the Retail segment? And one for you Bob.
What is your nondollar exposure? And how much of the nondollar exposure is hedged? The pipeline right now for 2015 and it's really what we call the front log.
The front log is what's in your funnel what's in your backlog and what does your order outlook look like for Q4.
If I looked at that all of that kind of translates to what would the backlog be going into Q1 and then modeling out Q1 orders.
Let's say right now we'll go into Q1 of 2015 with a company backlog up higher than last year going into Q1 and that would be more so.
Our Financial Services backlog up slightly higher than Retail going into the year.
So think high single-digit backlog growth going into Q1 versus mid-single-digit going into Q1 in '14.
So vis-à-vis the pipeline I would say we're cautiously optimistic.
But we really want to see how Q4 plays out more so in Retail.
And are some of these macro factors that affected us in September going to continue? We won't know that until the next time we talk.
Bob? I'd say from a foreign currency perspective if you think about roughly 30% to 35% of our revenues in the U.S.
you've got a lot of international flows.
But we've done a good job over the last 3 to 5 years to match those flows.
So we're naturally hedged.
So when I think about the euro for example and there's a lot of revenue that flows through Europe in euros the net exposure is only around $200 million and then we hedge roughly half of that as an example.
So we try to protect ourselves by buying in local currency and creating natural hedges.
And it's helped by the fact that we have the 5 manufacturing plants.
Something from the timing of the FX rate movement in Q3 is what really hurt us.
And because we have more revenue in the last month of the quarter and our expenses are more linear evenly spread out through the quarter we got hurt more on the revenue piece due to the late changing exchange rates but we did not get the benefit from the lower spend because call it 2/3 of that have already been spent in the quarter.
So my impact of FX was much more significant.
I also saw a lot of currencies move against me frankly that we can't hedge whether it's Russia India Brazil.
Those are the more challenging ones.
When I look at Q4 right now at the current exchange rates I'm kind of back to my kind of normalized FX where I've got about 10% to 15% above the revenue flow through.
So right now when I look at Q4 I had about a $15 million revenue impact and about a $2 million impact to the profit for the company.
And that's because I'm benefiting in Q4 from the lower expenses because of FX.
The issue in Q3 was I just couldn't react quick enough because the rates changed very late in the quarter.
So overall we're hedged from a natural perspective and it appears to be moderating in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on the professional services comment you made.
Are there any one-off factors related to any customers or projects which to an extent will explain the weakness in operating profit and free cash flow performance? Yes.
I think in the quarter the lower gross margin rate in PS and Retail is really focused on our top largest software rollouts where the PS content is significant and complex.
And you could probably point to probably 5 to 6 customers who are rolling out very substantial projects with us where we're investing an enormous amount in PS.
And if you don't run that business in a very disciplined way around billable utilization around costs around scoping and savings of work being done appropriately you can get leakage.
And we had too much of that in Q3.
Our next question comes from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us how much of a contributor the upgrades from Windows XP as it gets closer to a sunset was to your ATM business? And then when do you expect that to roll off? Andy why don't you take that? Yes.
We definitely had some goodness this year specifically in a couple of regions a little bit in the Middle East and a little bit in the U.S.
with upgrades to Windows 7.
I would say those have been -- kind of think of it as a 1% kind of factor for the business at a global level.
I think that'll continue into the first half of next year and then we're already talking with many of those customers about just once they're complete with that how budgets will then move towards other programs around things like security where we also expect some pretty nice tailwinds over the coming months and quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then would you mind breaking out Retalix revenue growth? It seems like you're still keeping track of orders.
Do you also have a sense for what the revenue growth was in the quarter? I don't think we do.
I don't think we do Gil.
And again the difficulties for that is the mix now with Retalix between core solution and Retalix.
We're making -- I think I've said before as we simplify the product line we're making tradeoffs now between what was an NCR application.
Is it better than what was a Retalix application for the same purpose? And which one do we sell? So as far as the lines have blurred quite significantly -- and by the way over time as we do more of that rationalization of the portfolio it will be impossible to tear that apart.
Now on the order side we can see clear order growth for PS and other attributes of Retalix that is still easier for us to track but that's also beginning to blow as well.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in terms of cash flow what was your insurance recovery this year for Fox River and the other environmental matters? And how does that compare to last year? [indiscernible] Not material.
Not material pretty low.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question.
Other income this year -- this quarter was a little higher than usual the loss there.
What attribute -- what is that attributable to? Yes.
That's the FX piece that we talked about.
It was roughly $9 million.
And when we said that was up about 7 it was 2 in the prior year.
So that's a big swing.
Thank you.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Nuti I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I think I'll close with where we started the call and just say that it was disappointing for us to have to deliver the news we did on Monday.
We don't like getting surprises or giving them and we're dedicated as a team to improving in that area.
I will look forward to coming to you in February on our next call with a better report.
Thanks for the time.
This does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the NCR Corporation Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Gavin Bell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining our Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Joining me on the call today and offering opening remarks are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally available on the call today for Q&amp;A are Andy Heyman Senior Vice President and President Financial Services; Michael Bayer Senior Vice President and President Retail Solutions; and Paul Langenbahn Senior Vice President and President of Hospitality.
Our presentations and discussions today include forecasts and statements that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and in our periodic filings with the SEC including our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will be referring to presentation materials posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures and other information concerning such measures are included in the presentation materials and in our earnings release.
These are also available on the Investor Relations section of NCR's website.
A replay of the call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Nuti.
Thanks Gavin.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Our Q4 and full year results came in within or above our updated guidance from our Q3 call.
However while Q4 was consistent with our internal expectations 2014 was a challenging year primarily as a result of retail end market challenges and FX headwinds.
And while we navigated through these issues we were disappointed with not being able to achieve our initial 2014 guidance.
That said 2014 was also a year of several accomplishments.
Financial Services met or exceeded our internal expectations made meaningful progress in strategic transformation and continued to gain market share in physical and digital channels.
Our software and cloud businesses experienced significant growth which allowed us to drive meaningful margin expansion and our services business further pulled away from our competition with improved delivery.
We also successfully integrated Digital Insight while simultaneously meeting our business plan and upgrading our Digital Insight cloud infrastructure to provide reliable service on a scalable secure platform.
And while Retail Solutions missed their internal operating income plan by over $100 million we increased our leadership position in the burgeoning omni-channel software segment.
NCR remains positioned at the forefront of consumer transaction technologies and are securely connecting consumers and businesses in more channels and more ways than ever before.
Our global leadership is evidenced by the nearly 550 million transactions we enable around the world each day of which now over 20 million are digital transactions and mainly mobile in nature.
Today I'm going to review Q4 and the full year results as well as discuss a few areas where NCR made progress in 2014.
I'll also speak to 2015 and some of the things we are focused on in the year ahead.
Starting on Slide #3 which summarizes our results for Q4.
Revenues were up 6% as reported up 11% on a constant-currency basis and up 5% on an organic constant-currency basis.
FX headwinds in Q4 negatively impacted revenue by approximately $75 million year-over-year.
Revenue growth was driven by Financial Services as well as software-related revenues.
Our increase in higher-margin software revenues drove operational gross margin expansion of 120 basis points to 30.2% in Q4.
Operational gross margin was up 10 basis points excluding Digital Insight.
NPOI was $251 million for the fourth quarter up 14% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.88 up 6% year-over-year.
Excluding Digital Insight NPOI was up 1%.
You can see we also faced FX headwinds in NPOI and EPS during the fourth quarter.
Our free cash flow in Q4 was $229 million which was down year-over-year but as you'll see on the next slide higher for the full year.
Slide #4 shows our results for the full year.
Revenues were up 8% as reported up 10% constant currency with FX headwinds of approximately $120 million year-over-year.
Full year revenue was up 4% on an organic constant-currency basis.
Revenue for the full year was driven mostly by Financial Services which had a solid year as well as by growth in software and cloud.
Recurring revenues reached 41% of total revenues which remains an important area of focus for us.
Operational gross margin was 29.5% in 2014 an improvement of 100 basis points year-over-year.
Excluding Digital Insight operational gross margin was down 30 basis points.
We generated $820 million in NPOI in 2014 up 14% year-on-year and flat excluding Digital Insight.
Non-GAAP EPS was down 2% year-over-year.
Organic operational gross margin and NPOI as well as non-GAAP EPS were negatively impacted by a challenging retail end market and significant FX headwinds.
Lastly free cash flow was $313 million in 2014 up $106 million from the prior year primarily as a result of improved working capital management and $45 million of higher recoveries related to Fox River.
As many of you know driving increased free cash flow is a major priority of ours.
Despite lower-than-expected NPOI we made progress against that goal this year.
Bob will give you more color on that in a few minutes as well as some insights into our goals for 2015.
Turning now to Slide #5.
I'd like to update you on our software-related revenue growth.
Q4 software-related revenue was $477 million up 32% compared to last year and up 8% excluding Digital Insight.
Q4 cloud revenue was up 231% in total and up a solid 15% excluding Digital Insight driven by cloud growth in Hospitality.
For the year software-related revenues reached $1.75 billion up 38% year-on-year and up 12% excluding Digital Insight.
Cloud revenues for 2014 were up 239% overall and up 15% excluding Digital Insight again primarily driven by cloud growth in Hospitality.
As you know one of our key strategic goals is to increase software-related revenue particularly cloud as a percentage of our total revenue.
Doing so has a positive impact on higher-margin recurring revenue streams as well as generating improved cash flow.
This will continue to be an area of long-term focus.
Turning now to Slide #6 where we can see the multiyear impact our software strategy has had on operational gross margin which reached 29.5% in 2014.
This translates to a 600-basis-point improvement compared to 2010.
We expect software-related revenue in 2015 will continue to grow at a faster rate than overall revenue including hardware and other services thus improving our revenue mix and driving gross margin rate expansion.
Slide #7 shows some of the accomplishments of the NCR team in 2014.
First Financial Services' business performance and transformation.
Our Financial Services business achieved solid growth both organically and with Digital Insight.
Financial Services gained market share in strategic segments like smaller financial institutions improved margin both organically and inorganically via higher growth in software and cloud and transformed our value proposition in retail banking.
NCR's customer experience software platform otherwise known as CxP is rapidly becoming the secure multichannel software architecture of choice for banks around the world.
Software and cloud growth continue to give us confidence and improved margins long term higher-margin recurring revenues and a competitive advantage in the growing omni-channel omni-commerce software segment.
In fact NCR is now 1 of the top 100 software companies in the world according to PwC Global 100 Software Leaders.
This is a great accomplishment given just 5 years ago software was a very small percentage of our overall business.
Where we are now with software is in part due to the addition of Digital Insight.
As many of you recall we closed on the purchase of Digital Insight a little over a year ago.
The addition of Digital Insight transformed our Financial Services business and gives us what we believe is the most comprehensive end-to-end solution for banking across physical and digital channels.
The business delivered solid results in 2014 and we are pleased with the customers' response to our strategy revenue synergies in the small- mid-sized bank segment and the traction of our mobile offers.
I am also pleased with the consistent progress made internally to integrate Digital Insight technology and our people into NCR.
We also took additional steps in 2014 to address our pension exposure.
The Phase 3 initiatives we've implemented this year included a retiree lump sum offer and a group annuity purchase.
As a result it reduced our overall pension liabilities and future mandatory cash contributions.
We also made significant progress on Fox River this past fall including favorable rulings that overturned not only the decisions holding us 100% liable but also the injunction that required us to do the clean-up work.
We also collected $106 million against our API Fox obligation.
Similar to our progress on pension these developments reduce our risk and improve our overall cash flow.
On Slide #8 I'll wrap up by talking about 2015 and some of the key areas we are focused on in the year ahead.
Those of you that follow NCR know a major theme here has been innovation.
I believe it is at the heart of everything we do and is key to our ability to consistently deliver value to our customers and empower them for success as consumer preferences evolve for how they connect interact and transact with business.
Innovation will remain core to what we do in the year ahead as we take the next steps in our transformation.
The further expansion of our software and cloud revenues continues to be a key area of focus for NCR in 2015.
Whether it is advancing our brand's transformation solutions or our mobile offerings for Retail and Hospitality we will become a more relevant software partner for our customers and enable them to provide the experiences and transaction capabilities that today's consumers demand.
We are also going to advance our strategy of strengthening NCR as a company.
In the year ahead a major goal of ours is to transform key areas of our business most notably sales and service.
The goal of this effort is simple: to be the highest-performing sales force we can be complemented by expanded service offers and unmatched service delivery.
Looking at our sales organization.
Our goal is to continue evolving our sales force into a more software-driven hardware-enabled solutions-oriented team.
It remains our goal to build a sales organization that is feared by the competition and valued as a trusted adviser by our customers.
Our services transformation really comes down to the innovation of new higher-margin value-added offers complemented by a more productive and efficient service delivery organization.
The redesign of our sales and services go to market is meant to complement the dramatic changes in our revenue streams products and solutions.
To wrap up we are happy 2014 is behind us and excited about the coming year and the opportunities ahead for NCR.
We're focused on executing our strategic plan to strengthen the value we provide to our customers and position NCR for growth over the long term.
Now I'd like to turn over the call to Bob to review our performance by line of business and our financials.
Bob? Thank you Bill.
I'll start on Slide 9 which shows our Q4 and full year operational result.
We have included full year results on the slide so you will have the information in one source but I will focus the commentary on Q4 results.
Revenue growth for Q4 is up 6% as reported up 11% on a constant-currency basis and up 5% on a constant-currency basis excluding Digital Insight.
As Bill mentioned the operational gross margin rate was 30.2% driven by more software-related revenue in the mix.
Expenses were slightly higher than the prior year at 16% of revenue.
NPOI margin was 14.2% up 100 basis points over prior year.
EPS was $0.88 up from prior year despite unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of approximately $13 million with roughly $6 million in NPOI and $7 million in interest and other expense.
The effective tax rate in the quarter was 20% and for the year was 22%.
The annual cash tax rate in 2014 was 12% lower than the effective tax rate which helps our free cash flow.
The next slide shows our Q4 and full year GAAP results.
The decrease in GAAP results is primarily related to the restructuring plan and pension expense.
The restructuring plan charge included in income from operations was $33 million in Q4 2014 and $160 million in full year 2014.
Pension expense was $150 million in Q4 2014 primarily driven by a mark-to-market charge due to the update in the U.S.
mortality table.
Pension benefit was $99 million in Q4 2013 due to higher discount rate.
The $150 million charge in Q4 was noncash.
We have significantly reduced our mandatory pension contribution in future years which you'll see on Slide 23.
Slide 11 is an update on the restructuring plan.
As a reminder we have included the key initiatives of the plan on this slide.
As far as progress to date we expect the total charge to be approximately $200 million to $225 million with $163 million in 2014.
The cash impact is expected to be approximately $100 million to $115 million with $29 million in 2014.
As far as savings generated we estimate approximately $18 million in 2014 $70 million in 2015 and $105 million in 2016.
As previously communicated we expect approximately 50% of the savings to benefit NPOI with the remainder reinvested in the business.
Additional details on the 2014 P&amp;L charge is included in the non-GAAP reconciliations on Slides 32 and 33.
Slide 12 shows the revenue by segment.
As you can see FX had a significant impact in the quarter.
Financial Services was up 20% on a constant-currency basis; 9% excluding Digital Insight which represented very solid organic growth; and Retail Solutions was up 2% on a constant-currency basis.
Overall revenue was up 5% on an organic constant-currency basis.
For the full year Financial Services grew 6% on an organic constant currency basis.
Slide 13 shows the operating margin by segment.
Full year results in 3 of the businesses were less than we expected when we started the year.
Retail Solutions suffered from challenging markets.
Hospitality saw weakness in certain global quick-service restaurants and Emerging Industries saw some cost challenges.
Q4 did show some recovery for each of the businesses.
Financial Services grew operating margins significantly both with and without the contribution of Digital Insight.
Financial Services' full year operating margin was up 230 basis points excluding Digital Insight.
This was driven by having significantly more software-related revenue in the mix.
I will cover segment results in more detail on the next few slides.
On Slide 14 you'll see our Financial Services update.
On a constant-currency basis revenues were up 9% excluding Digital Insight.
Operating income grew 43% with 55% from Digital Insight and 45% from the core business.
Operating margin expansion excluding Digital Insight was driven by growth in software and Branch Transformation and was up 210 basis points.
Excluding Digital Insight orders were down 11% and backlog was up 1% as a result of foreign currency fluctuations and challenges in certain countries like Russia and China.
As the business continues to transform to more software and services orders and backlog does not capture all of our revenue streams and therefore are not the best predictor of future revenue.
We are developing a more comprehensive measure that will include services and cloud and plan to share that with you later in the year.
Looking at Digital Insight's results which continued to perform ahead of expectations Q4 revenues were $93 million and Q4 operating income was $27 million.
Our integration plan is on track and our cross-selling program is delivering great results.
Our mobile active users finished the quarter at 6.8 million up 33%.
In summary Financial Services delivered solid results in 2014 with improved linearity in North America.
We believe the combination of NCR and Digital Insight creates a great platform for our customers.
The next slide shows our Retail Solutions' Q4 results.
Revenue and operating income were down as expected impacted by redirected IT spend and delays in customer rollouts.
Revenue was down 2% but up 2% on a constant-currency basis.
Operating margin was 8.9% which increased 400 basis points from Q3 2014 and was close to the operating margin from Q2 2014.
As expected orders were down in the quarter driven by challenges in Tier 1 hardware offset by software-related growth in North America.
Backlog after adjusting for the cancellation of a customer order in Q4 is down 6% going into the year due to delays in customer rollouts.
While we continue to experience a challenging retail market Q4 showed some positive signs.
In Q4 we saw continued solid demand for our omni-channel solution.
We also experienced strong year-on-year growth in professional services and software maintenance.
Additionally self-checkout revenue was up 5% in the quarter compared to the prior year.
Turning to the next slide.
Hospitality revenues were down slightly by 2% due to decreased spend by certain global quick-service restaurants.
However the higher-margin revenue streams were up significantly.
Software-related revenues were up 17% which includes cloud revenues up 19%.
Additionally cloud application sites increased 16%.
Operating margin performance was 16.9% up 210 basis points due to this favorable mix of revenues.
Our growth in software-related revenue is increasing wallet share with our existing customers through implementation of digital signage back office and consumer engagement solutions and services.
Our Engage platform which enables restaurant operators to leverage ordering payment loyalty and feedback in 1 seamless connected consumer-driven experience continues to grow surpassing 40 000 total application sites and 6 000 online ordering sites.
Next looking at our Emerging Industries business on Slide 17.
Revenues were $102 million down 4% year-over-year.
Telecom and Technology revenues which make up approximately 2/3 of this business were flat.
Operating income and operating margin continue to be negatively impacted by costs associated with managed service contracts in our Telecom and Technology business as well as further investments made in our small business offerings.
However margins did improve significantly versus earlier quarters in 2014.
In Telecom and Technology we had base expansion wins in new portfolios Advanced and Managed Services and launched a strategic partnership to deliver a next-generation security solution.
In our travel business we delivered a record 37 million mobile airline boarding passes in Q4 up 185% year-on-year.
On Slide 18 you can see the solid growth in cloud professional services and total software-related revenue on an as-reported basis.
Cloud was up 231% and up 15% excluding Digital Insight.
Software-related revenues grew 32% and 8% excluding Digital Insight.
Other services which as a reminder includes our traditional break/fix business was down by 3% as reported up 1% on a constant-currency basis.
And hardware revenue was flat as reported up 5% on a constant-currency basis.
For the full year software-related revenue was up 38% hardware was down 1% and other services were up 1%.
On Slide 19 you can see free cash flow for the quarter and year-to-date.
Free cash flow for Q4 2014 was $229 million compared to free cash flow of $317 million in the prior quarter.
The decrease was mainly due to changes in working capital restructuring spend and the timing of cash outflows related to discontinued operations.
We ended the year with free cash flow of $313 million compared to $207 million in the prior year.
This was above our revised guidance of $225 million to $275 million mainly driven by reduced spending relating to the restructuring plan which will shift into 2015 as well as improvements in working capital.
Discretionary pension contributions were $48 million in 2014.
These reduced future mandatory contributions and improved free cash flow.
We are guiding to a free cash flow range of $325 million to $375 million in 2015.
We expect our capital expenditures in 2015 to be in the range of $215 million to $235 million and discontinued operations to be approximately $35 million.
Additionally we expect our cash tax rate to be approximately 13% in 2015.
On Slide 20 you can see our estimated adjusted free cash flow when you add back nonoperational items including the impact of the restructuring plan.
We ended the year at 87% of non-GAAP net income.
Our goal is to improve adjusted free cash flow to 100% of non-GAAP net income in 2015.
On Slide 21 you can see our progress on working capital in the quarter.
Our cash conversion cycle improved versus the prior year.
We are committed to improve these metrics going forward with a specific focus on DSO improvement.
Slide 22 shows our net debt-to-EBITDA metric where we closed the year a little better than expected with a net debt leverage ratio of 3.1x.
We expect that most of our free cash flow generation in 2015 will go to pay down debt and continue to drive the business to lower leverage longer term.
Our goal is to reduce the leverage ratio to less than 3x by the end of 2015.
The next slide provides an update on pension.
We continue to make progress reducing our overall pension liability to approximately $4.4 billion at year end with major reductions in the U.S.
coming from our retiree lump sum offer and end-of-year annuitization.
We previously announced that our largest U.K.
plan the UK London Plan has been sold and full termination is currently expected during 2015 or early 2016 which will remove another $840 million of liability.
Our overall underfunded status is now roughly $200 million after the Q4 mark-to-market adjustment of approximately $150 million which included an update to the most recent U.S.
mortality table.
Again this $150 million was a noncash charge.
The underfunded position at the end of 2014 does include the UK London plan which is approximately $420 million overfunded and will transfer sometime in 2015 or early 2016.
You can see through our proactive work on pension global cash contributions have significantly decreased to $35 million in 2015.
We do not expect any mandatory U.S.
pension contributions for the next 5 years.
While the major projects for Phase 3 are complete we will continue to work on risk-reduction projects that drive shareholder value and reduce enterprise risk to NCR.
On Slide 24 we give our full year 2015 guidance.
The 2015 revenue guidance is expected to be roughly flat on an as-reported basis which includes approximately $300 million of negative FX impact.
On a constant-currency basis revenue is expected to be up 4% to 6%.
Constant-currency growth is driven by higher-value solutions in Financial Services Retail Solutions and Hospitality.
NPOI is expected to be between $830 million and $870 million primarily due to continued improvements in the software mix across the businesses and the benefit of the restructuring plan partially offset by approximately $50 million of foreign currency headwind.
Non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be approximately $2.60 to $2.80 due to higher NPOI offset by foreign currency headwinds and a higher effective income tax rate of 25% versus 22% in 2014.
The higher tax rate is due to audit settlements received in 2014 that are not expected to repeat in 2015.
OIE is estimated to be $215 million to $220 million versus $213 million in 2014.
Although interest expense is slightly lower FX continues to be a headwind and interest income is expected to be lower.
FX headwinds are expected to have a $0.20 per share negative impact in 2015 which is included in the guidance.
We expect free cash flow of $325 million to $375 million which includes restructuring spending of approximately $70 million to $85 million.
On Slide 25 we have our revenue guidance by segment which again includes significant FX headwinds.
On a constant-currency basis Financial Services' revenue is expected to grow 3% to 5% after being up 6% on a constant-currency basis in 2014 excluding Digital Insight.
Financial Services will continue to drive higher-value solutions including Branch Transformation.
Retail Solutions is expected to grow 4% to 6% constant currency after being flat on a constant-currency basis in 2014.
We expect market conditions will improve for our retail offerings in 2015 and will also improve our internal execution.
Hospitality is expected to grow 5% to 9% constant currency after being up 6% constant currency in 2014.
Hospitality is not expected to have the negative impact that it saw from the legacy quick-service business in 2014.
Emerging Industries is expected to be down 2% to up 3% as we continue to be more selective with our revenue streams.
On Slide 26 you will find our Q1 2015 guidance.
I expect revenue will be roughly flat with the prior year which includes a negative FX impact of roughly 5 points or $75 million.
I expect NPOI to be negatively impacted by roughly $10 million of FX.
The tax rate is forecasted to be slightly higher than the prior year at 23% primarily due to discrete benefits in Q1 of the prior year.
And now I'll turn it over to Bill for his closing comments on the quarter.
Thanks Bob.
I'll sum up on Slide #27.
Our Q4 performance was in line with our revised expectations that we laid out for you in our Q3 call.
The transformation of NCR continued in 2014 with further expansion of our software cloud and other recurring revenues.
Financial Services was a bright spot in Q4 and for the full year due to solid demand for our Branch Transformation solutions as well as the impact of Digital Insight.
Retail Solutions continues to face challenges but we are navigating through the headwinds and are focused on driving improved performance from that business.
And Hospitality had a good Q4 in terms of software and cloud.
During the year we also continued building a stronger NCR.
Our restructuring program is delivering results and we made progress against legacy issues like pension and Fox River.
We are excited about who NCR is today.
We have a solid team that is committed to providing value to our customers and we are focused on execution in the year ahead.
Operator please open up the lines now.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to explore a little bit more on this large client cancellation in the fourth quarter.
Is -- one I guess is is this just kind of the legacy self-checkout order that we had thought? Or was there something incremental to it? Is it endemic of the client-specific issues? Again just double checking.
Or is there something in the product that you were delivering that wasn't meeting their goals? That's a good question.
Michael Bayer speaking.
No it was a customized deal a customized project which we've designed in 2013 very close to the customer and we've taken the initial order with the rollout plan which we jointly selected.
And throughout last year the business climate for that specific customer changed drastically.
We've taken the decision to take it out because we couldn't see a possibility for them to finance that deal and get that going.
It was a one-off; has nothing to do with the major product line.
Yes.
Dan it was a nonstandard NCR product.
It was not in the current product portfolio.
We were being asked to build it for them.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you just elaborate a little bit on how you're thinking about that division? I mean I saw your guidance of kind of 46% but I'm thinking in terms of the bifurcation between your self-checkout business which has historically been pretty good and kind of the legacy register business which has been a bit of an attriting asset.
So how are we thinking about the cadence of layering that in throughout the year? And what are you seeing that might be good bad indifferent relative to the environment that we just came out of last year? There were a couple of things which we've done internally especially as we went through our software product rationalization to get ourselves straight on the product portfolio which we are driving into the market was also a lot of activity around self-checkout.
And interesting enough there are markets now opening within the self-checkout space.
We are driving upside in countries where we -- or where others are challenged on other industries.
So we have 3 very successful pilots of self-checkout in Russia.
We have pilots in China on self-checkout.
We see an uptick in Taiwan so very very interesting signs.
Also very interesting signs out of our installed base where we go from a version 4.
Currently we are on version 5 and we're going end of life so a lot of interest in upgrades in our self-checkout portfolio within our existing customers.
With some of the changes we've already seen early signs of recovery also internally how we go to market.
We've seen a recovery in Q4 on our PS software maintenance margin.
And again we saw the first uptick on self-checkout.
We've got a couple of big managed services deals which we can't talk about yet but in the final stage or already been awarded.
And we have a very very strong pipeline in North America also in Canada which will help us from a constant currency currency green-dollar basis against the currency headwind we face somewhere else in the world.
So the 46% or so that might look high are actually not that ambitious from my point of view given the fact that we compare it against the very low ball last year.
It was a challenging year for us but if you go back into '13 it doesn't look that prosperous.
So I think it's a good reflection of our market position.
We already see especially North America customers being through their work on EMV and PIN pads and moving back to their normal buying behaviors moving back to their normal priority of business which is much more favorable to us.
And I anticipate and forecast an uptick end of Q2 and in second half due to those changes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just ask one more then I'll hop back in.
The 1Q guide for NPOI once we've adjusted for the ForEx still a little bit lower than what I would have expected.
I'm wondering -- which kind of sets us up again for a little bit more of a back-end loaded year.
So is there anything for -- is there anything that you can I guess identify for us to help us understand kind of the ramp? And then in what area should we be kind of thinking that the first quarter on NPOI is light? Is it -- you just had a pretty strong quarter in Financial Services.
Is it in Retail? Or is it Hospitality? I just want to make sure we're level-setting that okay.
Yes.
I would answer that question by maybe providing a bridge first on full year and then on Q1.
When I think about our guidance starting from 2014 NPOI of $820 million we are facing $50 million of FX headwind.
So that would bring the prior year call it down to $770 million.
The restructuring plan that we have in place will help 2015 by roughly $25 million.
You think of that as being the $18 million of savings we got in 2014 compared to the $70 million we'll get in 2015 and then 50% of that dropping to the bottom line.
So my starting point is call it $795 million of NPOI.
And then going from there we talk about a midpoint of 5% constant-currency revenue growth for the full year in 2015.
And that typically brings with it somewhere around 15% to 20% flow-through on NPOI.
And then that's how you get the range on the full year.
To answer your Q1 question Q1 is a little lighter.
If I do the same math for Q1 I'd start off with last year as $155 million.
I would back out $10 million for FX to get me to $145 million.
I benefit around $5 million due to the restructuring plan so that takes me to $150 million.
I'm seeing constant-currency revenue growth of around 5% or $75 million.
That brings with it a little lower flow-through call it 10% to 15% in Q1.
But what is offsetting that is approximately $15 million of headwind mostly compensation-related as we compare this year to weaker performance in Q1 of last year.
So we do need to overcome those headwinds in Q1.
Those headwinds are more easily overcome throughout the full year.
But in Q1 the reason you're seeing a little lower NPOI is because of that.
I will say this; that NPOI in Q1 reflects about 17% of the full year NPOI which is roughly what we've done the last 3 or 4 years.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First up the operating margins in the Retail segment were pretty disappointing at times last year.
And it seemed like you had a more fixed cost base to that business than you would have liked.
Can you talk about how the restructuring or other things are making that more variable if they are at all? I'd say there were 2 major contributors to that trend you're pointing to.
The first one is related to a restructuring of our Professional Services business and how we cover our Professional Services footprint.
The second one is really related to a mix.
We've seen higher utilization and higher sales in our high-end product mix.
I'd like to point specifically to Connected Payments which was a big success factor for us in the second half of last year.
We've now added 6 000 additional stores.
We launched a private cloud offering for our top retailers who don't want to be on a multitenant cloud.
We've transacted 1.7 billion payment transactions through our systems on this platform last year.
And we have POS-ed 10 000 transactions a day in December.
So long story short it was mix and the benefit out of restructuring especially in Professional Services.
Yes Paul.
A couple more thoughts for you on this.
First of all in 2014 one of the areas we did a poor job in internally was in the management of PS costs.
So when you look at our PS business in '14 we probably burned through about $20 million of excess cost in PS.
And that's been rightsized over the course of the last call it 3 months.
So that should be helpful to us.
And one thing that was encouraging about Q4 for Retail was also the improvement in operating margins in the quarter from the prior quarter and then the prior 2 quarters in fact.
So I feel better about the job the team is doing there and I feel confident in the outlook that Bob gave you today in that business as it relates at least to the ability for us to manage fixed costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two more quick questions.
The Retail business is more back-end loaded than perhaps all of us would like.
But you've alluded in the past to a sort of sequential dependency here on EMV and data security.
Why is it that you're not participating in the strength that some of the EMV companies are seeing already in the retail purchasing cycle? Well I'd say 2 things.
Well one is when you think about the front end of a retail store and the technology deployed a lot of attention and capital has been spent on PIN pads and terminals as it relates to preparation for EMV and further on from that tokenization around meeting the mandate in October.
And what that does is it takes that amount of money being spent on that technology away from upgrading POS terminals and other peripherals.
It also -- what it does secondly for us what it has done for us is that combined with the entirety of the data security issue has delayed in some ways the focus on driving software omni-commerce and omni-channel software deals out.
We're seeing some of that come back.
We saw some of that in Q4 which was quite positive.
We're seeing some of that here in terms of activity in Q1.
But those are the 2 key reasons why we're not participating as much as you might see other vendors in that space.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question really for Bob.
The assumptions that go into 2015 guidance we might as well I think know what kind of dollar-euro exchange rate you've assumed so that we can sort of make incremental decisions moving forward.
And also are there any other sort of big macro assumptions that have gone into these numbers in terms of emerging markets or Europe or Asia Pac? In terms of the exchange rates and the FX impact that we're giving those are all based on end-of-January exchange rates.
And then the second part of your question Paul if you wouldn't mind repeating that for me? Research Division</strong> Well what I want to know is have you assumed sort of the worst of emerging markets at least in Europe? What would be big swing factors in the macro world that would therefore sort of impact our expectations around the year? Yes.
Again when we're talking emerging markets and I think I'll let Andy give his perspective you're talking mainly Financial.
And we've alluded to the fact that Russia and China were the big headwinds in '14 and will continue to be in '15.
But maybe Andy can add a little bit more color around how you think about emerging markets and Financial.
Yes.
I think when you look at it from our perspective and you look at kind of the FX-neutral growth in '14 being around 6% and then the estimates out there for '15 being in the 3% to 5% range really what you're looking at is continued normal healthy growth on the top line for Financial Services offset by the geopolitical risk specifically with Russia and China anticipated.
We thought it was prudent to be conservative on those lines given what we're seeing right now.
So I think your point about could there be upside if those 2 countries in particular come back I think the answer is yes to that although for us to plan on that right now we don't think would be prudent.
We'll take our next question from Ian Zaffino from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to understand the Financial Services guidance.
Can you actually give us maybe an understanding of by region what you're expecting and maybe what's going to outperform the 3% to 5% constant currency what might underperform? And I know you alluded to sort of China but as you think about Europe as you think about the U.S.
and also just maybe a discussion about bank Branch Transformation assumptions.
Yes.
This is Andy again.
So in terms of regionally for 2014 and you saw some of this in our opening comments in the developed markets we had a fantastic year last year.
You look at the United States you look at Brazil you look at Canada you look at Western Europe all of these areas growing high-single digits low-double digits same with Middle East and Africa as well.
So really good balanced growth other than the situations that we have with Russia and China and then of course some FX issues that hit us.
So as we look at '15 we really don't see a difference relative to '14.
We think we have more pressure specifically in Russia and China.
And we think the other markets that I just mentioned should continue to be mid- to high-single digit growth for most of them with a couple that should get to low-double digit growth as well.
In terms of product mix in terms of what you talked about again for us in '14 versus '13 Branch Transformation in particular doubled for us.
So we had the first year where it was a 9-figure year for us in Branch Transformation into the mid-100s in terms of revenue.
We see another significant increase in '15 probably low 9-figure levels call it $100 million or so in '15 again Branch Transformation growth.
And then we also see other high-value areas specifically around omni-channel and security driving continued a mix shift for the business.
So you can see how our margins expanded the last couple of years.
We're anticipating a continuation of that as well into '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you talk about the low hundreds of millions is that just the machines themselves? Or does that include sort of the retrofitting in the walls and the wiring and sort of all the other ancillary pieces that come with it? Or is that just short of the machines and then you would add on top of it? You're talking Branch Transformation now? Research Division</strong> Yes yes specifically.
Yes.
Well first of all just to be clear low $100 million not hundreds of millions just to be clear.
So think of it as in the 130-ish kind of million range for Branch Transformation growing into '15 another $100 million or so.
And that revenue is an all-in revenue.
It includes primarily product revenue.
There are some installation services.
There's quite a bit of software in terms of content there.
You're looking at an average selling price of something more like 2x a typical type of ATM.
And then there's a recurring revenue stream in terms of high-availability service that also goes with that.
But it's primarily product revenue.
We'll take our next question from Katie Haverty with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Natalia Kogay for Katie.
So it looks like inventory management drove some meaningful improvements in working capital.
Can you provide details around what happened during the quarter and whether the strength is sustainable in 2015? Yes.
Our focus on working capital is really on all 3 major areas: receivables inventory and payables.
Inventory was lower.
You have to keep in mind though that inventory benefited from the restructuring plan.
We had talked previously about writing off around $50 million.
So inventory is lower by that amount but that doesn't benefit free cash flow because that's a noncash item.
But outside of that that $50 million the team did a real nice job operationally in terms of both finished goods and raw materials.
I'd say I'm even more focused on DSO and so it was encouraging for me to see the 1-day improvement and we'll continue to be on that path really over the next couple of years in terms of improving accounts receivable.
So that would be a bit of a summary.
Overall the cash conversion cycle improved in Q4.
Research Division</strong> And as it relates to your 2015 free cash flow guidance what is your assumption on working capital performance? Do you expect it to be a positive or a negative versus '14? For 2015 what we'll see is the same.
As revenue grows the requirement for working capital will grow and it's around that 13% number.
So think of revenue growth x the 13% but then less.
My goal is to improve DSO by 1 day and that helps that number by $15 million to $20 million.
So that's how I think about working capital.
Research Division</strong> And the last question I guess the question to Bill.
Midway last year you spoke about evaluating your product portfolio and looking at some strategic alternatives.
Do you have any updates on that front? And which areas do you see as noncore to NCR? We're still looking at that and evaluating opportunities to divest noncore businesses.
That's underway so no major change there.
And we'll continue to look at that throughout the year and come back to you at some point when we have more definitive follow-up.
Your next question is from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> On your ATM business growth you're saying the developed economies are going to contribute more than developing economies because it's counterintuitive.
How much of that is due to Windows XP upgrades helping with that which also helps your mix? And how long do you think that that's going to last? Yes.
This is Andy.
So when we look at Windows 7 in terms of developing markets I would not single that out as a driver for the developed markets right now relative to the developing markets.
I think the major thing driving growth in the developed markets right now is the need for our customers to drive costs out of their retail network while at the same time transforming their omni-channel experience so they can improve their service to consumers.
That message is -- that need for banks and other financial institutions is creating an investment cycle for people to go through a much more advanced implementation of a software portfolio and other branch-transformative technologies.
So that's really what's going on in Canada in the United States in the Middle East and in Western Europe.
In terms of developing markets it's largely a situation where we've got geopolitical risks that really started to hit us in the fourth quarter and we anticipate could continue to hit us in '15 mostly targeted towards Russia and China.
So hopefully that helps get a little bit more precise versus just the developed versus developing market story.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then in terms of the new headquarters what's going to be the net outlay after tax benefits for the next couple of years? And what's the time for a payback on that investment? In terms of our headquarters which was announced I suppose earlier in the quarter our goal there is for an operating lease.
The plan is to move into that building sometime in early 2018.
And really that's when the operating lease payment would start.
The goal is to have that lease payment to be less than what we would pay for the existing facilities that we're in.
So there's a consolidation play here that'll benefit the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> And no investments until then? No.
No in terms of it being an operating lease so no impact to the free cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Last question about the 2 free cash flow excluding items: discontinued operation and the pension outlay.
Discontinued operation do we still have Fox River in there? If not what's in there? And how long is that outlay going to last? And then on pension this $35 million level is that now the run rate that we expect going forward? Or does that also lap at some point? Yes.
In terms of discontinued ops it's primarily Fox.
What you'll see in the 10-K is the reserve for Fox at the end of 2014 is around $40 million.
So think of that as being the Fox outlay over the next couple of years.
In terms of pension that $35 million has come down significantly.
You'll remember 3 years ago that was more like $150 million.
I think there is some improvement that can be made to the $35 million but it's small.
Think of that as $30 million to $35 million on an ongoing basis.
That reflects primarily the 15 to 20 international plans that we have.
There are no U.S.
contributions expected for the next 5 years.
We'll take our next question from Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Bill last quarter you discussed execution issues as one of the reasons for 2014 weakness.
Since then what steps have you taken that will help NCR avoid the same issue this year? Well primarily Meghna the -- if you look to 2014 in total I would say as a year I would not classify the execution issues in and of themselves any greater than a year we've done well or a year we've done poorly.
However they're magnified when you're not meeting your commitments.
And last year I would say primarily the execution issues were on Retail.
So on that front as you know we've made a number of changes to personnel over the course of 2014.
I'm happy to say that those changes appear to be quite positive in terms of people in terms of org structure in terms of processes and overall talent.
Now I would also say that we had to get into some technical issues in the year like PS cost I described earlier to Paul and other areas around expense management.
But I feel a lot better about where we are today vis-à-vis Retail execution.
And as I look around the company I would say while we will have execution issues in '15 we're all working hard to ensure that they're accretive to what was the '14 result meaning they are less than '14 in terms of impact on the year.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Retail you've talked about expanding Retalix beyond the grocery segment.
Are there any new wins that you can potentially discuss today? Michael Bayer speaking.
Retalix has product also outside the grocery segment.
So our Global Enterprise and Merchandise business is a former Retalix business where we've seen growth where we've seen cross-sell and upsell within our retail account as well as stand-alone business.
There is a PCR business in Retalix Petroleum &amp; Convenience which has ongoing growth globally especially in Asia.
And with the portfolio rationalization some of the Retalix products and especially applications will become our core application for our go-to-market independent of the segments.
So think about that more in terms of what is the best software -- Service-as-a-Software solution for loyalty moving forward cross-segment rather than thinking about a segment approach when it comes to core product and core platforms.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I have a question for Bob.
How much visibility do you typically have on your pipeline for the year? And how comfortable are you with the '15 guidance that you've put out today? I missed the first part of the question in terms of comfort with regards to what Meghna? LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the first one was how much visibility do you typically have on your pipeline for the year? And how comfortable are you with the '15 guidance that you've put out today? In terms of visibility for the pipeline for the year I would say right now Meghna about 41% of our business falls into the recurring revenue category.
And then we come into the year with a little over $1 billion in backlog.
So think about that as having about 60-plus percent of the year in terms of revenue that's quite visible.
The rest really comes from sell and bill.
And what we've done this year is we have taken a more pragmatic approach with regard to looking at sell and bill in the form of orders and backlog for Q2 3 and 4 to develop guidance.
And I would classify guidance as responsible.
I'm not ultra-conservative and not out there in terms of being aggressive.
I would say responsible.
Bob? Yes.
One of the reasons why I gave the more detailed bridge earlier in the call was just to focus on the areas that I think are important when analyzing NCR.
And so you have to first acknowledge that there are FX headwinds and then after that include the benefit for the restructuring plan.
And we will execute very successfully on the restructuring plan.
And then it really comes down to the constant-currency revenue guidance by division.
And hopefully what has come across on this call is that the numbers that we have are very achievable.
We haven't talked a lot about Hospitality.
We've talked about Retail one not being an easier compare; two some momentum coming into the year.
We talked about Andy's business in Financial seeing good growth in the developed markets some challenge in Russia and China.
And then when I look at Hospitality that's a business that grew constant currency 6% last year with significant headwinds on the legacy quick-service restaurant that really should not happen again in 2015.
So I feel very good about the 5% to 9%.
And then within Emerging that's just us going after -- being very selective in terms of us going after the right deals in Emerging.
So again I look at the revenue guidance I'm comfortable with that and the margin flow-through.
We'll take our next question from Kartik Mehta from Northcoast Research.
Bill I wanted to get your perspective on Digital Insight the type of growth you're anticipating for 2015 considering all the new signings that you've been able to get in 2014.
I'd say first of all on DI in general Kartik it was a good year for us across the board.
I was really pleased with the performance of DI in the year the revenue synergies we were able to achieve in FI through the small bank segments the integration of our technology and people.
And so overall it has a materially positive impact on our business and most importantly positioned our Financial business well for the future.
Perhaps Andy you can comment on '15 and what you're expecting there as well.
Yes.
So of course we're talking about a SaaS business here which in any one year given that we're not booking licenses in onetime revenues it's a lot about investment in 2 things: One is innovation new products that you can attach on to existing customers; and two is salespeople adding more salespeople to go get more customers.
With both of those the results become per-site per-month revenue improvements.
So as we're looking at this year we're looking at this year as a big growth year in terms of more salespeople more modules more users signed on from a financial institution perspective and really gravitating towards our long-term model of double-digit growth.
For '15 we think it'll be more tempered than that probably in the mid- to high-single digits depending on where things come out in terms of acceleration of deals and implementation of those.
And then Andy with -- based on your comments it seems like you're going to be investing for growth in that business for future.
Does that imply that maybe the margins could be impacted negatively? Or should the margins kind of stay where they were in 2014? Yes.
I would say 2 things.
First of all when we're talking about their gross margins you're talking about a business that the more we can drive growth the more we're able to leverage a fixed-cost structure in terms of hosting and support.
So our margins ought to gravitate in a positive way on the gross margin line.
From an operating margin perspective which may have been the heart of your question I do think '15 is an opportunity for us to make investments in both the product portfolio and the sales teams.
We want to be balanced with that and to ensure we don't get ahead of ourselves in terms of what salespeople can sell or what products we bill for.
So the operating margins we don't look for great margin expansion on DI in '15 although '16 and beyond we would anticipate that.
And Andy just I wanted to make sure I understood what you said on Branch Transformation and get a clarification.
Were you saying expect about $230 million in revenue in 2015 from Branch Transformation from $130 million add $100 million? Did I understand that correctly? Yes.
You're in the right ballpark.
Think of it as a mid-100s adding another -- in terms of $100 million plus call it $130 million 140-ish range add another $100 million onto '15.
And then I think you said expect that that drives about 2x the average sales price of a regular ATM and most of that is product.
Would that imply -- and I know this is rough math but would that imply about 3 500 units or so that you would want to place in 2015 to kind of get to that number? You're in the right ballpark.
Okay.
Okay.
And then Bill just a last question.
Looking at your ATM results for the year and as you sit back and reflect on it do you think you gained market share? And if so what regions do you think that occurred? I do.
I mean I think when you look at the results for NCR and we have not seen all of our competition yet but what we've seen so far would suggest we have gained market share in particular in Western Europe and in the U.S.
or areas where I would point to as key markets where we've gained share and in specifically the branch space overall.
Any further comments on that Andy? Yes I think that's right.
I think we are -- when you go to customer share and you look at specific countries it's very clear we're picking up share.
You look at us versus competition where take Western Europe as a great example we're talking about high-single low-double digits growth depending on whether you're looking at orders and revenue.
Our competitors are not nearly in that range.
You go to Canada you go to Middle East you go to Africa you go to the United States and each of these regions we're picking up material share.
And just to give you Kartik a bit more color on that just to break apart Russia from Western Europe.
On the full year 2014 we grew revenues in Europe Middle East and Africa without Russia by 17%.
In Q4 alone it was up 7%.
So you can see the impact that Russia is having on our total aggregate growth on the year and in the quarter but you can also see that when you take it out that we're having a solid performance and clearly show growth in those markets.
We'll take our next question from S.K.
Prasad Borra with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Firstly can we revisit the topic of synergies between the various divisions? What kind of back-end synergies do you have between Financial Services business and the Retail side? The question is around synergies across the divisions.
When I think about the synergies across the divisions I think about the 2 horizontal groups.
It's operations and the supply chain and then it's our services business.
Those are the 2 pieces that provide the synergies whether it's call centers whether it's the 5 manufacturing plants that's where we see the benefit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked about the Professional Services business and you mentioned $20 million of excess costs which you saw in third quarter.
When you say excess costs what was that particularly regarding? Is it the first phase of implementations which you did at some of those retailers not working out? And did you have to pay any penalties related to that? And when you think about say 2015 do you have a good number of say Phase 1 of the great deal of projects in the pipeline? I'll ask Michael comment in a moment but I want to clear something up.
The $20 million in excess PS costs is really a full year number not a Q3 number alone.
So it's a full year number.
Michael? Yes I think what we've seen here is we had efficiency gains as we've had a build an operation around centers of excellence which I thought we are not meeting the requirements of our customers and we are not big enough from a business point of view.
So that drove a lot of savings.
In terms of the projects I'm very positive about the projects.
That is also one of the reasons why you see a bit stronger H2 versus H1 in our trajectory because a lot of these projects have started will start are awarded are in the process of being awarded and have to be closed before peak season which depending on the country you're looking at starting in October or starting in November.
So a solid pipeline for PS and I anticipate PS and all of the other software-related businesses of Retail to again positively contribute to the mix of Retail P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And probably just the last one on Retail.
In the guidance of the 4% to 6% year-on-year growth you're expecting what kind of a spending environment are you expecting in Retail in general? Are you expecting the spending to improve in general? And you mentioned that some of the spending which got locked in the security segment that's probably coming out now.
Did you see signs of that in the fourth quarter itself? What I've seen is quite frankly a very mixed bag.
We have -- if you look into the U.K.
we have almost a price war being started by Tesco which is impacting the market there.
However even in this challenging environment you will see retailers in the U.K.
taking investments to catch up to show themselves as innovation leader or to rework the way how they do business.
We have a fantastic new store opening with one of our customers for a self-checkout concept where 70% to 75% self-checkout customers are targeted for the U.K.
with a very very positive feedback.
So you're going to see innovations still being driven and the market leaders in that innovation game in retail will track the others also into that whole bucket.
And as we said earlier now the priorities are already starting to shift back in North America as all of the decisions or almost all of the decisions on security EMV PIN pads and so on and so forth have been made.
We are back to "normal" in terms of user experience customer experience and how to improve the multi-channel experience of the end customers of our retailers.
And we will take our last question from Matthew Lipton with Autonomous Research.
Bill I just wanted to make sure I understood you right.
You made an interesting point about the guidance in Retail in particular and that sell and bill you're using a new formula.
I know when the guidance was cut on the third quarter call part of that was you felt the pipeline was -- the dynamics of the pipeline were changing.
So are you using the same methodology for 2015 that you had used back in 3Q when you made the guidance reduction in Retail? We are.
And what I would tell you is that what we're going to talking to you about in a future quarter perhaps maybe even Q2 is the -- one of the most important metric today for us is really no longer backlog per se or orders per se.
The reason that is is because orders and backlog the way we've described it to you in the past does not include key portions of the business.
For example does not include file value for services which is about -- on any given day about 25% of our business.
It does not include consumables.
It does not include any of the acquisitions if you will.
So what we're working on now is a really true backlog metric which would include legacy backlog as you know it plus SaaS ACV or think of it as file value for our cloud business plus file value for services meaning what dollar amount of service contracts do we have in the pipeline for the next 12 months? That will equate to probably over 90% coverage of revenue.
And we're beginning to look at that now more holistically and using that as well to refine our guidance.
And last one from me.
I guess it's probably for Andy.
I think a lot of people will be surprised that both the Branch Transformation revenues are coming from the products side.
When you think about it it might imply that you're actually taking some shares.
So is it your leadership position in multivendor software or the fact that you were the first to the market with that tablet-based strategy? And what are some of the things that you think might be allowing you to see outsize unit growth in Branch Transformation? Yes.
In terms of the things that are driving growth in Branch Transformation for us it's very much a -- I would boil it down to 3 things.
First of all we've got a very strong position on the software side that's been evolving towards a true omni-channel capability.
So that's the first thing that is resonating with customers.
The second thing is the combination of our hardware design and the service offer around that is very difficult to compete with.
And the scale that we have plays very well in each of our key markets.
So that's the second big thing.
And the third big thing is execution.
These are fairly complex programs that customers are looking at.
They have to trust who they're working with when they sign transformative contracts and they want to partner with somebody that they trust can execute both in terms of subject matter expertise schedule adherence and quality.
Those are the 3 reasons that we're winning.
And thank you all for joining us.
We'll see you in April.
Goodnight.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please stand-by we’re about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the NCR Corporation First Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gavin Bell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining our First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Joining me on the call today and offering opening remarks are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally available on the call today for Q&amp;A are Andy Heyman Senior Vice President and President Financial Services; Michael Bayer Senior Vice President and President Retail Solutions; and Paul Langenbahn Senior Vice President and President of Hospitality.
Our presentations and discussions today include forecasts and statements that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and in our periodic filings with the SEC including our annual report to stockholders.
On today’s call we will be referring to presentation materials posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures and other information concerning such measures are included in the presentation materials and in our earnings release.
These are also available on the Investor Relations section of NCR’s website.
A replay of the call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Bill Nuti.
Thanks Gavin.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
NCR got off to a good start in 2015.
Our total company Q1 financial results were in line with our expectations.
We faced increasing foreign currency headwinds as the quarter progressed which negatively impacted revenue by an additional 1% and NPOI by an additional $8 million versus the guidance we provided on our Q4 call.
I’m on Slide #3 which shows our financial results for the quarter.
Revenues were down 3% year-over-year due to the impact of FX and were up 3% on a constant currency basis.
Recurring revenues were 45% of our total revenues in Q1 which were down 2% from last year and up 4% on a constant currency basis.
Operational gross margin was 27.6% in Q1 which was a 100 basis points decrease or 75 basis points decrease on a constant currency basis.
Although product gross margins was negatively impacted by mix and FX headwinds our services gross margin improved significantly in the quarter.
We generated NPOI of $146 million which is down 6% as reported and up 6% on a constant currency basis.
Non-GAAP EPS came in at $0.43 in Q1 which was down 14% as reported and up 2% on the constant currency basis.
And lastly free cash flow improved by $75 million in Q1 to a positive $24 million which represented an encouraging start to the year.
The increase was due to improvements in cash flows from operations as well as lower capital expenditures and discontinued operations.
I’m now on Slide #4 which gives some details on software.
We grew software related revenues 5% in Q1 as reported which were up 9% on the constant currency basis this includes a strong expansion of our cloud revenues which were up 19% year-on-year.
So overall we made further progress expanding software in Q1 and this remains an area of long-term focus in each of our businesses.
Moving on to Slide #5 I want to take a few minutes to talk about exciting recent development in NCR the launch of Kalpana our cloud based ATM software platform.
Kalpana is a game changing innovation for financial institutions.
Businesses and consumers are increasingly turning to enterprise or cloud-based solutions that reshape security and enable fast nimble and dynamic customer experiences.
NCR Kalpana is consistent with this shift and delivers compelling benefits to ATM operators across key functional areas.
First Kalpana delivers channel integration by giving financial institutions the ability to provide a seamless omni-channel experience to consumers.
It’s flexibility also means banks can run a combination of Kalpana powered ATMs along with existing traditional ATMs as our cloud-based software blends into existing banking and IT infrastructure.
Second Kalpana delivers improved security.
All software updates are housed and controlled at the server-level.
This will reshape the ATM security landscape and help drive the elimination of malware.
Third Kalpana delivers improved speed.
Today ATMs operate on an outdated legacy PC architecture that is both inefficient and complex.
By transitioning ATM software and operations in the cloud new devices and services can be brought to the market up to twice as fast as before.
And fourth Kalpana delivers sizeable cost reductions as we enable banks to move away from existing technology.
In fact we believe we can reduce the total cost of ownership of a 100 ATM network by as much as 40% or over $500 000.
Overall Kalpana is consistent with our commitment to deliver disruptive innovation and omni-channel software capabilities to transform how financial institutions operate.
We are excited about the offering and how it will empower customers to deliver improved customer experiences as well as simplify their businesses.
Slide 6 shows the key highlights for Q1.
First improving execution across NCR will strengthen our position across our end-markets.
As I mentioned earlier FX headwinds increased throughout Q1 and we do not expect material improvement throughout the year.
In financial services our omni-channel solution portfolio continues to generate higher and differentiated demand versus traditional ATM hardware suppliers.
Financial institutions are increasingly looking to transform their retail distribution network using NCR technology to improve revenue and increased fixed cost productivity and improve the customer experience.
In addition we continue to see strong growth in our digital banking offers as well as improving average revenue per user driven primarily by increase in mobile users.
Lastly we’re beginning to see a meaningful shift in customer decision processes and buying criteria more towards financial technology companies which deliver omni-channel solutions versus point products.
While we’re not pleased with the result in retail solutions they are consistent with our forecast.
However we are pleased with the signs of momentum building including higher-than-expected year-over-year solution order growth customer spending priorities shifting back to omni-channel software and the signing of a major services contract that will begin to deploy in earnest during Q3.
Although revenue was lower than the prior year in Q1 as we mentioned on the Q4 call we continue to expect improvement in retail solutions in the second half of 2015.
And in hospitality higher software and cloud drove strong operating margin expansion in that business and we are pleased with our year-over-year improvement in this vertical segment.
Another highlight in Q1 was the growth in software and cloud that I mentioned including a solid year-over-year expansion in cloud revenues.
We also made progress strengthening NCR as an organization particularly through our ongoing sales and services transformation initiative.
One of our major goals this year is to optimize our go-to-market strategy to better align our people with our highest growth opportunities.
This includes empowering our sales and services organizations to be more productive and efficient and get closer to our customers.
During Q1 we continued to build a more software-driven hardware-enabled oriented sales organization while improving productivity and the efficiency in our services delivery.
Also I want to note that the restructuring plan that we introduced last year remains on track.
Lastly free cash flow was a highlight for the quarter and we generated solid year-over-year improvement in Q1 driving increased free cash flow generation with improved linearity remains a primary focus of that and then we’re off to a solid start this year.
In summary Q1 was a good start to our year as our financial hospitality and emerging businesses are all performing well with the retail business demonstrating key metrics around improved momentum.
We remain excited about the year and the opportunities that lie ahead.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Bob to review our performance by segment and our financials.
Bob? Thank you Bill.
I’ll start on Slide 7 which shows our Q1 operational results on an as reported and constant currency basis which Bill previously discussed.
We experienced unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations during Q1 with impacts of approximately $95 million in revenue $18 million in NPOI and $0.08 in EPS all higher than previously expected.
Revenue was higher by 3% NPOI was higher by 6% and non-GAAP EPS was higher by 2% all on a constant currency basis.
The next slide shows our Q1 GAAP results.
The decrease in GAAP results is primarily related to the restructuring plan and FX.
The restructuring plan charge included income from operations was $16 million in Q1 2015 as expected.
On Slide 9 you will see our financial services Q1 results.
On a constant currency basis revenues were up 9% due to improvements in the Americas Europe and Middle East/Africa.
Operating margin was up 20 basis points at 13.2% and up by 70 basis points on a constant currency basis.
The improvement was due to an improved mix of higher-margin omni-channel solutions.
Key market developments in financial services include solid performance across our major global markets.
This includes wins in North America and Asia-Pacific as well as outperforming the overall market in Europe.
This was offset in part by continued challenging conditions in China and Russia.
Bill highlighted for you the recent launch of Kalpana our cloud-based ATM software platform.
We are excited about the potential for Kalpana and are pleased of the market reaction thus far.
Next slide shows our retail solutions Q1 results.
Revenue was down 9% and down 4% on a constant currency basis due to reduced spending by retailers.
Operating margin was 3.6% which decreased 300 basis points on a constant currency basis.
Retail operating income was lower than the prior year in Q1 due to a less favorable mix of software-related revenue.
However as Bill mentioned we are expecting improvement in retail in the second-half of 2015.
We had positive order momentum in Q1 as evidenced by a number of key customer wins.
We continue to see improving demand for our omni-channel and self check out solutions.
We had a significant service win in Q1 resulting from our strong customer services execution.
Turning to the next slide hospitality revenues were up 1% on a constant currency basis driven by improvements in the higher-margin revenue streams offset by lower hardware revenue.
Software-related revenues were up 14% which includes cloud revenues up 24%.
Additionally cloud application sites increased 21%.
Operating margin performance was 12.2% up 410 basis points due to this favorable mix of revenue.
We saw growth in international software-related revenue which is up 33% year-on-year and continued to see progress in the North America SMB market with a 11% revenue growth and 21% software-related revenue growth.
Next looking at our Emerging Industries business on Slide #12 revenues were flat year-over-year and up 8% on a constant currency basis driven by a 6% increase in telecom and technology revenues.
Operating margin was 8.2% up 350 basis points driven by higher services margins.
On Slide 13 you can see the solid growth in cloud software license and software maintenance and total software-related revenue on an as reported basis.
On a constant currency basis cloud was up 20% and software-related revenues grew 9%.
Hardware revenue was down 5% as reported up 2% on a constant currency basis and other services which includes our traditional break/fix business was down by 5% as reported up 2% on a constant currency basis.
On Slide 14 you can see free cash flow for the quarter.
Free cash flow for Q1 2015 was $24 million compared to free cash outflow of $51 million in the prior year.
The $75 million increase in free cash flow was mainly due to improvements in cash from operations capital expenditures and discontinued operations.
We are reaffirming our full-year free cash flow guidance range of $325 million to $375 million in 2015.
Slide 15 is an update on the restructuring plan.
We incurred a pre-tax charge of $16 million in the first quarter of 2015 and expect to incur an additional $21 million to $46 million in 2015.
The cash impact was $16 million in the first quarter of 2015 and we expect to pay an additional $55 million to $70 million in 2015.
As far as savings generated we had $18 million of savings in 2014 an estimate approximately $70 million in 2015 and $105 million in 2016.
As previously communicated we expect approximately 50% of the savings to benefit NPOI with the remainder we invested in the business.
Slide 16 shows our net debt to EBITDA metric where we closed Q1 with a leverage ratio of 3.2 times significantly better than Q1 2014.
On Slide 17 we show our full-year 2015 guidance.
We previously expected unfavorable foreign currency impacts of 5% in revenue $50 million in NPOI and $0.20 per share in non-GAAP diluted EPS.
We now expect unfavorable foreign currency impacts of 6% in revenue $75 million in NPOI and $0.30 per share in non-GAAP diluted EPS.
Even with the additional unfavorable impact of FX we are reaffirming our full-year guidance.
Slide 18 shows our 2015 full-year revenue guidance by segment.
We are reaffirming our as reported revenue growth by segment.
We have updated our constant currency revenue by segment to reflect the additional 1% of FX headwinds.
On Slide 19 you will find our Q2 2015 guidance.
I expect revenue will be down roughly 3% to 4% compared to the prior year on an as reported basis which includes a negative FX impact of roughly 6%.
On a constant currency basis I expect revenue to be up 2% to 3%.
And finally I expect NPOI to be approximately $190 million to $200 million in Q2 2015 which includes a negative FX impact of roughly $20 million compared to the prior year.
Operator I’ll now open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our first question from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.
Yes thank you.
What are the operational offsets to the one point of additional revenue headwind and $0.10 of additional EPS headwind from currency this year? What’s allowing you to offset that additional headwind and keep guidance as you’ve reported three months ago? And then I have a follow-up.
Okay Katy what we gave this year as we gave a wider range of guidance on the top line and NPOI to allow for some additional volatility in FX.
So if you look at prior year’s guidance the range is a bit more tight so that would be the point one.
We have a wider range and we still feel comfortable with within the range.
Point number two would be we did have a good Q1 in order volume - solution order volume across all of NCR financial and retail in particular.
And that gave us some confidence here going into the back-half.
Okay.
And does - your comment about the wider range does that imply you’re more likely to be in the lower half given the currency headwind or is that not the case? No it is not the case right now.
I think that where the consensus is right now we’re quite comfortable with that and it’s very balanced.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up operational gross margin down 75 basis points ex-currency why is that not moving in the other direction given makeshift higher value solutions and software investments? Yes what we saw in Q1 with a 75 basis point down constant currency was services margins were strong they were up significantly in the quarter.
Our product margins were down and offset that increase.
Product margins were really based on hardware margin rates and that business can be lumpy.
It can be based on country mix influenced by country mix it can be influenced by large customers versus smaller customers.
So that’s what we saw in Q1 from a product and hardware perspective.
The other point I’d make would be that we did see in Q1 an unusually higher percentage of our software sales in both retail and financial being with third-party software.
It’s more one-time in nature and that kind of expected to repeat itself.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
We’ll go next to Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
I had a question on retail for the moment.
The business continues to be pretty challenged and I know you mentioned the dynamics that you think that work in the second-half for improvement.
But I wonder if you could talk maybe more directly about how those order growth opportunity - talk about priority shipping back and then the service contract? How does that breakdown when we think about self-checkout versus legacy register which I suspect is declining? And then Retalix which sounds like software that’s driving business through third-party and not actually where we want to be if you could highlight that a bit I appreciate it.
Hey Michael Bayer you may want to just jump in here and give your perspective? Yes I’m Michael Bayer speaking.
Coming back to your first point I really looked at the order performance as an indication for further shift back to the core platforms back to strong omni-channel demand.
We also have seen now that all of the major of waves and investments for PCI and for the readiness of EMV are done and we are seeing the discussions really going back to omni-channel and how omni-channel can drive commerce.
That was one of the major activities around the order performance and the order performance has also fell to a very highly appreciated backlog.
We talk about Retalix and we talk about third-party software the common bill made that has nothing to do with our Retalix business.
We had closed two very strong deals which implemented third-party software through us on a broader solution scale.
It is not in our traditional Retalix area.
For Retalix we see strong commitments after existing customers to the platform and we are on-boarding new on to those platform elements as we speak.
That’s it from my side any further clarification.
Well the other question I have is in the services contract that it sounds like it’s going to be a big part of the recovery in the back-half what is an example of that? Is this a multi-year service contract is it tied to software or is this a typical...? It’s a full in services contract touching all of the different businesses we provide to this particular customer.
And it’s rolling out as we speak and so as you on-board those customers you see the full benefit after you’ve on boarded all of their estates and we will be done with the on-boarding throughout Q3 and we’ll see the benefit then of the full contract implement - impacting our second-half.
I have to say that due to the strong performance we deliver with our services organization especially during the peak performance [Technical Difficulty] Q4 last year we’re seeing revitalization of our services business in the [indiscernible].
Okay.
And can I just ask one other quick question? One of your competitors in the ATM business in Europe clearly had some lot of the problems in the quarter.
You guys outperformed their numbers for sure.
I’m just wondering what is it that you think was the differentiation between yourself and them? Thanks.
I think one of our differentiations especially when it comes to Eastern Europe you are asking for right and Central Europe? Yes and this was more on the ATM side.
Oh sorry.
Okay.
Yes so I think what I will do is I’ll give you some perspective and Andy you can jump in.
But for a long time we have been working hard to help the investors in our company as well as the sell-side understand the fundamental differences in our strategic plans for the financial services business.
And I think for the first time.
We are beginning to see how different our company strategically and tactically we have set up versus that of what I would consider more of the older world point product providers.
Andy you may want to give some more color on that.
Yes I mean I think when you go back 2013 and which was only two years ago but in many ways it seems like more than a decade ago the need to financial institutions were - there were ways to address.
And one was just keep doing what you’re doing around physical channels i.e.
ATMs and self-service.
And other one was they have a much more software-driven transformative approach in terms of how impact our customers’ P&amp;Ls.
And we very publically made big investments towards revamping our solution portfolio to help them our customers to be more successful.
I think you fast-forward the first quarter and really we started to show up in the fourth quarter and there were some demonstrable significant differences between our competitors and us whether that be in the developing market or even the mature markets like Western Europe.
And so the results speak for themselves in terms of - we are well into double-digit growth in Western Europe while in an industry that’s growing at small single-digits.
So the result of that of course is competitors are flat to declining in these markets while we are increasing significantly both on the top line and the margin dollars.
So we are pleased and most importantly our customers are pleased with that as well.
Okay.
And I’ll just ask one more and then I’ll jump off.
Bob could you just clarify for purposes of everyone on the call the AR facility that you entered into in 2014 how are you flowing that through your cash flow statement? Thanks.
The AR facility - that was really a better way to finance then our revolver.
So we’re using our AR base to effectively borrow and that’s treated similar to the revolver as part of the financing cash flows.
So that’s part of financing.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Yes thanks for taking my question.
First of all would you mind I’m sorry if I missed this would you mind quantifying how much of the revenue in the quarter was attributed to third-party software and which part of the business was that and how much do you think you are going to get for the rest of the year? Yes I think Gil again I want to be very clear here that the - we had one significant transaction in retail with U.S.
Government that contains a high proportion of low margin software and that will not repeat itself in Q2 or beyond it was a good win.
We are happy to have the footprint in that space as well but we’re going to expect that.
And we have an unusual couple of deals in the financial again not significant but enough to retard the margin a bit for us.
Again we don’t expect those to repeat in Q2 and beyond.
So again I don’t have exact numbers but they were enough to impact margin rate along with what Bob mentioned in Q1 which was unfavorable mix on the hardware side.
Got it.
And then on the drop-down of the impact of foreign exchange the previous guidance was 5% top line $0.20 bottom line.
That’s a little less than 2 to 1 drop-down to the bottom line.
You are adding 1 point to the top line and $0.10 to the bottom line.
That’s more like a 5 to 1 drop-down to the bottom line at least 3 to 4 times.
Why is currency flowing down more to the bottom line? Should we expect that going forward if we see the US dollar strengthening more? Yes I would say what we’re seeing Gil or the way I think about it is on the revenue we’re seeing an impact of around 20% of NPOI impact on FX before we had it at closer to 16% 17%.
So in the kind of latest view we looked at the mix of the countries whether it’s Brazil or Europe and the flow-through as around 20% of the revenue impact from a NPOI perspective.
So I think that would be a good proxy to use going forward Gil now that we have a better sense of what the country mix is going to be.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
We’ll go next to Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
Hi.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You know as far as your guidance for the retail business I guess you’re expecting like you said a big big ramp and you have the contracts in place or at least the orders in place.
Can you just help us understand what the nature of the orders are? Is it basically to use slang is it money in the bank or is it something that we might see like last year where you saw some delays in the orders and just help us understand how confident you are in those numbers? Yes I think unlike last year and we are not really betting the form [ph] on the current quarter orders as much and by the way with three weeks in we are still feeling good about that.
So for me I feel really good about the over-performance in orders in Q1.
It was quite significant I mean it was a big order for retail so a big order quarter for retail.
And beyond that we have the large services win that we’ll begin rolling out in Q3 and Q4.
And would also say to be very candid with you Ian we’re lapping some easy comps in the back-half particularly Q3.
So the ramp for retail really is in the - it’s a back-half ramp but it’s really a Q3 story because if you look at their Q4 forecast right now it looks kind of more normal run rate growth.
But for Q3 looks outsized as a result of that lapping that easy comp.
Okay.
Thanks.
And I just wanted to step back maybe ask more of a philosophical question here but if you look at the business three different businesses explain to us or where is sort of your head and the way you’re looking at the businesses right now? Do they need to be together? Does it make sense maybe to not be together? Are there large dis-synergies if you think take them apart? Is it more value creating if you take them apart? Just what are you thinking here and just give us a little insight into the value of being together versus the value of not being together? Sure I’ll give you the short answer but I can spend four hours on the topic on this one with some bad jokes mixed in.
First I’d say that every industry we’re in is moving towards omni-channel software platforms.
And what we provide whether you’re a bank or a retailer or a restaurant is a common platform to deliver on the promise of omni-channel.
And so there is a lot of synergy from a technology point-of-view.
There would be if you pull the business apart significant dis-synergy.
For example all of my divisions share a common services delivery infrastructure around the world.
I don’t have a separate services business for retail and financial and hospitality.
All of them share a common supply chain infrastructure plants distribution centers and of course we get lots of value from that scale and they all share a common G&amp;A infrastructure as well.
So it would be very difficult if not value destructive to get to pull that apart.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to SK Prasad Borra with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A couple if I may.
Probably starting off with the service margins they’re definitely much better than expected.
What major changes have you made in the services segment to achieve those margins? We’ve been working hard the last two years.
If you go back two years ago you’ll remember me talking about services and investments.
That did impact negatively our profit in late 2012 in Q4 of 2012 and all of 2013 and to a lesser extent began to improve in 2014 and the late part of 2014.
Those investments were meant to drive higher productivity and more efficiency of delivery.
And all of those programs are now beginning to kick in and beyond that there are positive impacts of those investments as not just we can expect higher margins in services but also better customer loyalty.
Our customer set has improved significantly in the last few years and I’m really proud of the team overall because that’s driving customer orders and more revenue as a result.
When you compare say Q3 of 2014 to now is it just a case of timing of lot of these investments actually seeing some tangible improvement or delivering some value or you would say it’s largely execution on lot of the projects that are undertaken then? Almost exclusively execution on the projects we began to undertake in 2012 and the tangential good news is that I also expect our services revenue to begin growing at a faster rate in the back-half of the year and into 2016.
Okay.
That’s clear.
Just on the retail segment can you probably describe what the competitive landscape is in the retail segment across various segments whether it’s self-checkout or Retalix? And with regards to your own investments you have talked about a lot more focus on software.
Can you talk about 1900 personnel which you’re recruiting how much of that or how many of those personnel would go into retail and specifically focused on software? Yes I think that the transformation of retail has been probably for us the most choppy in the last few years but of course made more challenging by very challenging end-market and set of conditions there particularly last year going into Q3.
I’m feeling a lot better about the current state of the retail business internally.
And I’d say that one of the major external factors that impacted us negatively was our customers pricing off more of their capital for data privacy for PCI compliance which has to be done by October and all of the terminals they needed to buy at the front-end which we don’t sell to accomplish both PCI compliance and as well as EMV upgrades.
In Q1 and I kind of pointed to this in Q4 as well we began to see a shift of time and attention and now business coming to us and a focus on omni-channel and software and services.
That’s a good sign.
My client meetings have all been far better than they were in July and August and mainly September of last year.
They’re going to be more positive and certainly there’s lot more focus on what we do at NCR.
Retalix is actually doing quite well internally.
We have - there’d be more to talk about there on the July call relative to some announcements coming out about new solutions.
But Retalix has not been a significant challenge for us in the market or on the top line for our profitability-wise.
Hardware slowed down significantly for us as a result of the data privacy focus and move towards PCI.
That really impacted us quite negatively and so that’s beginning to come back as did self-checkout was also is looking quite promising on the year right now.
Michael any other comments from you? Hey Bill I’d like to add to your comments in self-checkout.
What we are seeing now is that we are not only defending our leadership position we are also on the forefront of opening new markets.
A couple of announcements yet to come where we still need to wait for the final customer approvals but you’re going to see us with significant rollouts in markets where self-checkout has been introduced so far which gives me a high confidence that we will be able to establish our market leadership there.
And in the whole European market where we see a trend now back into Convenience our new product which we launched end of last year a small version that card-only only self-checkout which you put into a normal checkout lane is picking up nicely and gets real interest from a lot of the customers we have and also prospects who have not been our customers so far in continental Europe.
As there is almost - the UK remains a bit challenging.
Those of you who follow the market and have seen the recent announcements and the quarterly results of the big retailers in the UK can draw your own conclusions.
But overall the market is going into the right direction for us.
So in that do you guys feel confident about achieving a high single-digit growth rate in retail in second-half based on your order book? Yes I do.
Michael you may want to comment on your end.
Yes as I said before I think we touched those points but let me reconfirm them.
Our Q3 is “easy comparison ” as it was a bad quarter for us last year.
Order book looks good the order velocity looks good.
The backlog has dedicated rollout schemes associated to it.
We’re talking about rollout schemes which have been signed off to deliver revenue this year.
So overall we keep the guidance.
That’s all from my end.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
Yes hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Despite the weakness that one of your competitors has seen in Europe I see that you’re raising your constant currency guidance for financial services today.
What changed since your prior guidance? Are you picking up market share? Yes Meghna there’s no question we did pick up share in the last quarter as well.
But by the way just to put some numbers to this for all of NCR EMEA Europe Middle East and Africa for us grew constant currency 6% in Q1.
It was a really good quarter despite the FX headwinds and when I take Russia out of the equation we grew 9% as a corporation in all of EMEA in Q1.
Western Europe as Andy said is doing really well.
Andy you may want to give more color on NCR versus the competition and why we’re gaining share? Yes we talked about it a little bit earlier but just to expand on it in Western Europe the market conditions has been tough for customers in terms of them really trying to eke out profit growth through pretty flat or declining revenues given their situations.
So they need technology increasingly software driven technology that helps them with things like lowering cost per transaction.
And a lot of our investments that we have made in the last couple of years from a software perspective both organically and with some acquisitions have played very well into them now having tools to take out costs through moving transactions from higher costs channels to lower cost channels while at the same time having a seamless consumer experience.
That message lowered our track record for delivering results to those customers has led to fairly material double-digit growth for us in Western Europe offset of course by the geopolitical situation with Russia which gets you to Bill’s comments on 9% constant currency growth.
Thank you Andy.
And then also moving onto branch transformation do you still expect to generate an incremental $100 million in revenue this year or could we see an upside to this number? I think Meghna that… Yes sorry Bill.
Yes so for branch transformation for us first of all this year is going to be a great year.
The question is how good and frankly it comes down to customer adoption speed.
There is not a customer we talked to that is not convicted around their desire to move as fast as they possibly can within their environments to transform your branches.
It’s helpful as they build out new branches where they can lower their square footprint and reduce operating costs that way as well as take out operating costs from a labor perspective and keep their branches open longer.
Those are the drivers for our customers.
And then when it comes to our solutions we’re considered by our customers globally to be the leader to help them to do that.
So the nine-figure kind of growth we’re expecting that you mentioned we feel very solidly on track for.
Could there be upside? I would say where I say right now this is a long-term play from a serious sustainable growth perspective.
I wouldn’t see a tremendous amount of revenue upside this year.
There could be significant order and backlog upside this year where it would give us even more confidence in our - in exceeding our models in 20016 and beyond.
And Meghna on that point in Q1 order growth for branch transformation and financial was up 58% year-on-year.
Thank you.
That’s very helpful.
And just last question on my side what’s the number one priority for the company today to enhance shareholder value? And could we see a potential announcement of a share buyback or dividend once we - once you reach your target leverage ratio? The number one priority for us is to continue to execute do what we said we’re going to do.
We’re coming off of Q3 last year.
We were not happy about that myth to be very candid with you.
And our goal right now is to continue to execute and not surprise our investors negatively at all.
We feel really good about Q1 - I’m sorry confident in Q2 and the full-year and we’ll continue on that track.
Now of course there are number of priorities vis-à-vis strategic execution and tactical execution beyond that but I think that’s point one.
Could you see something from us vis-à-vis a share buyback or dividends? We’re currently undergoing as I’ve said on previous calls an entire review of all of our strategic alternatives.
And right now we’re deep into that process and the answer would be of course you could but until we’re ready to report something we’ll hold off on giving any particular guidance on that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Good afternoon Bill.
Bill I wanted to ask you about ATM pricing and what kind of pressure you’re seeing and if this year is any different than years past? This is my 10th year here and it’s a great question because especially in light of some of the challenges of our traditional hardware competition.
The answer to your question would be not really the environment still is quite competitive in the emerging markets it always has been.
So we tend to see lower margins in the emerging and developing countries that’s not change.
And by the way when we have a higher mix of those countries in our revenue you see it in our gross margins not unlike what you saw in Q1.
In a developed markets because we’re so differentiated today and our hardware is attached to an end-to-end software solution with somewhat more protected a bit from the hardware the hardware degradation you might see in an RFP.
We’re not completely insulated by the way but we are able to protect our hardware margins now as a result of packaging hardware in a larger end-to-end solution play including software digital banking and services.
So in the developed markets it’s less of an impact.
I think we need to give this issue a quarter or two more and see how the competition reacts before I can give you more feedback on that.
So Bill when you model or when you’re giving out guidance what type of degradation do you assume on an annual basis for the ATM hardware and then service business? We tend to look at price erosion of 5% to 7% in that range.
And our job is to outrun that and to reduce our costs on a BOM basis bill of materials by more than that to maintain margin.
But we see typically 5% to 7%.
And then just one last question Bill.
You talked about the common service platform which you are able to leverage across all of your platforms.
When you mentioned that is it just that the person servicing either the ATM business or retail business is the same or is there more to it than just that infrastructure and does it get more complex and deeper when you look at the service business and your ability to leverage it across your platforms? All right.
It’s a lot deeper than that Kartik.
For example all of customer engineers we have about 11 500 people who are badged NCR employees who repair our equipment.
All of them use common systems for dispatch common logistical infrastructure for delivery of parts common systems like the tools that are provided to do their jobs and reduce share on calls.
So a CE who fix this in ATM can also fix a self-checkout device.
And by the way they’re not that different from each other.
They both have similar cash dispensers and so on they are not quite that different.
Well thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
Yes.
Thank you.
And we’ll go now to Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
This is Paul Chung on for Coster.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A question on Kalpana does the introduction of Kalpana disrupt sales of prior generation ATMs and does it reduce visibility into second-half as customers evaluate the software? Andy do you want to take that one? Hey Paul Kalpana we burst Kalpana two years ago or conceived Kalpana two years ago and just came to market with it this month.
And the design of it was because there is many markets around the world despite our leadership position globally where we wanted to be even more competitive to grow our available market many places in India in China even in core Western markets where we were not cost competitive from a TCO perspective.
So we launched Kalpana with a focus on significantly reduced total cost of ownership for our customers with significantly improved security with the goal being to expand our available market.
So fast-forward to now we signed our first contract and we’re in the midst of many more right now.
And there with companies that traditionally the only way we could do business with them was for call it a negative 20% to 50 margin kind of business which of course meant that we walked away from that business.
So fast-forward to right now and we’ve got a fast growing fund around Kalpana that in most places is net new for us.
So that’s kind of where we look at things.
To the extent that their situations where it would be a replacement cycle for current customers we would look at that is additive from a margin dollar perspective.
So we feel quite good about our position right now with Kalpana.
Gotcha.
Thank you very much.
And then on Digital Insight can you guys confirm revenue operating income monthly average users and where do you see growth trending there? Thanks.
Yes we’re not giving specific guidance any longer on DI.
However I can tell you that DI is performing above our internal plans and expectations and really has been really important add-on and inorganic investment in the omni-channel space for us and really is making a difference for NCR.
I can tell you also that I think it’s in the prepared presentation.
We have a great year in terms of growth of digital banking users.
So it was a really super year in terms of growth there.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s question-and-answer session.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference back to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Well we’re looking to schedule an Analyst Day you should all be aware of that sometime in Q3.
Gavin will be talking to all of you about that.
We look forward to that and I also wanted to thank you for attending today’s call.
Have a great night.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please stand by.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the NCR Corporation's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gavin Bell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining me on the call today and offering opening remarks are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally available on the call today for Q&amp;A are Andy Heyman Senior Vice President and President-Financial Services; Michael Bayer Senior Vice President and President-Retail Solutions; and Paul Langenbahn Senior Vice President and President of Hospitality.
Our presentations and discussions today include forecasts and statements that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and in our periodic filings with the SEC including our Annual Report to stockholders.
On today's call we will be referring to presentation materials posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures and other information concerning such measures are included in the presentation materials and in our earnings release.
These are also available on the Investor Relations section of NCR's website.
A replay of the call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Nuti.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Gavin.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I am pleased with our second quarter results which were in line with our expectations.
We have reached the midpoint of 2015 and remain on track to achieve our full-year goals despite the increased pressure on revenue and profitability from foreign currency headwinds from our initial 2015 guidance.
The NCR team has executed well this year and I am particularly pleased with the progress we've made towards becoming a software-driven hardware-enabled company.
This progress is evident in our results culture in our management system and the talent we've been able to attract.
Turning to slide number three which shows our financial highlights for the quarter.
Q2 revenue was down 3% compared to last year due to the impact of FX but was up 4% on a constant currency basis.
Recurring revenue now represents 42% of total revenue and was down 3% on an as-reported basis compared to last year but up 3% on a constant currency basis.
Operational gross margin in Q2 was 29.1% which was down 90 basis points primarily due to an unfavorable mix of revenue.
Q2 NPOI was $202 million which is above our guidance range of $190 million to $200 million.
NPOI was down 4% on an as-reported basis but up 4% on a constant currency basis.
Non-GAAP EPS was $0.66 in Q2 which was down 3% as reported and up 6% on a constant currency basis.
And lastly our free cash flow execution and results continue to improve.
Free cash flow increased $92 million in Q2 compared to last year to $95 million.
For the first six months of the year free cash flow is $119 million compared to a free cash outflow of $48 million in the first half of 2014.
As you know increasing free cash flow and improving annual linearity are key areas of focus and I am pleased with our progress this year.
And now on slide number four which provides some more detail on our software-related revenue growth which was down 1% as reported but up 3% constant currency.
Year-to-date software revenue was up 2% as reported and up 6% constant currency.
Within our software revenue streams we saw continued momentum in cloud growth up 9% constant currency year-over-year.
Software-related revenue continues to grow faster than our other revenue streams.
While it's been by design over the medium to long term consistent mid- to high-single-digit software-related revenue growth will continue to positively impact our top line margins and free cash flow.
On our last call we talked about the launch of NCR Kalpana our cloud-based ATM software platform that transforms how financial institutions operate and makes running their business easier.
Kalpana is one example of our commitment to helping our customers significantly lower their total cost of ownership through disruptive innovation.
Slide number five shows our latest disruptive innovation in the retail market.
NCR Retail ONE just announced in June to over 700 customers at our Synergy conference is a powerful software platform designed to help retailers implement omni-channel and stay relevant in their industry.
NCR Retail ONE is an intelligent open commerce hub and integrates retail applications and back-end data sources to deliver the next generation of productivity gains and consumer experience innovation to the retail market.
Retail ONE can be implemented via a public or private cloud implementation enterprise on-premise software license or a hybrid of both.
We believe the open nature of the platform is particularly important as it gives retailers tremendous choice and flexibility.
NCR Retail ONE can mix and match software applications from NCR our partners retail applications and even third parties which means that solutions can be easily and seamlessly deployed.
Recent research showed that 86% of the retail community plan to implement a unified commerce system in response to the connected consumer and the rapidly changing shopper experience.
However of that 86% nearly half are saying that they are struggling to integrate legacy systems across channels.
Retail ONE enables gradual migration which solves that problem and allows retailers to differentiate their businesses and the shopping experience they provide consumers without expensive transitions from legacy infrastructure.
In addition to the platform innovation of Retail ONE we continue our partnership in the go-to-market application development and security areas with Intel Microsoft and Cisco as well as other key partners.
Overall we are excited about the launch of Retail ONE and the value it offers retailers of all sizes as they continue to bridge physical and digital channels and offer flexible payment options from physical to online to mobile.
Lastly slide number six shows our key highlights for Q2.
First Q2 was in line with our expectations and we experienced improved stability and balance across our businesses.
We are at the halfway point of the year and remain on track to achieve our goals for the full year.
Our Financial Services business continues to generate solid results.
Our order growth was again up in Q2 and backlog supports improved revenue growth in the second half of the year and into early 2016.
Our Branch Transformation solutions and CxP software portfolio continue to drive significant demand and we remain confident in these trends.
In Retail we continue to be encouraged by improving industry dynamics.
Those signs including improved execution helped us achieve higher-than-expected order growth in Q2 after a very strong Q1.
Order growth was bolstered by a large self-checkout win in Europe.
This shift in customer spending priorities is gaining further traction and we are optimistic that momentum in Retail Solutions will be maintained in the second half of 2015.
We're optimistic about Retail ONE and the positive early response it has received in the market including from industry partners.
We're also excited about our ongoing leadership in self-checkout.
As the latest RBR report states NCR shipped more SCO units in 2014 than all other vendors combined and this was the fifth consecutive year we accomplished that goal.
We also increased our share of electronic points of sale technology including and for the first time ever reaching the number one market share position in North America.
Hospitality had a good quarter that included solid operating margin expansion due to higher software revenues driven by cloud growth.
Hospitality continues to improve the foundation of their business while marching forward on their strategic plan.
Software revenue growth across NCR was another key highlight for the quarter particularly our cloud revenue growth.
We have also further advanced our efforts to build a better NCR.
The transformation of our sales and services organizations is delivering results and our restructuring initiative remains on track.
We are also pleased to announce that the Securities and Exchange Commission after a lengthy review stated it does not plan to recommend an enforcement action related to a previously disclosed investigation concerning certain aspects of our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Finally free cash flow is tracking well ahead of last year and we are focused on continuing to drive free cash flow growth and NERP (12:12) as we move through the rest of 2015.
In summary I am pleased with the second quarter and by the improving execution across NCR.
Before turning it over to Bob for the financials I want to take a moment and let everyone know we will be hosting an Analyst Day at the New York Stock Exchange on September 15.
It has been some time since we held an Analyst Day and we think the time is right to meet all of you in person and continue having a dialogue about NCR and our strategic vision.
I certainly hope that all of you can join us and hear from not just myself and Bob but the rest of our executive team as well.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob to review our performance by segment and our financials.
Bob? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thank you Bill.
I'll start on slide seven which shows our Q2 operational results on an as-reported and constant currency basis which Bill previously discussed.
We experienced unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations during Q2 with impacts of approximately $110 million in revenue $16 million in NPOI and $0.06 in EPS all roughly in line with our previous expectations.
Revenue was higher by 4% NPOI was higher than 4% and non-GAAP EPS was higher by 6% all on a constant currency basis.
The next slide shows our Q2 GAAP results.
The decrease in GAAP results is primarily related to the noncash settlement of a pension plan in the U.K.
which I will cover in more detail on slide 15.
Additionally the restructuring plan and FX also contributed to the decrease in GAAP results.
The restructuring plan charge included in income from operations was $8 million in Q2 2015.
On slide nine you will see our Financial Services Q2 results.
On a constant currency basis revenue was up 1% due to improvements in the Americas Western Europe and Middle East/Africa offset by declines in Russia and China.
Excluding Russia and China revenue was up 4% on a constant currency basis.
Operating margin was down 60 basis points at 14.6% and down 40 basis points on a constant currency basis.
The decline was due to a less favorable mix of revenue in North America and Europe and lower revenue in Russia and China.
From a solutions perspective our Branch Transformation revenues were up 140% during the quarter led by North America and Middle East/Africa.
We added a number of wins for our Cx Banking and Payments software driving Enterprise Software growth of 20% in the quarter on a constant currency basis.
Additionally our digital banking user growth continues to reach record levels due to increased sales capacity and Net Promoter Score.
Our New Services offerings are gaining traction to support customer needs for higher availability efficient infrastructure costs and reduced risks.
The next slide shows our Retail Solutions Q2 results.
Revenue was flat as reported and up 7% on a constant currency basis due to increased spending by retailers in North America and Europe.
Operating margin was 8.3% and decreased 100 basis points on a constant currency basis.
Retail operating income was lower than the prior year due to a less favorable mix of revenue in North America and was up significantly as compared to Q1 2015.
Key developments for Retail include the spending shift back towards omni-channel solutions which gained further traction in the quarter.
We are expecting improvement in Retail in the second half of 2015.
We experienced positive order momentum in Q2 after strong orders in Q1 including a major new self-checkout win in Q2.
We also continued to demonstrate our global leadership in self-checkout and are pleased with becoming number one in point of sale in North America for the first time ever according to RBR.
In addition we are excited about the recent launch of our Retail ONE omni-commerce platform.
Our Connected Payments software solution continues to drive strong cloud revenue growth and we saw sequential growth in managed services revenue driven by the successful onboarding of one of our top customers.
Turning to the next slide.
Hospitality revenue was up 4% on a constant currency basis driven by improvements in the higher-margin revenue streams offset by lower hardware revenue.
Software-related revenue was up 11% which includes cloud revenue up 23%.
Additionally cloud application sites increased 18%.
Operating margin performance was 15.7% up 220 basis points due to this higher software-related revenue including cloud and professional services revenue.
In Q2 we launched Orderman7 to the U.S.
market.
We saw growth in international software-related revenue which is up 12% year-on-year.
And we continued to see progress in the North America SMB market with 8% revenue growth and 18% software-related revenue growth.
Additionally we continued our focus on managed services by adding menu maintenance offerings for franchisees of Quick Service brands.
Next looking at our Emerging Industries business on slide 12.
Revenue was up 2% year-over-year and up 11% on a constant currency basis driven by an increase in Telecom and Technology constant currency revenue.
Operating margin was 11.5% up 910 basis points driven by higher services margin.
On slide 13 you can see the solid growth in cloud revenue on an as-reported basis.
On a constant currency basis cloud was up 9% and software-related revenue grew 3%.
Hardware revenue was down 2% as reported up 6% on a constant currency basis.
And Other Services which includes our traditional break/fix business was down by 6% as reported up 2% on a constant currency basis.
On slide 14 you can see free cash flow for the quarter.
Free cash flow for Q2 2015 was $95 million compared to $3 million in the prior quarter.
On a year-to-date basis free cash flow was $119 million compared to a free cash outflow of $48 million in the prior year.
The increases in free cash flow were mainly due to improvements in cash from operations lower capital expenditures and lower discontinued operations.
As a result of our strong first half of the year we are increasing our full-year free cash flow guidance range from $325 million to $375 million to $350 million to $400 million in 2015.
Slide 15 is a summary of our recent UK London pension plan transaction.
This transaction is something of a milestone as it completes Phase III of our multi-year pension de-risking strategy.
Our de-risking strategy focused on plans which posed the largest enterprise risk to the company and over the past few years we have been working to either shrink or terminate them.
We announced the start of this UK transaction several quarters ago and in Q2 we successfully settled the transaction by transferring the plan to an insurer.
This was our largest international plan and transferring it reduces our global pension liability by about 19% and helps our cash flow by reducing our recurring international cash contributions.
We estimate that we will have saved approximately $100 million in projected plan contributions that we otherwise would have made over the period from 2014 to 2017.
This transfer also benefits and reduces risk to the over 5 000 plan participants that are either current or former employees.
As a result of this settlement we incurred a non-cash GAAP charge of $427 million or $2.51 per diluted share in the quarter and recording an offsetting decrease to prepaid pension costs in the June 30 balance sheet.
Slide 16 is an update on the restructuring plan.
We incurred a pre-tax charge of $24 million in the first half of 2015 and expect to incur an additional $15 million to $40 million in 2015.
The cash impact was $30 million in the first half of 2015 and we expect to pay an additional $41 million to $56 million in 2015.
As far as savings generated we achieved $18 million in 2014 and estimate approximately $70 million in 2015 and approximately $105 million in 2016.
As previously communicated we expect approximately 50% of the savings to benefit NPOI with the remainder reinvested in the business.
Slide 17 shows our net-debt-to-EBITDA metric where we closed Q2 with a leverage ratio of 3.1 times.
This was benefited from our strong free cash flow generation in the quarter.
Slide 18 shows our full-year 2015 guidance.
We are reaffirming our full-year revenue and non-GAAP guidance.
We have updated our GAAP income from operations and GAAP diluted EPS guidance to include the impact of the UK London pension plan noncash settlement charge.
We have increased our free cash flow guidance to $350 million to $400 million.
Slide 19 shows our 2015 full-year revenue guidance by segment.
We are reaffirming our revenue growth by segment.
On slide 20 you will find our Q3 2015 guidance.
I expect as-reported revenue will be in the range of $1.63 billion to $1.65 billion.
This includes a negative FX impact of roughly six points compared to the prior year.
Revenue is expected to be up 5% to 6% on a constant currency basis.
I expect NPOI to be negatively impacted by roughly $17 million of FX.
Based on the midpoint of the range NPOI growth is expected to be up 5% on an as-reported basis and up 14% on a constant currency basis.
Now I'll open up the call for questions.
Up first you'll hear from Paul Coster JPMorgan.
Yeah thanks very much.
Inevitable question but can you give us some color regarding the ongoing strategic review and also reports in the press that you are in negotiations with private equity on an LBO? And I have a quick follow-up.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Paul.
I will not comment on the latter just to say that the strategic alternatives review is – remains underway and we expect that process to conclude in the near future.
Ahead of the analyst event do you think? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Quite possible yes.
Okay.
All right.
And then my other question really is just on orders.
I didn't really sort of pick up the themes somewhat in Retail and Financial Services.
Can you just sort of give us a little bit of color about orders? I know that it's more difficult to get visibility from – in the financial services sector these days but what can you tell us Bill? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so let me give you a little bit of color.
I was quite pleased with orders in Q2 as we were in Q1.
I'll have Andy and Michael also contribute but the high points Paul are that on a currency-neutral basis Financial was up year-over-year about 6% and Retail was up about 13%.
So Retail had a really strong Q2 again in orders but it was partially – a good guy was really a big win we had in Europe in self-checkout as well but even without that the numbers would have been quite good.
But Andy and/or Michael I'll go to you Andy first.
Any color on orders for Paul? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah it's Andy first with Financial Services.
I would just add to what Bill said.
We had a really good quarter in orders and when you look at the underlying fundamentals Russia and China have been fairly significant headwinds for us and when you normalize for those two they were probably about a 600-basis-point impact so call it 13% order growth right around there for the rest of the world FX-neutral.
So a really good quarter in terms of order and backlog growth for Financial Services.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Michael for retail? Yes as you already mentioned we had a strong quarter in Q1 and we saw continued strength globally on the order front and that was also already in Q1 my statement supporting the growth in the second half of the year.
Due to our order versus recognition policy we will see this additional roll-out and these additional revenues to materialize in the second half.
Even on an as-reported like-for-like basis we have grown year-to-date high single digits and all of that just underlines performance back to natural spending of our retail customers.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Paul the only other two comments I'd make are two important metrics we track.
In Financial Branch Transformation orders were about 100% year-over-year on a big number so that was quite a significant growth in Branch.
And self-checkout orders were up 46% year-over-year.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Next up we'll hear from Ian Zaffino Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi great.
Thank you very much.
Just drilling down a little bit more on the Retail business the big self-checkout win was that with a new customer or is that an existing customer that just re-upped? And if you could give us a little bit more color on that that'd be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Ian.
I'll let Michael give you some more color but the answer quickly is it was a new customer win.
But Michael some more color on that? Yeah It was new and we will be able and allowed to disclose it publicly after we finish the installation which is supposed to finish early November.
And it was a replacement of the biggest customer of one of our competitors.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So you replaced another competitor's self-checkout machine with your own self-checkout machine? Or is it an assisted checkout machine replaced with your own self-checkout? No it's a complete competitive replacement and expansion of their self-checkout strategy.
So we will not replace like-for-like; we will replace with different colors in terms of user – usage of the self-checkout card-only and combined as well as the high intensity of the self-checkout in that particular customer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then just following up Bill on your comment about the bank Branch Transformation new business and new wins was that business related to new locations opening up with your new machines? Or were they pulling out old machines and replacing them with your new machines? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Andy why don't you comment on that? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah think of it less as new branches although there is certainly a percentage but it's a small percentage of the order growth related to new branch openings.
It's more additive to an ATM fleet or a replacement of a portion of an ATM fleet within existing branches.
So that's the vast majority of the growth that Bill was mentioning in terms of order growth for Branch.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Good quarter.
Good to see the cash flow coming in.
Thanks a lot.
Take care.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Ian.
Next up is Gil Luria Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks for taking my question.
The software business decelerated in the quarter even the tip of the spear the cloud is only growing high single digits the rest low single digits.
What is it that slowed that business down? Are there any temporary factors you think will reverse themselves going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Gil.
I'm quite enthusiastic actually about software growth on the year.
In fact the current forecast for Q3 software growth is extremely healthy.
I think if you look back to Q2 I would just say it's a matter of being a bit lumpy.
That business still I was quite pleased with the cloud growth of high single digits.
I expect cloud to continue to be high to low double-digit growth for the foreseeable future and I would expect that for the full year we'll be in the high single-digit growth range for software-related revenue.
So we feel good about that right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Then in terms of China can you give us a sense of where we are compared to the peak? What year did that business peak and what's the year going to be like in terms of China relative to that peak? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Andy why don't you take that one.
President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Sure.
In terms of China if you go back in time and look at say 2012 2013 it was in the $170 million to $180 million range in both of those years and I think the peak was 2013 at the mid-$180 millions.
And so you kind of fast-forward to today and it's a business that this year is going to be closer to $100 million or so so it's been a significant decline in China.
As we look ahead there's quite a bit of activity going on.
First of all there's been significant government shifts in terms of what has to be purchased from local providers.
That's created a large number of local competitors and a lot of activity that's happening there that's affected so much the revenues that we're looking at right now in terms of our declines.
We do believe both for China and Russia that should normalize as we head into the first quarter of 2016.
And then specifically in China we have several activities underway that have been underway since late last year for going local building a local brand with partners to not only stem the declines but also with a much more software-driven strategy build a new normal for us in terms of growth rates.
But that's where we currently are Gil.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then last question on pensions I just want to go through the impact because it sounds like you're going to add $427 million to the underfunded status.
You talked about estimated cash savings.
Were those already included in your guidance? And then the pension expense increase of 15% – of $15 million is that the income statement the one you back out of NPOI? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So the improvement in cash flow Gil is already included in our estimate of pension contributions for the year.
Then you had a question on the $15 million of expense.
Yes that is P&amp;L so that's income statement.
That is included in our pension expense guidance this year.
That number's around $10 million this year for pension expense.
And one thing that's nice about this particular transaction with it being the end of Phase III we will be moving to a more traditional operating income metric next year.
So this idea of NPOI where investors are trying to figure out what the P stands for think of us moving toward a more traditional operating income and also focusing more on EBITDA next year.
And then you had another question Gil on the underfunded is that right? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
The $427 million gets added to the $168 million that you ended the last year? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's exactly right.
So we finished last year at the $168 million.
Add $427 million; that means at the end of Q2 we're close to $600 million underfunded.
That's what we spoke about two quarters ago that we were headed in that direction.
But think of that as being two-thirds the U.S.
plan and one-third Germany.
Inc.</span></strong> So too early to congratulate – can we congratulate you on the completion of Phase III? Are you done with a multi-year journey of cleaning up pensions? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I will take that congratulations Gil.
We've been working long and hard.
We started this process three to four years ago.
Phase III does mark the culmination of our work on pension so I appreciate the congratulations.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you.
From Morgan Stanley we'll hear from Katy Huberty.
Yes.
Thanks.
First a clarification I just want to go back and make sure I understand the timing of the big self-checkout deal that you've brought up a couple times on this call.
So the majority of the revenue would hit in the calendar fourth quarter of this year? Is that correct? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> (36:13) The majority – oh sorry.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead Michael.
Majority will hit in Q3.
I've taken some of the revenue in June but not fundamental.
It will finish it in October early November.
Okay.
And when you talked about the recovery in Retail as you went through this year were you thinking that this deal would come through? Or is this incremental to the recovery that you had talked about last quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead Michael.
Well we of course worked at this win for quite some time.
We started the detail work of such a win it takes 9 to 12 months so we started that in Q4.
But there was also recovery in Russia.
We quite frankly have had good performance in Russia from an order point of view which will also turn into revenue second half again on the self-checkout front.
We have one pilot with all of the five leading retailers in Russia.
We see more and more interest also in Latin America.
So we continue to lead with a strong self-checkout portfolio with the strong value proposition of our self-checkout software.
As you will also see that our portfolio is expanding to have self-checkout units for card-only self-checkout in convenience stores.
And as Bill mentioned before that in combination with quite some significant wins for POS hardware roll-outs those orders made the good performance and will positively influence our second half.
Okay great.
And then in Financial Services we have talked in the past about the weakness in Brazil and China so that's not necessarily new.
There were some comments about weaker mix in North America.
Was there something that surprised you in the developed markets this quarter in addition to the emerging market weakness? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead Andy.
President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> The way Katie I think about that right now is larger banks in the second quarter made up a higher proportion of our revenues in the developed markets.
That's the simple math on it.
And we see that normalizing as we exit the year.
So that's the phenomenon in the second quarter that occurred.
Okay.
All right.
And then maybe a question for Bill and Bob.
If I just take a step back you've driven this mix shift towards software-related revenue over the last couple of years.
And when we look at the gross margin line ex-currency it dropped by 100 basis points.
Can you just talk about some of the offsetting factors that are limiting gross margin expansion as you go through this mix shift in the business? Thank you.
And that's my last question.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah no doubt that driving more software as a piece of total revenue is important in terms of driving gross margin rate expansion.
We look at the margin by product which includes the hardware piece of our business as well as services.
The services margin is improving nicely and that reflects the recurring revenue stream and a lot of the work that we're doing in services including higher-value managed services.
And each of the divisions can speak to that as well.
Within the product piece that moves along with hardware.
And hardware margin rates can be influenced by bigger roll-outs in a particular quarter that might have lower margins.
And that can often reflect the purchasing power of a particular customer.
So I would say hardware margins can move around.
Actually when I look ahead and look at what should be a record number of new product introductions over the next year or so I'm confident that hardware margins will continue to improve.
The good thing about new products is that you have an opportunity to take cost out of new products to improve the gross margin rate.
So that's really what we're seeing in terms of pressure on the Q2 margin rate.
Michael or Andy did you want to talk a little bit about some of your managed service piece of the business and how service margins are improving? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah I'll jump in first Michael and then you can follow.
Just a couple things on margin.
First of all I do think as we normalize the mix that we talked about earlier in terms of larger bank smaller bank financial institutions becoming a greater percentage I think that'll impact the margins positively as we look at the outer quarters.
Specific to Bob's point about managed services it's a business at NCR that historically had not invested in new service offers for quite some time.
We came out with about eight new service offers either brand new ones or refined ones.
And that's going to make up in terms of backlog of services in the back half of the year it'll make up about half of our growth.
So we're looking for about 300 basis points of growth just purely from the new service offerings.
So if you think about cash management services as financial institutions are more concerned about rate hikes that's a growing area of interest and wins that we're seeing on cash management and managed services.
And then also on security services we had a huge win in the Middle East on security services where we're doing a full end-to-end security management for a financial institution there.
So we're seeing a lot of interest on the new offers around managed services.
Yeah let me just add to what Andy said.
We have started our journey to offer and drive more managed services offerings in Retail roughly 12 months ago.
We had since then some substantial wins.
And we have just finalized or are still in the final steps of finalizing the on-boarding of one of our biggest customers in the managed service arena.
We see more and more demand and we are not even responding to that demand we are proactively driving that demand where we look into what some of our customers call front of the house or we would call it in-store managed services where we incorporate all technology of any third party from view of (43:14) NCR in the shop and we would service all of that and we would maintain all of that.
And in some of the cases that expands to help desk capabilities that expands to back of the house and distribution centers.
And the customers are more and more interested to leverage our services performance and services power which we can give them in 180 countries around the world being a major differentiator in the marketplace.
So there is continuous growth for Retail.
There is continuous broadening the scope and we are investing in that area together with our services organization.
Thank you for all the detail.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Katy.
I'll give you just a few more comments on margin.
To your point the mix shift we've been able to drive has really given us a lift over the last several years.
I expect margins in the back half to be up call it 20 bps to 25 bps year-over-year with a strong Q3.
And I do expect us to continue to be able to drive meaningful margin expansion similar to prior years in 2016 and beyond.
The one factor this year as well that has impacted us has been FX.
So on a standalone basis going into 2016 if some of the FX were to moderate it could be quite a good year on the margin front for us.
Thank you.
Next up is Dan Perlin RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
I just wanted to go back to this large managed service client in Retail.
Have you recognized any meaningful revenue in the current quarter? Or is that still going to come in the back half? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So a couple of comments on this particular customer.
This is a very large win for us that we had in Q1.
And there's no doubt that we're going to see a lift on a year-over-year basis in Q3 Q4 and Q1 of next year on this client.
Michael any other thoughts on that besides those comments? No.
I think you handled it perfectly Bill.
I would just leave it that way for the time being.
Okay.
So it sounds like it's still going to come.
Andy I had a question for you about the North American mix the shift towards large financial institutions rather than small.
I can understand that it bounces around a little bit I just my question is what does that tell us – or is there something indicative about the cross-selling opportunities that we saw in the current quarter around kind of DI which is clearly tilts towards more mid- and small financial institutions and I think was a big part of the incremental growth driving part of the story long-term? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yes it's a good question.
First of all NAMER North America for us was up north of 10% on a really tough compare.
They had a big second quarter last year another big second quarter this year so it's a really strong business for us right now.
Backlog is also growing significantly.
And in terms of the mix between the larger versus the smaller financial institutions again a lot of that is related to what was going on a year ago and as we look right now into the back half we see based on the funnel a really good shift back towards what we call our norms where the smaller bank and bigger bank there's more balance between the mix there.
Specific to Digital Insight and how we've integrated the product offerings and the sales force we continue on that journey.
The cross-sell last year blew away the business case.
This year again it's blowing away the business case on a similar percentage.
Think of it as 40% to 50% ahead on the cross-sell.
So the message to the customers continues to resonate it's a growing stream and so we remain really confident in a business that's got a lot of momentum.
What can you tell us about the incremental profitability to the machines you're selling today? I think in the past you've indicated that the software-embedded components of the machines you're selling are I think you said 40% more today than they were a year or two ago.
Does that still hold? Has it gotten better has it gotten worse? Has it changed internationally versus domestic? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Right.
Yeah so probably what you're referring to would be the solutions that are sold within Branch Transformation portfolio which last year for us products and services was about $130 million.
This year what we've said is we'll add about another $100 million or so to that so we're right on plan for that for this year.
And we see a really strong quarter – I'm sorry – a really strong year for Branch Transformation.
The margins within that yeah you're looking at margins that would be quite a bit higher than our traditional margins.
Think of it as call it another 20% higher.
So if we're in the 20% to 30% on any given deal in traditional products we'd be into the 40% to 50% range on Branch Transformation portfolio.
So you're exactly right with your 40% comment if not on the low end there.
The last thing I'd say on margins just in general is you're talking about on the machine side but on the enterprise software side which is the biggest part driving our growth the enterprise software in other words software that's sold not attached to any machine sale that business is up north of 20% for us right now.
The licenses in the quarter for that up over 30% so we're having a huge year on the enterprise software side and we don't see an end to that kind of growth as we look ahead.
That's great.
President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> And that'll have a big impact obviously on margins as it continues to grow faster than the rest of the revenue streams.
Okay.
I just had two housekeeping questions for Bob.
One is I'm just trying to understand the driver behind the fourth quarter spike or jump up in your Other Expense and Income.
Even at the low end of the range that would imply a pretty significant ramp for that number to get you to $215 million on the low end.
And then the last is you're still sticking to like it looks like 175 million shares for 2015.
Is that an indication that you're hiring some people in the back half of the year? And if you are what kind and where would they go? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
On the Other Income and Expense we were certainly encouraged by the number in Q2.
It was roughly $46 million compared to our guidance of $55 million.
In Q3 we guided again to $55 million but you know the lesson we learned last year is not to be too aggressive with the FX rates.
So I would say we've got some room for improvement there.
We certainly look like we're headed towards the lower end of the OIE range for the full year but we're just trying to be a bit cautious there because volatility in FX can move that number.
Hopefully you're right and there is some upside there.
I would not read too much into the 175 million of shares.
I would say that could end up a little bit lower but it really doesn't reflect increased hiring.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from S.K.
Prasad Borra at Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Probably to start off can you elaborate on what are the strategic alternatives or what are the options you have at your disposal? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You know on prior calls I've talked about the full range of strategic alternatives that we as a board routinely look at everything from returning capital to shareholders in the forms of dividends or buybacks to divestitures of businesses that are non-core to spin-off alternatives of businesses that are also non-core to a full sale of the company to a host of other items.
So I would say that as a board annually we do a really good job of looking at everything and all of those things therein.
And we've been particularly diligent this year around all of them and as I said earlier we should be concluding that process shortly.
Okay.
Probably just one question on pensions.
Can you please update on what the state is of the net pension obligations? Is Phase III the last big phase of addressing the pension issue or is there anything else after that? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No that's really it.
The Phase III marks the end of our pension journey.
So basically the guidance that we've given in terms of the pension contributions of $30 million to $35 million for this year includes all of the work that we've done.
And probably just the last one.
From a competition point of view as you're expanding your services portfolio across both Financial Services and Retail has your competitive landscape changed much? And is it pretty intense? Do you have to compromise on the margins or do you think actually it's a better margin profile and you can net-to-net expand margins? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> A couple of things I'd comment on and then maybe Andy and Michael have some additional views.
But at the enterprise level one of the accomplishments amongst several in the last year that we've had is we can now see in our funnel as a result of investments we've been making for a long period of time a fairly strong growth of our services business going into 2016.
Now the mix of that is also changing.
We have built and developed and now launched a set of new offers in the market that are more managed-services based and they are lower cost to deliver kinds of services that leverage our fixed-cost infrastructure.
So one of the things I'm quite enthusiastic about going forward right now is our services growth going into 2016 the mix shift that will begin to occur as a result of higher margin offers and some of the successes we've had early on in our journey there.
Andy or Michael any further comments there? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah it's Andy.
Let me just jump in real quick and then hand it to Michael.
If you think about – first of all we are not interested in just any managed service.
What we're interested in is managed services that leverage our assets whether it be our infrastructure assets or our software assets.
And just to pick one example which is around cash management we can deliver cash management as a license we can deliver cash management software as a SaaS subscription offering or we can deliver it as a managed service offering.
And so in a managed service offering a customer is looking to build business processes to help them reduce their dependency on cash optimize their cash in their network and reduce logistics costs associated with cash deployment.
Our software does that really well.
And then for banks or other financial institutions not able to put the right business process around that then we can add an additional service around that so when we're leveraging these assets the margins go from anywhere from the 20% to 30% for traditional maintenance break/fix services we can add 10 to 15 to 20 points onto that when we're leveraging our software assets.
That's where we're seeing a lot of new offer and the growth on managed services.
I think I talked already around our managed services growth but as Andy was mentioning the cash management that was also a new offering we brought to a much broader audience in our self-checkout units as we've incorporated cash management software on a broader scheme and with a much more analytics around it throughout the last 12 months to help our customers to reduce the cash in all of the self-checkout units they have and combine it with a cash management for the store.
We also have expanded our offerings into protective services and in the whole security and security analytics for our customers.
So driven all of that by a strong service coverage as I mentioned before is giving us the possibility to extend service offerings for existing customers or to both for new customers which might not necessarily have a big footprint of NCR but given our services offerings and the broadness of our third-party portfolio which we can handle we are a very competitive and interesting partner.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I would like to bring in maybe Paul Langenbahn into this discussion who runs Hospitality for us.
First of all Paul has done a great job in his role and has really brought a level of stability back to Hospitality a level of high performance to that team.
Both Bob and I couldn't be more pleased with his software-related revenue growth his cloud growth and how well that business is now positioned for growth and margin expansion long-term.
But Paul is also working on a plan around services expansion.
Paul maybe you could make a few comments there? NCR Corp.</span></strong> Sure Bill.
I think it's largely the same story.
It's where the intersection of the assets and the capabilities the company has with a market need and ways we can add value in the market.
One example that's sort of an analogue to the cash management model in Financial Services is around menu maintenance.
So we have software that controls all of the menu maintenance which is the items and the recipes and the prices and so on and so forth across a network of point-of-sale systems.
And when you look at for example large heavily-franchised quick-serve restaurant brands the franchisor in most cases cannot or will not set the pricing for the franchisees.
And the franchisees often don't have a lot of infrastructure they don't have big IT staffs they don't have a lot of administrative support often in their businesses.
And there's tens of thousands of sites that are already customers of NCRs in this space.
So one of the things we've been able to do is using our cloud-based menu management software is actually package up a managed service around that where we're able to very efficiently do that work for thousands of quick-serve restaurant franchise locations.
So that's one example.
There's other examples where we're leveraging capabilities.
For example a companion product to one of our SaaS offerings is actually deploying a managed firewall as a managed service to secure a small business or a franchise location's network inside their store to make their network more secure.
And we have thousands of sites now that have signed up for that service as well.
So there's a few examples where we're really leveraging the assets of the company to add value for our customers.
And those things tend to be not only very good for our customers but very high-margin services for NCR.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Meghna Ladha Susquehanna.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Most of them have been answered.
But can you talk about the competitive environment as it relates to the Financial Services business? Which markets are you specifically gaining share and why? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Andy? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah as we look at share we're watching obviously closely the competitive reports from who is publicly traded and then we have good checks in the field for others.
It looks like right now we're gaining share in most markets.
The exception would be when there's competition where we're seeing some irrational pricing in certain markets that we feel like is one-time in nature.
We've seen it a little bit in parts of Europe we've seen it in parts of Asia we've already mentioned what's going on in China.
So those would be the ones I would call out.
Thank you.
Next up is Matt Summerville Alembic Global Advisors.
Hey guys.
I want to spend a minute talking about free cash flow.
Can you guys remind me how you're being incented going forward on free cash versus how you were incented in the past? And specifically Bob maybe what you're doing to improve linearity and how we should think about the sustainability of linearity.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Matt.
Welcome back.
And so we are now about 40% of the bonus of all of the management team at NCR is currently linked to free cash flow targets.
We had that bonus scheme in place as well last year for the first time and this year.
And Bob won't toot his own horn so I will for him.
He's been doing a lot of communications and training hand-to-hand combat if you will with every employee around the importance of free cash flow what role they're playing.
Bob rolls out a video every quarter to every employee in terms of training with regard to free cash flow the impact it can have.
And I also want to compliment my team.
Certainly when you are compensated on free cash flow it draws more attention to it perhaps.
But all of them have engaged in working with us to drive a better free cash flow story not just in aggregate but also linearity by quarter.
Bob? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah maybe I'll just say a few things.
Luckily I don't star in the video every month.
The employees would get tired of seeing me.
But I will pick up on your linearity point Matt.
We felt confident in increasing the free cash flow guidance for the year really because we're trying to optimize every line within the free cash flow equation.
So in terms of some of the legacy issues if you look back in Q2 of last year we were paying for 100% of the cleanup of the Fox River.
In Q3 of last year we ended up getting a contribution from the partner who's also in the River.
So now we're under a situation where we're getting paid on a timely basis on Fox River.
We've spoken about pension contributions those are down significantly year-on-year.
We talked about driving more software and that higher gross margin really helps my free cash flow.
The CapEx is down significantly.
So we have a program in place where we look at the capital we attach business cases to it the capital needs to earn a hurdle rate over our weighted average cost of capital.
And so we've been effective in terms of driving CapEx improvement.
Cash tax rate we're all over that in terms of driving a low cash tax rate.
And then really a focus on working capital optimizing inventory turns as an example.
But linearity is key.
And so when we talk about these videos on a monthly basis it's not the finance team it's really the business team so operations trying to drive linearity across the business.
And when we talk about linearity it's not necessarily from Q4 to Q1.
We're talking about months in the quarter.
So we're trying to drive more orders and more revenue earlier in the quarter so my team has a opportunity to collect that cash.
So a lot of work around linearity.
There's more room for improvement in that space but it does help working capital to have all of the employees focused on that.
And then just as my follow up you talked a bit about how we should think about margins in Retail and the ATM business.
Can you also just maybe comment second half of the year how we should be thinking about Emerging Industries? I know it's a small piece of your business.
And then Hospitality as well relative to where you were at in the first half.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah we've been very pleased with Emerging Industries.
Again two-thirds of that business is very much of a services business within the Telecom and Technology space.
And again at this time last year we were on-boarding a number of challenging customers.
And we've worked our way through that.
Think of Emerging Industries as having hit kind of a low-double digit operating margin that there's no reason why they can't kind of continue at that clip in Q3 and Q4.
When I think about Hospitality Paul is close to a 16% operating margin and he should continue to improve in the back half as he drives more cloud and more software-related revenue.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'll hand things back to Mr.
Nuti for any additional or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to seeing you at the upcoming Analyst Day in September.
Goodnight.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We would like to thank you all for your participation.
Please stand by; we're about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the NCR Corporation Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gavin Bell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining our third quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining me on the call today and offering opening remarks are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally available on the call today for Q&amp;A are Andy Heyman Senior Vice President and President-Financial Services; Michael Bayer Senior Vice President and President-Retail Solutions; and Paul Langenbahn Senior Vice President and President of Hospitality.
Our presentations and discussions today include forecasts and statements that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and our periodic filings with the SEC including our Annual Report to stockholders.
On today's call we will be referring to presentation materials posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures and other information concerning such measures are included in the presentation materials and in our earnings release.
These are also available on the Investor Relations section of NCR's website.
A replay of the call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Nuti.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Gavin.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We had a solid third quarter as consistent execution by the NCR team generated results in line with the outlook we provided in July.
We achieved these results in the face of a worsening currency environment continued challenges in China and Russia and more volatile capital markets.
Despite these headwinds we drove solid performance across our businesses and remain on target to achieve our full year goals for earnings and free cash flow.
Our growing $1.8 billion software and cloud business global diversity of industries and markets along with great employees and partners are the keys to NCR's success.
Turning now to slide number three.
Q3 revenue was down 2% on an as-reported basis.
This was lower than the revenue guidance we provided on our Q2 call due to an additional $30 million of negative FX headwinds during August and September.
On a constant-currency basis revenue was up 5%.
And at the end of Q3 recurring revenue represented 42% of total revenue up 8% constant currency.
Operational gross margin was 29.4% in Q3.
This was up 50 basis points compared to last year primarily due to higher software revenue.
Q3 NPOI was $218 million up 7% on an as-reported basis and up 15% on a constant-currency basis.
Non-GAAP EPS was $0.78 up 16% as reported and up 25% constant currency.
Free cash flow an area where our investors have been looking for continued progress has been a great success year-to-date.
And we are on track to achieve our updated full-year guidance.
Free cash flow excluding $93 million in recoveries related to the Fox River in Q3 2014 was up $67 million compared to last year.
We have generated $225 million in free cash flow year-to-date which is an increase of $141 million compared to the first nine months of last year.
I am now on slide number four where I'll review our Q3 and year-to-date software-related revenues.
Software-related revenue was up 5% on a constant-currency basis year-over-year and continues to grow faster than our other revenue streams especially our cloud business.
Our growth in cloud remains a high point in our overall results where constant-currency revenue is up 7% in Q3 and now up 12% year-to-date constant currency.
Growing our software related revenue streams remains a top area of strategic focus as we look to improve our overall margins in a rapidly expanding available market for software and cloud solutions.
Finally on slide number five I'll spend a few moments running through some of the key highlights for Q3.
Our results for the quarter were driven by our global leadership in our verticals along with solid execution across NCR.
This includes operating margin expansion in each of our businesses.
Currency volatility along with China and Russia continue to be our primary challenges but we are navigating through them.
Our Q3 earnings were in line with our outlook and we've remained on track to achieve our full-year goals.
Other key highlights include the performance of the each of our businesses which were generally balanced with the exception of Financial Services who was taking the brunt of FX and the China-Russia impact.
That being said we don't want to mask the solid performance of this division when you exclude China and Russia where Financial Services delivered 3% year-over-year constant-currency growth.
Our Financial Services business continues to generate strong demand in important strategic areas such as software cloud branch transformation and security application offers.
In retail we are encouraged by the moderate improvement in the industry dynamics in particular retail spending and how those dollars are being allocated.
Growth in Q3 was promising with revenues up 14% on a constant-currency basis.
I am generally pleased with Retail's performance to-date this year and we'll continue to innovate and provide solutions to our Retail customers and enable them to run their businesses more efficiently to enhance flexibility and omni-channel solutions.
In Hospitality higher software and cloud revenues once again drove year-over-year operating margin expansion and 8% constant-currency revenue growth.
This business has made significant progress over the past several quarters and we are pleased with the trajectory going forward.
Another important highlight is our total software revenue which was up 5% on a constant-currency basis during the quarter with continued strong growth in cloud and important wins across our verticals.
We've made additional progress executing our transformation to a hardware-enabled software-driven company.
We also continue to build a better NCR through sales and services transformation and our company-wide restructuring efforts while benefiting these initiatives.
Finally strong year-to-date free cash flow places us well ahead of last year.
In summary we had another important and solid quarter and are on track to achieve our full-year targets.
I am pleased with the execution of the NCR team.
We are driving growth across all of our businesses and are focused on finishing the year strong.
Finally with regard to recent industry consolidation we believe the merging of legacy hardware businesses is a good thing for our industry and an important validation of the business strategy we embarked upon five years ago.
NCR is a highly diversified global business providing a suite of omni-channel solutions and services to customers in a variety of industries including financial services retail and hospitality.
As a true omni-channel solutions provider in financial services NCR unlike its ATM competitors bridges all banking channels and is actively helping top financial institutions around the globe transform their businesses into asset-light technology-heavy enterprises that engage with their customers both physically and digitally.
In short we feel extremely well-positioned and we'll continue to stay laser-focused on our customers and strategic execution.
Now I will like to turn the call over to Bob to review our performance by segment and our financials.
Bob? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thank you Bill.
I'll start on slide six which shows our Q3 operational results on an as-reported and constant-currency basis which Bill previously discussed.
We experienced unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations during Q3 with impacts of approximately $120 million in revenue $17 million in NPOI and $0.06 in EPS.
FX impact on revenue came in higher than originally expected with an additional $30 million of headwinds from our guidance at the beginning of the quarter.
Revenue was higher by 5% NPOI was higher by 15% and non-GAAP EPS was higher by 25% all on a constant-currency basis.
The next slide shows our Q3 GAAP results.
The increase in GAAP results is primarily related to the impact of the restructuring program recorded in Q3 2014 as compared to Q3 2015.
The restructuring plan charge included in income from operations was $12 million in Q3 2015 and $127 million in Q3 2014.
On slide eight you will see our Financial Services Q3 results.
On a constant-currency basis revenue was flat due to improvements in the Americas South Pacific and Middle East Africa offset by declines in China and Russia.
Excluding China and Russia revenue was up 3% on a constant-currency basis.
Operating margin was up 50 basis points at 16.5%.
The improvement was due to a favorable mix of revenue and expense management.
We remain focused on profitability through our transformation initiatives mix shifts and operating margin expansion.
We continued to see an increase in our branch transformation revenue which grew 94% year-over-year led by North America.
Constant-currency backlog position grew double digits driven by branch transformation and CxBanking but along with this inherently slower conversion rates are affecting short-term revenue.
And finally industry consolidation as Bill mentioned is signaling positive indicators for future demand.
The next slide shows our Retail Solutions Q3 results.
Revenue was up 7% as reported and up 14% on a constant-currency basis due to improvements in all regions.
Operating margin was 8.2% and increased 330 basis points.
Retail operating income increased from the prior year due to higher revenue including more software-related revenue and expense management.
The retail market continues to show signs of improvement with some regions experiencing slower growth and additional FX headwinds.
We are having success gaining new competitive key accounts globally and we received the Supplier of the Year award for outstanding service from the Australian supermarket Coles.
Lastly we are pleased with the positive reaction our Retail ONE omni-commerce platform is continuing to receive from the market and our customers.
Turning to the next slide Hospitality revenue was up 8% on a constant-currency basis driven by improvements in the higher-margin revenue streams.
Operating margin performance was 16.9% up 80 basis points due to this higher software related revenue including cloud and professional services revenue.
We continued to see success in the SMB market with 4% revenue growth and 8% software-related revenue growth.
We are pleased to report that we have deployed 40 000 application sites in the managed SaaS application family which includes 9 000 Pulse Real-Time application sites.
Software-related revenues continue to drive growth for our Hospitality business which are up 20% on a constant-currency basis in Q3 2015 which includes cloud revenue up 25% on a constant-currency basis.
Next looking at our Emerging Industry business on slide number 11 revenue was up 2% year-over-year and up 11% on a constant-currency basis driven by an increase in telecom and technology constant-currency revenue.
Operating margin was 10.8% up 90 basis points driven by higher services margins.
On slide 12 you can see the solid growth in cloud revenue on an as-reported basis.
On a constant-currency basis cloud was up 7% and software-related revenue grew 5%.
Hardware was down 5% as reported up 4% on a constant-currency basis and other services which includes our traditional break/fix business was down by 1% as reported up 7% on a constant-currency basis.
On slide 13 you can see free cash flow for the quarter.
Free cash flow for Q3 2015 was $106 million compared to $132 million in the prior quarter.
Excluding $93 million in recoveries related to the Fox River in Q3 2014 the increase was mainly due to higher operating cash inflows.
On a year-to-date basis free cash flow was $225 million compared to a free cash flow of $84 million in the prior year.
We are maintaining our full year 2015 free cash flow guidance range of $350 million to $400 million.
Slide 14 is an update on the restructuring plan.
We incurred a pre-tax charge of $36 million in the first nine months of 2015 and expect to incur an additional pre-tax charge of $20 million to $28 million in Q4 2015.
The cash impact was $51 million in the first nine months of 2015 and we expect to pay an additional $20 million to $35 million in Q4 2015.
As far as savings generated we achieved $18 million in 2014 and estimate approximately $70 million in 2015 and approximately $105 million 2016.
As previously communicated we expect approximately 50% of the savings to benefit NPOI with the remainder reinvested in the business.
We continue to evaluate additional opportunities in connection with this restructuring plan and we'll consider implementing initiatives that would generate incremental savings for the company.
Slide 15 shows our net debt to EBITDA metric where we closed Q3 with a leverage ratio of 2.9 times.
This was benefited from our free cash flow generation in the quarter which has allowed us to achieve our year-end goal of under three times leverage one quarter earlier than expected.
Slide 16 shows our full year 2015 guidance.
FX headwinds continue.
Full year revenue headwinds of approximately $420 million are now expected higher by $65 million from guidance in July and $120 million from beginning of the year guidance.
NPOI's FX headwinds are still expected to be $70 million to $75 million up $20 million from the beginning of the year guidance; and EPS FX headwinds are $0.10 higher than the beginning of the year guidance.
We are decreasing our constant-currency revenue guidance to 3% to 4% due to continued challenges in certain developing markets and slower backlog rollouts pushing into 2016.
We are narrowing our NPOI range to $830 million to $840 million at the lower end of our previous range primarily due to the lower revenue and the additional $20 million of negative foreign currency impact from our beginning of the year guidance.
Additionally we are narrowing our non-GAAP EPS range to $2.70 to $2.80 which is at the high end of our previous range due to other expense effective tax rate and share count being lower than previously expected.
This guidance now includes an expected OIE of $204 million a tax rate of 24% to 25% and a share count of 173 million.
Slide 17 shows our updated 2015 full year revenue guidance by segment.
We now expect Financial Services to grow 1% to 2% on a constant-currency basis down from prior guidance due to continued challenges in China and Russia and slower backlog rollouts.
We now expect Retail Solutions to grow 5% to 6% Hospitality to grow 5% to 7% and Emerging Industries to grow 5% to 7% all on a constant-currency basis.
On slide 18 you will find our Q4 2015 guidance.
I expect as-reported revenue will be in the range of $1.687 billion to $1.717 billion which includes a negative FX impact of roughly 5% compared to the prior year.
Revenue is expected to be flat to up 2% on a constant-currency basis.
I expect NPOI to be negatively impacted by roughly $19 million of FX.
Based on the midpoint of the range NPOI growth is expected to be up 7% on an as-reported basis and up 15% on a constant-currency basis.
Now I'll open up the call for questions.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our first question from Paul Coster from JPMorgan.
Well first of all it's nice to see another decent quarter but of course the question which everyone will be asking is what about the strategic review; what can you say about that please Bill? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Paul.
First of all I appreciate the kind opening.
On the strategic review Paul that is ongoing.
We continue to comprehensively look at all of the alternatives we have as a board.
We are balancing both running the business responsibly and to your point making our commitments while also again with a lot of rigor looking at every single alternative we have and really giving it enough time for analysis and review.
So it is ongoing; I anticipate it will be ongoing now for the next few months and we'll see where it lands.
But right now there's been no change in that particular analysis.
Bill does it have to come to a point of completion or are there items that may fall out of the strategic review that can be executed upon along the way and I'm particularly interested in Bob's comments about restructuring and how there may be some additional restructuring opportunities ahead which didn't sound like they were part of the strategic review but I suspect there's some relationship there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Paul.
You will likely see some aspects of the strategic review fall out into our near-term actions and we can't get into that on the phone today but certainly if there is a smart thing for us to do we're going to do it.
Is there an official ending to the process? I think the answer is yes.
But again I would tell you my learnings out of this is the following: one when you take on that kind of a project it's a 15-hour workday and a lot of weekends so that you can responsibly run the business.
And secondarily the depth to which one needs to go for each alternative to give your board a thorough view is a lot of analysis.
It will not stop our board however from taking immediate action on areas that make sense and one of them Paul may be some amount of additional restructuring.
One of the benefits for Bob and I of going through the process has been we've had access to a number of exceptional resources that have looked inside of our company at a level of depth that would normally cost us millions of dollars of consulting fees that I think fortunately for us we didn't have to bear; and we're going to take their advice in some circumstances but make sure it makes sense for the business.
And we may decide to extend the restructuring initiative in Q4 and Q1 but we're not quite there yet.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Ian I would say to that point is we are definitely focused on fast-payback opportunities that are attractive to investors.
As we continue to focus on higher margin higher growth opportunities end-of-lifing products as an example those continue to be areas – how do we become more efficient.
That's all work that continues to be done and we wanted to leave open the opportunity that if we did see some attractive fast payback opportunities that would be available to us.
Okay great.
Thanks.
I'll hop back on the queue.
We'll go next to Ian Zaffino from Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi great.
Thank you very much.
Question will be on the pushout of the backlogs.
Is that just an emerging markets phenomenon or are you seeing that in the developed markets and maybe what areas of the business are you seeing that in? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Ian.
It really is primarily in the Financial Services area so I'll ask Andy Heyman to comment.
Andy? VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi Ian.
In terms of where the backlog right now is a little slower than normal.
And just to give you some statistics on this we had earlier in the year anticipated some reduction in the typical backlog conversions based on our contracts were increasingly in the areas of higher branch transformation commitments higher enterprise software commitments and higher areas in terms of our refreshed ATM fleet called the 80 series.
And we had planned in the back half of the year for about a 50-basis-point reduction – I'm sorry a 500-basis-point reduction in a typical backlog conversion.
So think of that as entering a quarter if you've got $800 million of backlog where there is 50% conversion we had planned it for about 500 basis points less.
What we're seeing is about a 1 000-basis-point less conversion because of those three areas.
There is a higher percentage of more innovative products in the queue right now.
The customers continue to try to get ready for if you will as they come out of R&amp;D into the implementation cycles and those go through typical certifications that can have delays; there could be some R&amp;D areas where we're tightening up et cetera.
So that's what's led to slower conversions.
And as we look into next year we think we'll start to revert to the mean but that is what's causing the backlog delays that you're seeing right now.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then next question maybe be more...
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I would add just to that point.
Sorry Ian I would add to that point Andy that the backlog growth – constant currency is up double digits going into Q4 and I expect it will continue to be strong going into 2016 so while it's rolling out more slowly because of the focus on these more innovative solutions the backlog growth is there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a great point Bob.
Thanks.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then I guess the follow-up question will be – maybe this is a semantic question.
But when you talk about strategic alternatives and maybe where we're heading towards it seems maybe like a restructuring is most likely.
So given the advanced stages of this process is it still appropriate to call it strategic alternatives.
Because like I said it would stimulate something probably larger than just a restructuring.
And again maybe we're talking semantics but I guess my definition or I think most people's definition of strategic alternatives would be greater than just a restructuring of what's just a cost cuts or a realignment of some product offerings.
Maybe if you could help us understand that a little bit better or what your definition might be? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I apologize.
And – if it came off where we were giving you the impression that the ongoing review would only result in additional restructuring.
If that were the case we would shut it down and move in that direction.
That is not the case.
All of the – the areas that I have previously gone over with you are still under review and possible outcomes well beyond just restructuring.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
That's great.
Thank you for the clarification.
I appreciate this and...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
No worries.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll go next to Meghna Ladha from Susquehanna International Group.
Hi.
This is Hamza Fodderwala in for Meghna Ladha.
I wanted to get a sense of – you had cited headwinds from Russia and China of roughly I think 200 bps earlier this year in your guidance.
What exactly accelerated the weakness here? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Andy can you take that please? VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
The – in terms of Russia and China they each have unique situations in terms – if you're referring to what's causing those headwinds.
In China what we've seen is a significant tightening under the government's secure-and-control mandate to reduce spending the banks are allowed to invest in with companies that build systems outside of China that have R&amp;D that are not indigenous to Chinese companies.
So that has caused banks to significantly reduce spending with companies that are not Chinese companies and instead point it towards local companies.
So that's really accelerated the headwind in China.
In Russia a very different story.
First of all the macroeconomic conditions in Russia have been very challenged for local financial institutions there and then second of all we have a lot of contracts in U.S.
dollar in Russia.
And when you have a contract in U.S.
dollar as the dollar has strengthened significantly over the last 18 months it's made it much more difficult for a financial institution in Russia to be able to afford our solution.
So it's a bit of a double whammy that's going on in Russia right now.
Okay.
And then just to follow up I know you mentioned obviously a potential merger between a couple of your competitors.
Just wanted to get your sense on the landscape should this transaction go through and do you think it could help stabilize the pricing environment in Europe? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll make a couple of comments and then ask Andy to give his point of view.
First of all I think on the surface the strategic rationale of two legacy ATM providers coming together actually makes very good sense especially given that there really isn't a lot of geographic overlap for their market presence so on the surface I think it makes sense.
Now both of their CEOs have talked about the importance they place on investing in software in cloud in digital banking and using the combination perhaps to build a balance sheet to be able to invest in where customers in the market that they serve and we serve are going.
Now of course we've been through that process for the last five years so we have a unique point of view on that.
I think the challenge for them if there are challenges are obvious to all of us in that a merger of that size is extremely difficult to pull off and I don't envy the geographic proximity issues the cultural differences between the two companies the product overlap issues that they'll inevitably have to face in choosing which product lives and which product does not.
The services infrastructure issues that they'll have to face.
Clearly the issue around where they decide to make cost cuts in terms of employees and R&amp;D and there's a lot of fundamental issues that could if they do not execute well slow them down in a market that's moving very very fast.
So again on the surface I think it's a good thing.
Relative to the challenges for us of course we are now with many of our acquisitions and the assets we have behind us where they want to go laser-focused on innovation moving forward in a rapid fashion and I think putting ourselves into a great position in the market.
Andy any other comments? VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me say a couple of things in – at an enterprise level obviously one of the companies has a retail business.
So I want Michael Bayer to also get a chance to say a couple of words but it's largely about Financial Services with this merger possibility.
First of all we were not surprised by this news at all.
It had been something that we felt might make sense for a number of years for all the reasons Bill outlined.
What our customers are telling us right now – and by the way there's been no shortage of communication between customers and us based on the recent news – but what they're saying to us right now is a couple of things.
First of all is they've congratulated us.
Just looking at our value proposition how we've been so focused on a transformation for a number of years becoming much more software-driven.
So much of our revenue streams today in Financial Services do not come from ATMs anymore.
We have a very large and growing enterprise software business that in the recent quarter made up about 40% of our software revenues.
So we've been doing a lot of things to change the value proposition and for us it's changed our operating margins quite substantially based on that innovation.
The second thing that they're telling us is keep doing exactly what you're doing which makes a lot of sense to us.
We feel like the strategy that we've put in place has really changed the game in the industry.
It's not just about physical channels.
It's not just about digital channels.
We're the ones that they look to to integrate channels seamlessly to help financial institutions control costs and improve revenues.
So it's really been working for us.
In terms of your question about pricing you can never predict what's going to happen out there on pricing but there's a lot of competition.
There always has been in the Financial Services space.
There's a lot of spending and a lot of competition.
We don't expect that to change over the course of time but I would say just as we're looking at recent activity that we do think that pricing is probably more stable right now than it was six months ago.
That's not to say that that's a new trend either.
It's a highly competitive market.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
That's it for me.
We'll go next to Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Good afternoon Bill.
Bill I don't know if this is a question for you or maybe Andy.
I was just wondering if either one of you could comment on Digital Insight and the growth you're witnessing now as it's part of NCR and maybe some of the leverage you were able to get because of the ATM business.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah sure.
First of all I'll let Andy do most of the talking Kartik.
But we are very pleased so far with the progress we're making in DI.
Andy any other further comments from you? VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Well yeah a couple of things.
First of all it's been the backbone for us of our whole community financial institution segment play that we've been making for a couple of years now.
That business will perform extremely well this year for us.
The Digital Insight component which is a subset of how we go to market in the community financial institution space continues to be growing this year in kind of the mid-single digits.
The key thing to know that we've been talking about is that we believe this is a business that can grow high-single digits low-double digits long-term like our Hospitality SaaS business and what we've been working on so hard is getting the customer satisfaction model extremely high; and our team has done an exceptional job of that.
We've grown the net promoter score from negative numbers to very positive numbers in about 12 months.
We're still – if you look at the business there's a lot of growth in end users which is great.
We have a new module coming to market right now.
We went live with it last week: business banking.
We see a lot of growth ahead for the business and we just have to work through the erosion of some of the complaints in contracts from prior owners that should be behind us by the first half of next year so that's been the only headwind in the business.
That will be behind us soon enough so it's been a fantastic acquisition thus far.
So Andy would that imply – if DI is growing mid-single digits and if I look at financials of service numbers on a constant-currency basis would that imply that overall ATM business was down and if so what would you attribute that to? VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Well yeah the ATM business is – when we look at it right now it goes a little bit back to the backlog story there.
I would say the ATM business generally speaking if you think about our business as the ATM business versus the branch business versus DI? The ATM business is – right now there is a softness to the point you mentioned but you've got to look at the Russia China syndrome that's going on because that is causing a – depending on the quarter – a 300 basis point or 400 basis point impact.
So when you normalize it for that it's a growth business still; and the backlog position because of the points I made about slower backlog conversion is the cause of why it's not even a faster growing business than that.
But it's still a low single-digit growth business without Russia China.
Once the backlog starts to revert to the mean in the outer quarters here as we look into 2016 then we're back to what I would call a normal level of growth for the business.
So you're just having two geographies negatively impact you.
VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Two geographies negatively impacting us along with slower conversion of other markets due to the percentage of contracts that are in these more innovative areas.
And Bill just one last question – obviously a lot of questions on the strategic review.
As you look at it today has it taken longer than you thought and if so as you look back why do you think so? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Oh for sure Kartik.
It's taken a lot longer than we initially thought and the reason is twofold.
I mentioned these earlier.
One is when you're a public company and you need to focus on running the business and running it responsibly there is only so many hours in the day; and if you devote all of your time to a strategic review you could take your eye off the ball and we will not let that happen; that's number one.
Number two the depth of the analysis by alternative has been very comprehensive more comprehensive than I initially thought meaning we're going deeper wider; we're viewing every alternative at a very comprehensive level and I think in the end that is the most responsible thing to do.
So I would say yes and for those reasons.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
We'll go next to Gil Luria from Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes thanks for taking my question.
Excluding Russia and China what other countries do you feel have gotten worse over the last few months and what currencies have been the incremental weight since you reported last time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Gil.
It's Bill.
First of all I saw you in my office today on CNBC.
You looked very handsome.
How about it Andy? Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I appreciate that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And on this question I'll ask Andy to answer that.
Andy? VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
I think let me say a couple of things.
First of all the African nations in general have – we've started to see some softness there.
And I don't know if you caught my comments related to Russia and the fact that there's a lot of contracts we have in Russia on U.S.
dollar.
It's the same thing with Africa where you might see anywhere from a 5% to 12% FX impact there that – if a distributor is buying a product from us in U.S.
dollars all of a sudden that same product costs 5% to 12% more makes it more difficult for them to do business.
So African nations we've seen softness there this year relative to prior year.
And that's been the big one.
And I'd say as we look out while it's not been a material impact yet we do believe there could be a little bit of softness ahead with a couple of the other BRICs as well down the road.
But right now I would say it's limited to more in Africa maybe to a smaller extent other parts of Asia.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> And then Gil this is Bob.
On the kind of currency question we saw for the full year $65 million more revenue headwind.
About two-thirds came from three currencies in Brazil Canada and Australia.
Brazil changed by roughly 24% from when we gave guidance in July.
And then there were probably 40 currencies that all weakened versus the U.S.
dollar.
So those were the three big ones but then it was across the board on the remaining piece.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The interesting thing Gil is when you take out Russia and China and you look at Andy's business he actually grew orders in Q3 ex-China and Russia by 5% FX-neutral and grew revenue by 3% FX-neutral so it gives you a sense of the impact of China and Russia this year so far.
Inc.</span></strong> So let me – first I wanted to ask Bob another question just again for modeling.
Below the line you changed three of the assumptions for the annual guidance: the share count the interest expense and the tax rate.
Can you go through what are the changes that have happened in those lines to reduce them? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah so previously for other income and expense we had guided to $215 million to $220 million.
We now think that number will be closer to $204 million.
Interest expense is down.
We also started the year from an OIE perspective building in a little bit more FX volatility on that particular line and then we saw some favorability in just a couple of other areas around bank fees as an example.
So that's why we were able to bring the other income and expense down to that $204 million number.
On taxes we continued to do a good job.
We had guided originally to 25%.
We now think we'll be closer to 24% to 25% in terms of the tax rate.
And then on the share count you make assumptions at the beginning of the year: we said 175 million; it's looking like it's closer to 173 million and again that includes a number of assumptions around forfeitures et cetera.
So those three all help.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
I just want to circle back into the BRICs and ask because you guys have so many feet on the street in all these different countries a little bit of the really high level perspective about what your prospect is for those markets for the emerging markets especially the big ones? Is this – are we looking at a multi-year slowdown after a few decades of growth or is this just some hesitation or contagion from the Chinese stock market? How do you guys view the macro backdrop for the emerging market businesses that you have given the specific insight that you have there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it is a little different by market.
In China to be successful long-term we're going to have to go in a direction that helps us to become more of a local player in the market.
So if the regulatory environment does not change in China and it could we're going to have to figure out what our long-term strategic plan is around going local.
And there are a variety of interesting alternatives there for us but our goal by the way there would be certainly to become more software-focused than hardware.
In Russia it really is a macro and currency headwind that should over time abate.
Now of course they're very sensitive to the oil markets in terms of the impact on their economic growth.
And clearly relative to their relationship with the U.S.
that can also feature prominently in our success.
However my thinking there is that that market will see more stability over time for us than not.
Brazil has certainly been more challenged given their macroeconomic situation.
I think for Brazil we'll have to wait and see environment but they have experienced more of a slowdown there.
And India is a different market altogether.
I think all-in for us is very market-dependent.
I do not expect by the way 2016 to see as much of a drag on our revenue from Russia and China simply because we begin to lap difficult compares by the middle of next year.
So Andy you may want to give some more commentary on that point.
VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me also just add one thing and we think it's really important.
When you look at the BRICs right now for us they're largely not the places that we have driven the transformation agenda and where that really shows up is on the gross margin and operating income line of each of the four regions.
This year in 2015 we will see a hit from an operating income perspective for those headwinds but those should really abate next year and beyond to Bill's point even though the revenues may still have some challenges.
I'd say most of the margin dollars there of where the risks would be the risk there is much lower on the margin dollar perspective than where the future revenue softness may land with each of the four markets.
So that's the other thing I would add that I think is really important as we assess the impact on operating income in the outer years here.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Matt Summerville from Alembic Global Advisors.
Hey can you guys hear me okay? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Perfect.
I want to talk just one more minute on the ATM business.
If you look at going from kind of up 4% to 6% constant currency to up 1% to 2% constant currency and you bear in mind that roughly half-ish of the business should be annuity-like services that's a really big reduction in the final quarter of the year if you will or the final half of the year relative to your 2Q guidance and then the whole China and Russia thing is not necessarily "new" in my view.
And then you talk about an industry that's sort of pushing stuff out because it's (54:28) moving fast so I'm just trying to square all those (54:33).
I know there's a lot of moving pieces but if you can help me make sense of all of that it would be extremely helpful.
VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Bill can I get that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah please go ahead.
VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Okay yeah good good.
So Matt good question.
Just so you know Matt you did garble up a little bit at the end of the question but I think I got the gist of it which is I think you're saying in the fourth quarter how did you have a 300-basis-point to 400-basis-point drop in revenue especially given that you got a reasonable annuity stream.
It's really the backlog conversion.
I'd say when we looked at it we planned in Q3 and Q4 for backlog conversion rates that were 500 basis points less than last year in both of the quarters roughly and where we're landing now is 1 000-basis-point reduction over prior year.
So just to use some real math and I'll just use rough numbers here in the third quarter we – in the fourth quarter where we're now landing has cost 50% to 55% of backlog conversions a little lower in the third quarter a little higher in fourth quarter.
So that 50% to 55% compares to last year's 60% to 65%.
We had planned on being a 500-basis-point drop from last year not 1 000-basis-point drop and 500 basis points called on roughly $800 million of backlog is in the $40 million-plus range per quarter.
That's the drop.
We frankly did not do a good job with the modeling there.
This outlook here is much more conservative and much more responsible and we've planned expenses accordingly.
Got it.
I appreciate the color.
And then just one follow-up getting back to the whole strategic side of things.
I guess at some point you have to be able to kind of put a check in the box and say this is a viable this isn't viable this is viable this isn't viable and so on and so forth.
And I feel like we're right back where NCR was six to nine months ago when some of this stuff started getting discussed rumored what have you.
I guess – so what boxes have been checked or not checked or what opportunities actually appear viable from a strategic standpoint from here going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Matt I think it's just too early to give you a check-the-box view.
I think we've seen all of the options remain viable and the Board of Directors is looking at them in concert with one another and the optionality of one versus another in terms of what's best for our shareholders in NCR.
Is there a timeframe Bill I mean you guys talked about having an Analyst Meeting in September.
That sort of got canceled – I'm not going to call it last minute but not all that far in advance of the actual meeting at least officially.
I mean when can we expect and I think there's a lot of folks sort of waiting for this – when can we expect to hear something more definitive about where this company goes from here – from an inflection standpoint strategically et cetera? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think once the strategic process has completed and we have something of note to say other than continuing to execute to our plan and execute to our guidance we will not have an Investor Meeting.
But I would tell you that right now it will either be in Q4 or Q1 is my estimation right now Matt.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
We'll take our next question from Prasad Borra with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions couple if I may.
Probably just focus on the free cash flow generation now you're talking about incremental restructuring measures.
Given what you have gone through in terms of the process and probably you have a better view on which are the elements of the business which can be improved.
Would you say that there are some additional tailwinds or benefits you can see from a free cash flow perspective which could offset some of the impacts on additional restructuring costs? VP-NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yes without a doubt.
I mean we're very focused on the savings that those additional restructuring initiatives would drive so my view is that I would not expect a negative impact in 2016.
If anything we'll see incremental free cash flow associated with the restructuring.
Okay.
And Bill you had mentioned that there's a lot of new learnings which you had from probably reading the data a lot more and probably getting the consulting experience which you would have probably not have explored before.
What are the key takings from it? Operationally what can you do better and also in terms of probably setting the guidance are there any lessons to take? Would you be more willing to be conservative in terms of giving guidance and yeah anything you can say from that perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think what we've learned is that we can be a bit more focused on resource allocation and a bit more aggressive on resource allocation where we see higher growth and higher margin expansion.
That would be point one.
Point two that we have some amount of inefficiency and a level of under-productiveness in certain aspects of the company that we can go to work on and overall that our cost structure can be a bit more competitive going forward but while driving the kind of growth and bottom-line expansion and cash flow that we think we can drive.
In terms of guidance we're meeting our guidance.
This year I think we've done a good job in terms of setting guidance.
On that point I might add one of the things Bob and I are proud of is the fact that since we gave NPOI guidance in February we've seen about $20 million to $25 million more of NPOI headwinds as a result of FX and we did not take guidance down to $805 million to $845 million in that range to reflect the additional headwinds of FX.
We stuck with our guidance and we're proud of the fact that we can navigate through those headwinds and make our guidance.
Okay.
That's pretty much from my end.
Thank you.
And at this time I would like to turn the call back over to Bill Nuti for any additional or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thank you all for joining us and we appreciate the questions.
As always we look forward to being in contact you.
If something were to change within the quarter we'll certainly be in contact you but otherwise we look forward to talking to you again in Q1.
Good night.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the NCR Corporation Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gavin Bell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Good afternoon and thank you for joining our fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining me on the call today and offering opening remarks are Bill Nuti Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Bob Fishman Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally available on the call today for Q&amp;A are Andy Heyman Senior Vice President and President Financial Services; Michael Bayer Senior Vice President and President Retail Solutions; and Paul Langenbahn Senior Vice President and President of Hospitality.
Our presentations and discussions today include forecasts and statements that are considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
While these statements reflect our current outlook expectations and beliefs they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially.
These risks and uncertainties are described in our earnings release and our periodic filings with the SEC including our annual report to stockholders.
On today's call we will be referring to presentation materials posted on our website.
We will also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial information such as free cash flow and results excluding the impact of pension and other items.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and other information concerning such measures are included in the presentation materials and in our earnings release.
These are also available on the Investor Relations section of NCR's website.
A replay of the call will be available later today on our website ncr.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Nuti.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Gavin.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Before we get into Q4 and full year results I wanted to provide a brief retrospective on 2015.
First let me say that 2015 turned out to be far more challenging than we initially expected as a result of slower growing China and Russia markets significantly increased foreign exchange headwinds which negatively impacted 2015 revenue by $415 million profit by $72 million and EPS by $0.27 a third of which was not included in our initial full year guidance not to mention the impact significantly weaker local currencies have on the cost of our products in several strong NCR markets around the world.
Just to put that in perspective in 2015 the Canadian dollar dropped by 16% Australian dollar by 10% Brazilian real by 30% and the euro by 10%.
Additionally as the year we're on with basically the unexpected macro challenge of lower oil prices and destabilization in many of our stronger oil sensitive countries geopolitical stabs (03:24) lower global GDP growth than expected and volatile capital markets in the back half of the year.
On top of all that we were immersed and all encompassing strategic review process that took the better part of a year to complete and successfully culminated within $820 million investment in NCR by Blackstone coupled with a $1 billion share buyback.
With that as a backdrop I was particularly impressed with NCR's 2015 results.
I want to thank my team for their hard work throughout the year.
The NCR team did what they said they were going to do with regard to our key metrics of revenue growth operating income EPS and free cash flow the latter of which as you know is an investor area of focus and significantly exceeded our initial guidance.
I'm proud of the NCR team.
I'm also confident that the diversity of our business and strategic focus on omni-channel solutions were two key reasons for our success.
Through organic and inorganic investments we have positioned NCR as a clear market and thought leader in the rapidly growing omni-channel market and we experienced solid software growth.
As a result our omni-channel leadership coupled with the diversity of our markets geographies and revenue streams have become important strengths and provide NCR with an ability to produce solid results in a state of unusual headwind.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bob to provide perspective on Q4 and full year results.
Bob? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thank you Bill.
Slide number four shows our financial highlights for Q4.
Revenue was down 5% on an as reported basis due to continued negative currency headwind.
On a constant currency basis Q4 revenues were flat.
Revenue came in line with our guidance that we provided back in October after adjusting for additional unfavorable FX in the quarter.
Recurring revenue increased 6% constant currency and was 41% of total revenue.
Looking at margins we were pleased with our operational gross margin being up 70 basis points constant currency in the quarter due to a higher mix of software-related revenue.
In the bottom left box Q4 NPOI was up 14% constant currency and non-GAAP EPS was up 13% constant currency both strong numbers.
Free cash flow was very solid in the quarter and reflected our improved linearity throughout 2015.
Moving to the next slide which shows our financial highlights for the full year; revenue was down 3% on a reported basis in 2015 but up 3% constant currency.
Constant currency revenue growth was driven mostly by our Retail Solutions and Hospitality segment through further expansion of our software and cloud revenue.
Recurring revenue reached 43% of total revenue compared to 41% at the end of 2014.
Increasing our recurring revenue is a key area of focus at NCR and the team did a solid job against that goal this year.
Operational gross margin was 29.3% in 2015 down 20 basis points for the year.
Although the mix of software-related revenue improved in the year it did not offset more hardware margin rate.
NPOI was up 10% constant currency and non-GAAP EPS was up 11% constant currency for the year both very good numbers.
And lastly free cash flow was $409 million in 2015 up $96 million from the prior year.
We made great progress executing against our free cash flow goal and exceeded our initial full-year free cash flow guidance of $325 million to $375 million.
This has been an ongoing priority for NCR and I'm pleased with what we've accomplished in 2015.
Turning now to slide number six you'll see our Q4 and full year 2015 software-related revenue.
In Q4 on a constant currency basis software-related revenue was down 1% and cloud revenue increased 5%.
For the full year on a constant currency basis software-related revenue increased 4% and cloud revenue increased 10% including strong growth in our Hospitality business.
I'm on slide seven now which covers our Q4 and full year operational results in a little more detail.
We experienced unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations during the fourth quarter with impacts of approximately $90 million in revenue $21 million in NPOI and $0.07 in non-GAAP EPS.
On a constant currency basis fourth quarter revenue was flat NPOI was higher by 14% and non-GAAP EPS was higher by 13%.
For the full year foreign currency headwinds were $415 million in revenue $72 million in NPOI and $0.27 in non-GAAP EPS.
On a constant currency basis revenue grew 3% NPOI was up 10% and non-GAAP EPS grew 11% for the year all very good numbers while we continued with our transformation.
The next slide shows our fourth quarter and full year GAAP result.
The reconciling items between these GAAP result and operational results are included in the supplementary non-GAAP information slide.
As noted on the supplementary slide reconciling items include amortization of acquired intangibles acquisition related costs restructuring related charges and pension expense.
In Q4 2015 pension expense included a $29 million mark-to-market charge compared to $150 million in Q4 2014.
Additional reconciling items in the fourth quarter of 2015 are $20 million reserve related to a subcontracting arrangement in Middle East Africa in the Emerging Industries and a $34 million non-cash charge relating to the pending divestiture of the IPS business.
We made the decision in Q4 to sell the IPS business and focus our efforts on NCR's core.
The Q4 charge reflects IPS being classified as held for sale on our balance sheet and valuing it as fair value.
The decrease in full year GAAP EPS was primarily due to a $427 million non-cash settlement of a pension plan in the UK in the second quarter of 2015.
Slide nine shows the revenue by segment.
As you can see FX had a significant impact in the quarter and the year.
On a constant currency basis Financial Services was down 5% for the quarter and up 1% for the year.
Retail Solutions was up 4% for the quarter and up 5% for the year.
And Hospitality was up 12% for the quarter and up 7% for the year.
Slide 10 is a very important page.
It shows that we delivered operating margin expansion in all of our businesses in 2015.
In Financial we grew full year operating margins by 40 basis points primarily as a result of growing software-related revenue by 5% constant currency and significantly increasing our high value solutions.
Retail Solutions grew operating income by 10% constant currency after a challenging year in 2014.
Higher cloud revenue and good expense management helped the retail business.
Hospitality had a terrific year.
Operating margins were up 300 basis points and operating income grew by 26%.
This significant improvement was driven by software-related revenues growing by 17% constant currency.
So again tremendous balance across our businesses in 2015.
Improving the mix to higher software-related revenues and strong cost management is the key to driving operating margin dollar growth.
I'll cover Q4 segment result in more detail on the next few slides.
On slide 11 you'll see our Financial Services update.
On a constant currency basis revenues were down 5%.
Excluding Brazil Russia India and China revenue was up 1% on a constant currency basis.
Operating margin was up 160 basis points at 18%.
This improvement was due to a favorable mix of revenue and expense management.
We remained focused on driving operating margin expansion through our transformation initiatives improved mix and software growth despite revenue headwinds.
Current economic conditions are putting pressure on ATM sales including the attached software which is impacting near-term profitability.
Our high value solutions including branch transformation cloud and enterprise software improved in the year driving full year software-related revenue up 5% on a constant currency basis.
In addition we are encouraged by the positive trends in a number of key businesses including community banks and cloud-delivered digital banking application.
The next slide shows our Retail Solutions' Q4 results.
Revenue was up 4% on a constant currency basis due to improvements in the Americas and Europe.
Operating margin was 10.4% an increase of 150 basis points.
Retail operating income increased from the prior year due to higher revenue and expense management.
Q4 software-related revenue was down 10% on a constant currency basis due to some larger customer rollouts in the prior year.
The retail market continues to show improved fundamentals and our Retail ONE omni-commerce platform is gaining traction in the market after a successful NRF Trade Show.
Additionally we are recognized for our global leadership position in Point of Service and were named number one in Global Self-Service Checkouts for the 14th consecutive year according to RBR.
Turning to the next slide.
Hospitality revenues were up 12% on a constant currency basis driven by improvements in the higher margin revenue streams including cloud and professional services.
Operating margin performance was 21.2% up 430 basis points due to this higher software-related revenue including cloud and professional services revenue.
We are driving improved results through sales transformation and increased software revenue.
Our strong cloud revenue growth is driven by omni-channel applications with cloud application sites up 17%.
We are making traction in international markets and our SMB market strategy is generating strong results.
The full year constant currency software-related revenue was up 17% and cloud revenue was up 24%.
Next looking at our Emerging Industries business on slide number 14 revenues were up 6% on a constant currency basis driven by our Telecom &amp; Technology business.
Operating income was roughly flat in dollar terms but we continue to invest in NCR Silver our cloud-delivered mobile point-of-sale solution for Small Business.
On slide 15 on a constant currency basis software-related revenue was down 1% for the quarter but up 4% for the full year.
Hardware revenue was down 6% for the quarter up 2% for the full year and other services were up 8% for the quarter and 5% for the full year.
Cloud revenue growth was significant up 10% for the full year on a constant currency basis.
On slide 16 you can see free cash flow for the quarter and full year.
Full year free cash flow of $409 million exceeded our expectation and represented 85% of non-GAAP net income a significant improvement in conversion rate versus prior years.
Slide number 17 shows our net debt-to-EBITDA metric where we closed the year a little better than expected with a net debt leverage ratio of 2.8 times.
Slide 18 includes our full year 2016 guidance.
In 2016 we are providing guidance for revenue earnings per share and free cash flow.
We are now including ongoing pension-related expense in our non-GAAP EPS guidance.
Through the actions we have taken related to our pension plans over the last couple of years we have reduced the volatility of ongoing pension expense and will now include it on a go-forward basis.
Ongoing pension expense includes service cost interest cost and the expected return on planned assets but excludes the Q4 mark-to-market adjustment.
The top section of the chart shows our revenue EPS and free cash flow guidance for 2016.
Our revenue guidance is $6.1 billion to $6.2 billion our non-GAAP EPS guidance is $2.72 to $2.82 and our free cash flow guidance is $425 million to $475 million.
In 2016 we will be divesting our IPS business and including ongoing pension-related expense.
For the IPS divestiture we have assumed the closing at the end of the first quarter.
In addition we are expecting incremental foreign currency headwinds of $135 million versus 2015 with an EPS impact of $0.10.
These three items create an apples-to-oranges comparison to our 2015 reported result.
In order to show the operational growth year-on-year we have included the reconciliation at the bottom of the chart.
As you can see the constant currency revenue growth on the same basis as 2015 is 3% to 4% and the non-GAAP EPS growth is a solid 4% to 8%.
Despite challenging economic conditions we continue to take advantage of the omni-channel market opportunity which is allowing us to drive higher software-related revenues.
The free cash flow guidance of $425 million to $475 million is a very good result for us and reflects a non-GAAP net income conversion rate of approximately 95%.
On slide 19 you will find Q1 2016 guidance.
I expect revenue will be down 2% as reported but up 1% constant currency.
This includes a negative FX impact of approximately 3 points or $45 million.
Our non-GAAP EPS is expected to be $0.30 to $0.35 for the quarter down for the first quarter versus prior year for a number of reasons.
Our pension change higher tax rates and unfavorable foreign currency offset by the lower share count is driving roughly $0.06 of headwinds as you can see noted in the chart.
The balance of the change is due to market condition and major financial customer rollouts ramping later in the year.
The encouraging news is that we have seen positive signs in the fourth quarter in all of our businesses.
Financial Services has significant backlog coming into 2016 and our higher value offerings are doing very well.
The market is moving in our favor within Retail and Hospitality has been on a very strong trajectory.
We look forward to a very successful 2015.
Now I'll turn the call back to Bill for some closing comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Bob and perfect job on free cash flow.
In summary despite the factors that went against us in 2015 NCR achieved success in most of our key metrics and importantly drove higher than expected free cash flow.
It's clear that omni-channel is maturing and the market opportunity for NCR is very exciting.
We are also fully aware of the competitive lead we've established but remain healthily paranoid about competition in the years to come.
This healthy paranoia drives us harder every day to fuel innovation that will further expand our competitive advantage.
We hope that it's evident to our investors by the leadership position we are taking in introducing new omni-channel products and solutions and 2016 will be one of NCR's biggest years ever for new product introduction.
It's important to us because every customer call I attend regardless of market or geography TXOs (21:16) are focused on omni-channel enablement over the next several years.
In addition the solution to enable omni-channel are now becoming mainstream with market leaders making long-term buying decisions in the next 12 months to 24 months.
We talk a lot about branch transformation as one solution subset of omni-channel but solutions with even higher potential are rapidly maturing.
Unified commerce software and store transformation in Retail are both examples of large growing markets and future growth drivers in the years ahead.
These same solutions helped NCR Retail achieve solid results in Q4 and 2015.
Similarly in Hospitality omni-channel software guest experience applications and mobile point-of-sale were drivers of success this past year and will be more so in the years to come.
As mentioned branch transformation continues to be an exciting growth market in Financial Services but like other industries we are seeing enterprise omni-channel software growth becoming an important solution for the future of this market and while we are facing stronger macro headwinds in the Financial Services space we remain very confident in the growth potential of this segment.
Finally I want to comment on our progress in services and sales transformation as well as the ongoing market consolidation in our industry.
First I wanted to update you that NCR is making good progress vis-à-vis services and sales transformation.
We are seeing better results across the board in terms of improved customer satisfaction and our ability to successfully transition to a more consultative solution (23:20) capability.
Both areas of focus are multi-year efforts and remain critical to our future success.
As for our industry there is finally recognition that the future is about omni-channel enablement and end-to-end solutions not selling boxes coupled with (23:38) services.
While we continue to maintain our position as a number one provider of point-of-sale self-checkout and ATMs we are also transforming our company into the leading omni-channel solution provider globally and legacy consolidation continues to occur.
First with Oracle and MICROS then with TOSHIBA TEC and IBM and now with Diebold and Wincor.
And we strongly believe that market consolidation will only increase the opportunities for NCR.
This consolidation and future strategic moves by industry participants are a clear response to the needs of our customers and their inherent focus on omni-channel enablement.
As I said earlier we feel like we have established a healthy competitive advantage that we intend to build on by ramping up our innovation efforts new product introduction and further cloud as well as mobile growth.
Now I'll open the call up for questions.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Typically over the past three years or four years the first quarter EPS has made up about 15% to 19% of the full year earnings and guidance implies a much lower mix around 12% of EPS coming in the first quarter.
Can you just walk through what some of the headwinds are in first quarter that then alleviate as you move through the year? And then I have a follow up.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Katy this is Bob and then others can chime in.
But when I look at the operating income as a percentage of the full-year guidance it's around 15%.
The nine-year average has been 15.5%.
The last couple of years have been a little bit higher than that you're right 16% 17%.
So it is a little bit slower than what we saw the last couple of years.
But overall I would say the backlog is good coming into the year.
I mentioned a couple of times that we're seeing slower backlog rollout primarily in the financial industry.
So while the first quarter is a little bit less it's not a lot and it's really reflective of that rollout.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Katy this is Bill.
I would add that the primary reason really is some slower rollout of large branch projects that are coming mainly in Q2 and Q3.
So it's a little bit slower but I'm quite pleased with the ramp in the first half of the year in Q2 and then in the back half.
And last quarter you talked about the delayed conversion of backlog relating to a higher mix of innovative products and higher mix of software.
Do you think that that still explains the delay or is some of the weakness we've seen in the stock market and the bank stocks in particular telling us that there was maybe some constraints around budgets? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll kick the call off with an answer and then Andy will give you his point of view as well on budget.
But we're not seeing right now any budgetary constraints.
And in fact I would say for branch in particular and backlog rollout some of this is NCR induced and that we are working hard on finalizing some of our new solutions in the market and that is also taking some time.
So we're partly to blame on new projects rollout but generally speaking the ramp up of the backlog is really Q2 and beyond.
Andy? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
Katy I mean you're looking at a situation it's a really good story medium to long term quarter-to-quarter it's got the challenges that you're mentioning and you got a backlog position in Financial Services that ends 2015 up 14% constant currency.
You've got a brand new product launch that is both in the ATM and the branch space that starts to come live in a big way in the second quarter.
And then we ramp from there.
So like Bill said not budgetary constraints at all we just need to drive the launches of these solutions and then we start releasing significant backlog conversion different than we were able to in 2015.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's helpful color.
And next will be Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
My question is can you just give us an update on now the Blackstone transaction is behind you guys and I'm just wondering how those conversations are going in terms of what they are helping you with bringing to the table incremental cost synergies that they envision maybe that's not fully embedded yet might be conservative guidance I don't know.
I'm just wondering if you could bring us forward a little bit on those discussions.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Dan we're off to a good start with Blackstone.
We are working with their internal operations team on a number of initiatives mainly around improving our cost structure.
And Bob will give you some examples in a moment of some short-term wins.
But we're working with them very tightly taking advantage of their $100 billion in procurement spend to reduce their overall direct cost.
We're working with their teams on looking at areas like BPI through business process improvement and also enterprise quality.
But I'd say that generally speaking we're looking to recoup the annual cost of that relationship through the efforts that were now underway with them.
Well Bob anything other? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'd agree.
I'd say it's widespread across the company their portfolio businesses have the $100 billion of purchasing power.
So it's everything from lower prices that – at Hilton to taking advantage of some of their sourcing processes their purchasing tools as an example.
And so really every function at NCR is getting with the Blackstone counterpart and looking at ways so they can optimize their spend.
I'd also add that what we're seeing is the access to the talent pool that exists within Blackstone.
So if we're looking for a business process improvement person or some other skill around any of our transformation areas whether it'd be software services or sales transformation there does seem to be a team of there that can help us with those initiatives.
So I've been pleased around with the purchasing and cost but also the talent management.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah final comment Dan.
Having Chinh Chu and Greg Blank on our board has also been a real value added for us.
You mentioned guidance and my only other comment there would be that I think our guidance is appropriately conservative and prudent in light of the world around us today but we feel very confident in the achievement of our current guidance.
In that same vein are some of these cost initiatives and access to talent pools to procurement.
Are those all contemplated in these estimated numbers or is that something that's going to play out over the course of 2016 and then we might see incremental benefits actually in the latter years? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that that will play out Dan over the course of 2016.
There could be benefit in 2016.
Bob and I will cover more of that at the upcoming Analyst Day in March.
But no doubt that we do not have contemplated in the current guidance any significant improvement that will come about as a result of our Blackstone initiatives.
Okay.
And then one last if I could ask Andy.
In the Financial Services segment I kind of want to follow up a little bit on the original questions.
There is this question about demand out there and we heard a lot of it I wonder if you look at the size of financial institutions larger versus small and mid-tier.
Can you just parse maybe the demand environment in the conversations you're having with those different sized financial institutions because they don't sound like their budgeting process or their demands are at all created equal at this point? Thanks.
President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a fair question.
When you look at the top level growth rates for 2015 it is a tale of two stories Dan.
I would not break it down by segment of customer I would break it down more from a BRIC versus rest of world perspective.
And when you look at an overall what was a fairly level business in 2015 versus 2014 really it was a BRIC shrink who caused us 500 basis points to 600 basis points of growth.
So the rest of world grew 5% plus but the BRIC shrink drag down the growth rates in a fairly significant way to where it looks like a pretty level business in 2015.
So it's really a BRIC story.
And when we look at 2016 we've really de-risked the BRIC business in terms of our outlook here.
Last year was a tough year in the BRICs.
NCR is not the only company that had that issue and we're confident in our BRIC outlook in 2016.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
And our next question comes from Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Good evening.
Bill maybe you could or Andy you could just expand on the comments you just made a little while ago.
I'm wondering as you look at 2016 at least for the Financial Self-Service business by geography what kind of growth you're expecting? It sounds like Andy your expectations for 2016 growth in the BRIC countries is pretty low.
But I wanted to get your perspective on just growth by geography in that business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Kartik it's Bill.
I think we'll give you a little bit of color on in terms of growth in the sense of how mortgage (35:54) might move in the year.
But Andy could you give him a little more color than that on geographic growth? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Sure.
Just in terms of the way we're looking at 2016 from a Financial Services perspective where we're really looking at right now is a business that – you're looking at low single-digits on a global basis for Financial Services in terms of growth and that's with about a 300 basis-point headwind from the BRICs.
So we expect the BRICs will shrink again low double-digits offset by about 5% to 6% growth in the rest of the world.
That really covers the Financial Services business.
And then Bill I think you mentioned that you're seeing some good growth or growth at least in the community FIs and I'm assuming you meant the U.S.
I'm wondering what's driving is it hardware or software.
President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Bill you want me to take that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead Andy take it.
President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
So it's actually a great story.
Let me start with how we closed Q4 which was order growth in the community financial institution segment of high 20% almost 30% on order growth.
So the key to the success is really not any one of the point solutions.
It's really the omni-channel story taking off.
So if you look at a customer that's looking for a stable partner who can seamlessly integrate physical and digital channels and then take out costs in terms of leveraging their legacy systems there is really only one choice for customers.
So it's the omni-channel story that we're the only game in town for them.
And then comes with that it's a hardware software cloud bundle that is the name of the game for the community financial institution segment.
So Andy are you saying it's both hardware and software or is – because of the omni-channel it's a greater amount of software? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Well I wouldn't say greater one way or the other what I would say is that it's a software driven sale then we attach hardware on to.
The old NCR was certainly hardware driven sale in today and really for all of our industry teams today it's a software driven sale and especially through in the community financial institution segment where they don't have the time to best agree the decision process.
They are looking for a fully integrated solution including cloud and digital banking tied in with the integration to self-service and branch transformation channel it will by the way has hardware that attaches with that to bring it to life.
And I guess just one last question.
I want to understand free cash flow Bob.
Your 2016 guidance is there a difference between the guidance you gave from a GAAP standpoint versus non-GAAP in terms of the free cash flow you will generate? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> You mean from the free cash flow guidance of $425 million to $475 million Kartik was your specific question? Yeah.
The $425 million to $475 million if I compare that to GAAP in 2016 will it be the same or if there is a difference what are the differences? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean again the free cash flow number starts with a GAAP number of operating cash flow.
And then you back out CapEx and discontinued ops.
So no change from 2015 and it certainly – I think people view it as a non-GAAP term free cash flow but it's very GAAP in terms of starting with operating cash flow and just backing out CapEx and disc ops.
Well perfect Bob.
So it sounds like a real solid number for 2016 then.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think from my perspective if you look at kind of the history of free cash flow we were in the 20% to 30% five years ago.
We had a lot of legacy issues pension contributions environmental and as we've worked our way through that and driven the software business we have 85% conversion in 2015 95% forecast in 2016 and we've made our numbers three years in a row.
Last year I gave guidance of $325 million to $375 million and we landed at $409 million.
So that was a good answer.
The whole company is energized around free cash flow this year I've given guidance of $425 million to $475 million.
Perfect.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Kartik.
And the next question will come from Matt Summerville with Alembic Global Advisors.
Hey thanks.
Just couple questions.
First Bob can you talk about what your goal would be in terms of a net debt to EBITDA ratio heading out of 2016? I know you exited 2015 at 2.8 times and then I have a follow up please.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll share a lot more of that as part of Analyst Day and capital allocation strategy.
I will say this though our goal remains to be solid double D.
So that has not changed.
And then just as a follow up Bill you mentioned some things you guys are trying to do on the sales and service side of the company.
Can you sort of talk about metrics that you are looking at that we can focus on how much have your close rates improved across your sales organization how much have your capture rates improved across your service organization and I guess how much more room to go is there before you would feel that you've hit your target? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Many of the metrics we use to track sales effectiveness and transformation you would not see Matt.
But the best proxy for that in my view is software growth.
Ultimately our sales organization today is transitioning from I would say a great product hardware orientation to a software solutions orientation and we are in the fifth inning of that game.
And while we made good progress last year we still have one year to two years left to complete that journey.
And I would tell you today that if you track our software growth it's a really good proxy for sales force effectiveness because ultimately the transition believes (43:54) around solution selling and leading the software.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking my question.
In the Financial Services segment you indicated that you're seeing positive trends in key businesses with orders up 30% in community bank overall backlog up.
I guess the question really is is this related to just market share gains or market growth in general? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Andy why don't you take that? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Sure.
Yeah.
When we look at the markets out there right now and obviously the competitive landscapes are changing quite a bit in the markets that we call addressable markets in other words where we've got sales coverage and we've got products fit we're gaining share no question.
And then in terms of the overall market there are certainly some areas that are growing faster than others.
But generally speaking where we have addressable market meaning we're focused on from a sales perspective and we have products that will grow in share.
Got it.
And then Bob in the past you've provided outlook for each segment.
Can you give us some color for 2016? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We will provide a lot more color on the business as part of Analyst Day.
Right now it was important for us to establish guidance around total revenue around EPS earnings and free cash flow.
We'll provide more detail as part of Analyst Day.
Okay.
So then would you be providing more details around the margins as well because I'm just trying to figure out as well how should we think about margins in each of the segment and which segment should we see the most margin expansion in 2016.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think as we put together – start putting together the Analyst Day deck I think you will find it quite insightful in terms of the analysis that we provide.
So as we move into more of the omni-channel space we'll be talking about the business consistent with that.
Got it.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Meghna.
And next will be Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks for taking my question.
I had a couple of just financial clarifications.
First of all what's your underfunded status for the pension and obligations as of the end of the year? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Let me get that answer to you as part of this call but maybe go to your next question Gil and then I'll give you an update on that.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure the $20 million reserve reversal could you give us a little bit more detail into what that entails what was the situation there? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah I can.
So this was in our Emerging Industries it relates to an airport construction project in the Middle East.
In this situation the prime contractor got dismissed and we were a sub-contractor.
We've been a very valued partner of the government and continue to be.
This has been a long-term project for us.
It was revenue that was booked years ago at relatively low margins in terms of it being an airport rollout and this change of the prime contractor has caused a challenge in terms of ultimate payment.
So we took a reserve we continue to work that.
It was necessary to book a reserve at the end of Q4 but we continue to work through payment options even though they might take some time.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
So then the only other one I have is branch transformation.
The growth rate decelerated in the fourth quarter.
How much total dollars did you do branch transformation last year and what's your expectation for this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think total a year ago FX-neutral was somewhere in the $205 million range against our target of $230 million.
We probably caused about $15 million to $20 million of the growth challenge in that project readiness was an issue for us in the back half of the year that we'll solve here in the first half of 2016.
So demand was certainly there for our solution but we missed the mark.
And Andy why don't you give additional color on that and some color on 2016? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a business that we're looking at and you're talking about a 50% type of growth business.
We think it will continue into 2016.
The real drivers for us in 2016 continue to be the same things but in broader geographies.
So you got customers out there trying to change the game in terms of expanded store hours expanded the distribution points less labor to handle the service models that they are putting in place.
The community financial institution market in the United States has been the main driver for us.
The majors are a big driver for us in 2016 expanding more broadly in Middle East Africa in 2016 as they need to change their economic models of how they run branches in the retail network.
And then finally Western Europe we see steam picking up greatly there as well.
That's what the funnel tells us.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hey Gil on your pension question.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So it's very consistent with what we had signaled back in Q2.
You remember we transferred the overfunded London plan.
So with that left was around $580 million of underfunded think of that primarily as U.S.
and Germany.
Germany is a pay as you go plan.
So that's very close to what you'll see in the 10-K.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much.
Next will be Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey guys.
This is actually Rick Faulkner for Ian.
Just wondering if you've seen any change in the pricing environment in Financial given the consolidation between Wincor and Diebold? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we have seen for the latter part of 2015 and concurrently 2016 consistent pressure on pricing because both of those companies are coming together and wanting to perform well prior to integration.
But we do expect post integration for that hopefully to improve going forward.
Andy you may add some additional color.
President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yeah.
Rick I mean it's a marriage that's not yet happened and we're in an engagement period now.
And like any marriage that spending a lots of things get said now and what ends up happening we don't know.
What typically happens is you'll see stabilization occur in terms of two companies that become one have to drive a tremendous amount of rationalization when it comes to product lines and costs.
And so we're looking forward to that occurring and we think once that happens that what our customers are telling us is they're really looking for stable partners they're really for clarity of roadmaps.
How that make – when we're coming out with new products in that same period of time our hope is that can be favorable to margins.
And between now and then it's a certainly highly competitive as it always is in these markets in the ATM space less competitive in the branch transformation and software space where we have a competitive edge and clear differentiation.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah I mean I guess I was expecting that maybe the pricing environment could become more favorable but it sounds like you're saying it's all too early to tell.
President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> I would say that if things do become more favorable typically in situations like this what you'll see is that that would happen after the marriage was consummated which of course is not the case just yet.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And Rick through all of that as you can see we did improve operating margins both in Q4 and on the full year in financials through all of the challenges we faced plus a pricing environment that was a bit more aggressive than usual.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
And your next question comes from Matt Summerville with Alembic Global Advisors.
Hey thanks.
I just had a quick follow up.
First on China your two largest competitors have announced some sort of pursuing of a joint venture type strategy in order to be able to better participate in that market.
We all know about the by local requirement scene that's going on there.
So if you could talk about how you're thinking about China how you're positioned in or around that.
And then secondarily with Brazil I believe towards the second half of this year your contract expires with Bradesco sort of what the thought is there what kind of happens going forward in your view? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On China Matt we are looking at multiple options of how to successfully participate in that market having lived and worked there myself I have a unique insight in how to do that.
And I won't comment on our competition and what they've done but we will address that this year and the way we'll address it I think will be most beneficial to our shareholders and our long-term aspirations in China.
On Brazil Andy why don't you take that one? President NCR Financial Services</span></strong> Yes.
I think the partnership we have in Brazil as we look long-term we've now built a nine figure business in Brazil from a much smaller base five years ago.
So as we look at the next five years we're continuing to expand in Brazil with a more software driven approach.
How we do that will depend on a few different variables.
Going about it now alone not to discuss the whole thing can be removed from the current joint venture that we have.
We're very confident and independent thriving Brazil business notwithstanding the market challenges there given the economy.
So that right now would be – I'd say our most likely scenario as think medium-term to long-term in Brazil but we've got of options and we'll explore all of them.
Thanks guys.
Go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you all for joining and see you on March 7 and I look forward to see you there.
Good night.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you for your participation today.