Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Rebecca Kujawa.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Casey.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2011 conference call.
Lew Hay NextEra Energy's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will provide an overview of NextEra Energy's performance and recent accomplishments.
Lew will be followed by Armando Pimentel our Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the specifics of our financial results.
Also joining us this morning are Jim Robo President and Chief Operating Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Olivera President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company; and Mitch Davidson President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources which we will refer to as Energy Resources in this presentation.
Following our prepared remarks our senior management team will be available to take your questions.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward looking.
These statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements.
If any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release and the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found on the Investors section of our website www.nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Lew Hay.
Lew? Okay.
Thank you Rebecca and good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered solid results in the first quarter of 2011.
Although our adjusted earnings per share results were flat to last year's comparable quarter the results were in line with our expectations.
At a time of weak natural gas and power prices this is particularly noteworthy.
During the quarter we continued to make considerable investments in Florida's electrical infrastructure which are helping to keep prices low and reliability high.
One of the highlights of the quarter was that at Energy Resources we signed long-term power purchase agreements for an additional 400 megawatts of wind power since the beginning of the year.
In addition our existing wind fleet generated nearly 1 million megawatt hours of additional power compared to last year's comparable quarter.
As you know since our last earnings call the people of Japan experienced one of the worst earthquakes and tsunamis in modern history including extensive damage to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant.
Our sympathies go out to the Japanese people as they rebuild their country and their lives.
Here in the United States we continue to watch the events in Japan very closely.
There is still much we do not know about the events at the Fukushima plant and it will undoubtedly take much more time for full analysis to be completed.
With regard to NextEra Energy's nuclear fleet I can tell you that all of our plants are located outside areas deemed "high hazard" for seismic activity.
In addition 7 of the 8 units we operate are pressurized water reactors with redundant cooling systems and multi-layered containment systems.
In fact our Florida PWRs are battle tested having maintained plant and public safety through several direct and nearly direct hit by major hurricanes including Andrew Francis Jean and Wilma.
The one boiling water reactor in our fleet the Duane Arnold Energy Center in Iowa is not in an active seismic zone has a higher flood margin than the Japanese plant and stores backup diesel generator fuel underground in a steel-reinforced concrete structure.
Simply put the drivers for a Japanese-style nuclear event are highly unlikely at any of the NextEra Energy nuclear units.
Going forward I remain optimistic that nuclear power will play a significant role in our nation's energy mix.
For our part we are on schedule with our existing plan to boost the output of our nuclear fleet through a series of uprates to the nonnuclear components of the plants.
Now with regard to new nuclear our position is unchanged.
We still plan to move forward in a stepwise fashion to create the option to build 2 additional units at the site of our Turkey Point plant.
Creating the option at this stage is limited to obtaining the necessary federal state and local approvals.
At Florida Power &amp; Light we had a strong first quarter.
Net income was up roughly 7% over the prior-year comparable quarter primarily due to increased investment in the business.
Those investments have allowed FPL to provide its customers with 99.98% service reliability and to significantly improve the efficiency of our power generation fleet saving customers hundreds of millions of dollars in fuel costs.
During the first quarter FPL had roughly 30 000 more customers than we had a year earlier.
In fact we've now added customers for 5 quarters in a row.
We think this is a positive commentary on the slow but steady improvement in the Florida economy.
The biggest area of concern remains the unemployment rate which is at a stubbornly high 11.1%.
Housing prices in Florida may show further declines but the market has clearly repriced itself making the state a much more attractive destination.
On the development front we are nearing completion of the West County Energy Center Unit 3.
The addition of 1 220 megawatts of highly efficient combined-cycle gas generation to our system is a triple win.
When it comes online the new unit will save customers money on fuel reduce air emissions and start to provide shareholders with a cash return on their investment.
Construction is also under way on the modernization of our Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach power plants.
When complete in 2013 and 2014 respectively these modernizations will add 2 420 megawatts of even more fuel-efficient combined-cycle generation to our fleet.
We were also pleased to dedicate our Martin Next Generation Solar Energy Center in the first quarter.
The 75-megawatt Martin facility is the first in the world to combine a solar thermal array with an existing combined-cycle natural gas plant which is a more efficient way of deploying solar thermal technology than on a stand-alone basis.
FPL has now completed all 110 megawatts of solar power allowed under the 2008 legislation enacted in the state.
The net cost to the average customer using 1 000 kilowatt hours of electricity is expected to be less than $0.25 a month on average over the lives of these assets.
Solar power holds great potential for Florida.
It can boost fuel diversity create good-paying construction jobs reduce air emissions and attract research and development dollars to the state.
We continue to look forward to working with the state's regulatory and political leaders to expand the state's solar generating capacity in the future.
On the Energy Resources side of our business we had a mixed quarter.
Our existing assets performed extremely well.
I was particularly pleased that we generated nearly 1 million additional megawatt hours or a 21% increase from our wind fleet than we did in the prior-year's comparable quarter mostly on the strength of the wind resource.
However low power prices continue to impact our merchant assets and our full requirements business experienced more customer migration than we expected.
You've heard me say for some time that we believe solar has the potential to be the next wind industry for NextEra Energy and we are pleased with the progress we made on our solar strategy in the first quarter.
Of particular note was our success in securing lines of credit for our two 49.9-megawatt solar thermal arrays that we are building in Spain.
Lines of credit limit our financial exposure associated with the risks associated with potential future changes in the Spanish renewable tariff to an amount significantly less than the capital cost of the project.
We believe the economics of Spain solar remain attractive and we expect the project to help drive the company's earnings starting in 2013.
Here at home we are very encouraged that California enacted into law a robust renewable portfolio standard.
The law requires load-serving entities to obtain 33% of their power from renewable sources by 2020.
With this move California has made itself one of the most attractive renewable energy markets in the nation and we look forward to doing additional business in the state.
On the wind development front we have signed long-term power purchase agreements or PPAs on 400 megawatts of projects so far in 2011.
That brings the total number of wind PPAs to 1 638 megawatts since the beginning of last year.
Of particular note 953 megawatts of these PPAs are for projects we expect to commission in 2011 and 2012 demonstrating our commitment to lining up customers for wind energy early in the process.
We are also seeing a noticeable spike in the number of requests for proposals being issued for wind energy.
With the economics of wind improving as a result of better turbine technology and lower turbine prices wind PPA contracts are very attractively priced.
As a result more buyers are stepping up to take advantage of these prices.
While earnings at Energy Resources are by their very nature more volatile than they are at FPL I want to emphasize once again how well hedged we are on the competitive side of our business.
For 2011 96% of our gross margin at Energy Resources is protected from swings in commodity prices and for 2012 the figure is already 91%.
By 2014 we expect that approximately 80% of our adjusted EBITDA will come from investments that are either regulated or long-term contracted up from 74% in 2010.
This reflects our continued focus on investing in regulated assets at FPL and long-term contracted assets at Energy Resources.
As we continue to grow the business we believe this strategy will allow us to continue to deliver strong shareholder returns to our investors.
With that I'll turn the call over to Armando Pimentel before returning for some closing comments.
Armando? Thank you Lew and good morning to everyone.
In the first quarter of 2011 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $268 million or $0.64 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2011 first quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $392 million and $0.94 respectively.
The difference between the GAAP and adjusted results is the exclusion of the mark in our nonqualifying hedge category and the exclusion of net other than temporary impairments on certain investments or OTTI.
For the first quarter 2011 Florida Power &amp; Light reported net income of $205 million or $0.49 per share.
For the term of the 2010 base rate agreement FPL's earnings will largely be a function of its rate base and return on equity.
As we indicated in the fourth quarter 2010 earnings call we believe that FPL realized a retail regulatory ROE at or near 11% during each of 2011 and 2012 subject to the normal caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
For the terms of the settlement agreement FPL won't be able to amortize surplus depreciation to offset most of the variability in its normal operations including the fluctuations due to weather.
During the first quarter FPL's contribution to earnings per share increased $0.02 relative to the prior year's comparable quarter driven primarily by allowance for funds used during construction or AFUDC for West County Energy Center #3 returns on clause-related investments including Martin Solar and a nuclear uprate and rate-based growth which was partially offset by share dilution.
During the quarter we recognized $99 million in surplus depreciation on a pretax basis.
We currently do not expect to amortize the full amount of surplus depreciation in 2011 that is available to us under the base rate agreement.
We are continuing to see improvements in some of our key customer metrics.
The table on the upper left shows the change in retail kilowatt-hour sales in the quarter versus last year's comparable period.
Overall retail kilowatt-hour sales fell by 6.2% a decline due primarily to lower weather-related usage and partially offset by an increase in customer growth.
In the first quarter heating degree days were modestly below normal and well below the record heating degree days experienced in the prior-year comparable quarter.
Nonweather-related or underlying usage and all other declined by 0.2%.
As depicted in the graph in the upper right-hand corner during the first quarter of 2011 we had roughly 30 000 more customers than we did in the comparable period of 2010.
The graph on the bottom left of the page shows inactive and low-usage customers which we believe are indicative of the level of empty homes in our service territory.
In March the percentage of low-usage customers experienced its first monthly decline since September 2010.
The number of inactive residential meters has declined for 6 months in a row.
Perhaps contributing to these improvements is the fact that homes in FPL markets are continuing to become more affordable.
As depicted in the graph on the bottom right the current housing affordability index which measures the percentage of medium-income families who can afford a home is now 66% for Miami.
That is up from 11% of the peak of the boom in late 2006 and close to the national average of 73%.
As you can also see in the graph affordability in several of our other cities is now above the national average.
Traditionally housing affordability has been one of Florida's advantages and we believe Florida will continue to be a very attractive destination to which people and industry will move.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources.
We are pleased that since the beginning of the year we secured approximately 400 megawatts in wind PPAs all of which are for projects we plan to put into service into 2011 or 2012.
We will talk more about the current wind generation development and contracting environment in a couple of minutes.
During the quarter we completed a review of the estimated useful life of the wind turbines we had in our portfolio as of January 1 2011.
As you know we have an ongoing obligation to revisit the assumptions used to account for our assets including the assumptions that drive the estimated useful life.
Over time the technology employed in wind turbines has improved.
With proper maintenance we believe our fleet will last longer than previously estimated.
As a result of this review we have extended the estimated useful life for our newer wind turbine fleet to 30 years which is roughly in the middle of our updated view of the probable range of useful life.
For the assets already in service the after-tax impact of the change in assumption for the first quarter was roughly $0.025 per share.
For full year 2011 the impact is expected to be roughly $0.105 per share.
We will have more to say on the impact of our -- to our forward adjusted EPS expectations in a moment.
During April we completed another differential membership transaction relating to 483 megawatts of wind capacity encompassing 5 projects.
This transaction which is similar to the one we completed in the third quarter of 2010 represents a unique structure for Energy Resources in which the differential membership investor makes an initial up-front payment and will make additional payments over time tied to the energy production of the wind projects.
The structure allows us to raise tax equity for existing projects that have been previously financed with project debt.
We continue to seek opportunities to minimize the growth of our deferred production tax credits or PTCs on our balance sheet and the availability of this structure will allow us to receive compensation for future PTCs before we would have otherwise been able to monetize them.
As Lew noted we closed on lines of credit this week for our solar thermal arrays that we are building in Spain which has made available to us roughly EUR 590 million or approximately $875 million.
The lines of credit limit our financial exposure associated with potential future changes in the Spanish renewable tariff to an amount significantly less than the capital cost of the projects.
Just as with all of our other projects we retained construction and performance risk which we believe we are well prepared to address.
These lines of credit are important steps in the development of these projects and we are very pleased to be moving forward.
As we indicated to you at our May 2010 investor conference we believe these projects will provide attractive returns and valuable experience in the expanding market for solar generation.
We continue to expect to bring online both of the 49.9-megawatt units in 2013.
Energy Resources reported first quarter 2011 GAAP earnings of $65 million or $0.16 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter which exclude the effect of nonqualifying hedges and net OTTI were $189 million or $0.46 per share.
Energy Resources' first quarter adjusted EPS decreased $0.01 from last year's comparable quarter.
New wind and solar investment contributions were flat relative to last year.
Results increased $0.02 due to the contributions from assets placed into service in the first quarter of 2010 that were available for a full quarter in 2011 as well as our ability to recognize state investment tax credits on some of our wind projects.
These positive items were offset by lower expected contributions from convertible investment tax credits or CITCs for 2011.
Regarding our 2011 CITC elections we concluded during the first quarter that it was probable that we would elect to take CITCs on roughly 275 megawatts of new wind projects we expect to be completed during 2011.
Ultimately we believe our elections will likely range between 275 and 375 megawatts depending on a variety of factors including when the assets are placed into service.
This is down from our previous expectations largely as a result of converting certain potential CITC projects to PTC projects as a result of refining and evaluating their overall economics.
For reference we elected CITCs on 603 megawatts of new wind projects in 2010 and had assumed 600 megawatts of annual elections in last year's first quarter.
The difference in the estimated CITC annual elections reduced adjusted EPS by approximately $0.02 relative to the comparable quarter.
Assuming the lower end of our 2011 CITC range the full year impact would be approximately $0.08 relative to the prior year.
In aggregate the existing asset portfolio contributed $0.10 relative to the prior-year comparable quarter.
Existing wind assets contributed approximately $0.17 per share as compared to the year-ago period of which $0.10 was due to an improved wind resource and lower curtailments.
The wind resource was approximately 93% of normal which was an improvement relative to the prior-year comparable quarter 80%.
The remaining $0.07 was a result of our ability to recognize state investment tax credits on some of our wind projects and a lower depreciation expense due to the change in the depreciable life of some of our wind assets slightly offset by unfavorable pricing.
Seabrook and Maine Hydro contributed $0.06 less than in the prior-year's comparable quarter primarily due to lower priced hedges.
Weak market conditions and higher O&amp;M due to planned outages affecting our merchant Texas gas assets resulted in $0.02 lower adjusted earnings per share.
The customer supply in power and gas trading businesses are down $0.07 due primarily to our wholesale full requirements business as well as the absence of the sale of a favorable supply contract completed in the first quarter of 2010.
During this year's first quarter we realized a negative impact from customer migration in our wholesale full requirements business costing us roughly $0.03 on an adjusted basis.
Also in last year's first quarter the sale of a power supply contract in this business increased adjusted EPS by approximately $0.03.
Asset sales contributed a negative $0.03 entirely due to the absence of the benefit associated with last year's sale of our interest in a 27-megawatt waste-to-energy facility located in Pennsylvania.
All other factors contributed negative $0.01 per share associated with higher interest expense due to higher borrowings and higher corporate G&amp;A both from growth of the business.
As we mentioned earlier since the beginning of the year we signed new power purchase agreements for 400 megawatts of new wind projects.
This brings us to a total of 953 megawatts of projects for which we have contracts and expect to commission in 2011 and 2012 and 1 638 megawatts of PPAs we have signed since the beginning of 2010.
Given the high level of visibility we have for the 2011 and 2012 pipelines we believe that we will add -- we will be able to add between 1 400 to 2 000 megawatts of wind before the end of 2012.
We have however a little less visibility than in prior years as to the amount we may add in the current year primarily as a result of some timing issues associated with permitting.
So although we feel fairly confident on the build over the next couple of years we believe meeting the bottom end of our previous 700- to 1 000-megawatt range in 2011 will be a challenge.
Turning briefly to asset acquisitions.
As we have indicated to you many times we are as interested in acquiring contracted clean generation projects as we are in building them ourselves as long as the returns are attractive.
We are not however interested in purchasing or developing any additional assets outside of North America for the foreseeable future.
In addition to acquiring assets you should also expect that we will continuously look at our entire portfolio of existing assets to make sure that we are optimizing the value of those assets.
In some circumstances it may mean that we would sell certain of our existing assets.
Currently we are exploring the potential sale of 5 of our natural gas-fired assets at Energy Resources including Blythe a 507-megawatt plant in California; RIEC [Rhode Island Energy Center] a 550-megawatt plant in Rhode Island; Doswell a 879-megawatt plant in Virginia; Cherokee a 98-megawatt plant in South Carolina; and Calhoun a 668-megawatt plant in Alabama.
While there are attractive aspects for each of these assets they have a limited strategic fit within our portfolio.
As such we are investigating whether or not these assets may possess a higher strategic value to another owner.
At this time we can give no assurance that an actual sale will take place.
To summarize 2011's first quarter results on an adjusted basis FPL contributed $0.49 Energy Resources contributed $0.46 and Corporate and Other was a negative $0.01 contribution.
That is a total of $0.94 per share for the quarter.
Before turning the call back over to Lew I wanted to spend a couple of minutes discussing our adjusted EPS expectations.
As we indicated earlier the change in the assumption regarding the estimated useful life for a portion of our wind fleet has a positive impact on adjusted EPS in the quarter and it is expected to have roughly a $0.105 positive impact on full year 2011 adjusted EPS.
Solely as a result of this change we are increasing our adjusted EPS expectations to a range of $4.35 to $4.65 from the previous range of $4.25 to $4.55.
When we initially provided long-term adjusted EPS expectations at the May 2010 investor conference the 5% to 7% average annual growth rate through 2014 was relative to a 2009 base.
However the change in the estimated useful life assumption renders future years' comparison to 2009 less relevant.
As a result we are updating our long-term expectation and we believe that our adjusted EPS will grow at an average of 5% to 7% per year through 2014 relative to a 2011 base subject to all the usual caveats that we provide.
As we have indicated before we believe public policy support for wind generation development will ultimately be extended beyond 2012.
Historically wind has enjoyed public policy support under both Republican and Democratic leadership and our current views is that we will continue to be successful in developing and owning wind plants for many years to come.
However we would like to put into context the impact of a potential slowdown in our expected wind build after the current federal policy on wind energy expires.
If we were to assume no additions of wind assets to our operations after 2012 our adjusted EPS compounded annual growth rate would continue to be within the range of 5% to 7% through 2014 from a 2011 base.
With that let me now turn the call back over to Lew for some closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks Armando.
I'd like to conclude this morning with a few observations about the policy framework in which the electric power industry operates.
Since the election of last fall many pundits have predicted a sea change in the nation's approach to energy policy.
That strikes me as premature.
Yes it's true that cap and trade is off the table for the foreseeable future but in other ways efforts to make the nation's energy supply cleaner more efficient and more diverse are proceeding apace.
In March the Environmental Protection Agency released its proposed rule to tighten limits on how much mercury and other toxic air pollutants power plants are permitted to release.
And in the months and years ahead the agency will be moving forward with regulations on coal ash particulate matter SOx and NOx.
I don't believe that replacing 50-year-old fossil plants with new more efficient units will be the train wreck we have been hearing so much about nor do I believe that putting pollution controls on many of the remaining plants is all that terrible.
As an aside it is interesting to note that 2/3 of our nation's coal fleet is without meaningful pollution controls.
While there is no free lunch the cost of this upgrade to the nation's generation fleet is likely to be far less than the costliest predictions.
Consider our own utility.
In 2010 FPL recorded a SO2 emissions rate 76% below the industry average a NOx emissions rate 65% below the industry average and a CO2 emissions rate 36% below the industry average.
Yet despite having one of the cleanest generation fleets of any utility in the nation FPL's typical residential customer bills were 24% below the national average at the year-end 2010.
We are  proof that utility can be clean and cost-effective at the same time.
In addition to EPA action I still believe bipartisan action is possible on energy legislation that would encourage cleaner generation and greater fuel diversity.
With the cost of renewables such as wind and solar photovoltaic coming down so dramatically over the last couple of years one of the principal objections to a national clean energy standard is now far less compelling.
On a final note I want to extend a special thanks to the 15 000 employees of NextEra Energy.
Last month NextEra Energy was ranked #1 in its sector on Fortune Magazine's Most Admired Companies list for the fifth consecutive year.
No other company in our sector has ever done that.
Just as impressive we are ranked as the 10th most admired company in the world for social responsibility.
Less than 2 weeks later we were named one of the world's most ethical companies by Ethisphere Magazine.
We are one of only 24 companies worldwide to appear on the list all 5 years of its existence.
These accomplishments are possible only through the commitment of our employees and I want to thank them all.
With that I'll turn the call over to the conference moderator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
A couple of questions.
First maybe Armando could you give a little bit of color on the thought process between the CITCs and the PTCs and how that's changing just so we understand kind of how that thought process there.
You want to ask your second question or is that...
The second question is related to the potential gas asset sale and just conceptually should -- if there's any tax gain should you be able to use your deferred tax against that? And if you could the tax basis of those assets? Okay.
Let me give you some input on both of those.
Your first question was on the change that we're talking about today.
I think in the last couple of quarters we've indicated that for 2011 we were looking at CITCs in the range of 400 to 550 megawatts.
And today I said in the first quarter we were using 275 megawatts.
What's happened really over the last I'd say 3 to 6 months is -- and we always continually do this.
We always continually look at our projects to determine whether ultimately they should be CITC or PTC projects.
We've continued to see -- I mean this isn't something that certainly caught us by surprise in the last month or so but we have continued to see improvements in technology.
And we've been able to use that technology in some of our previously identified sites not in all previously identified sites and it has kind of flipped the switch on the economics from CITC to regular production tax credit projects.
Now part of that obviously is we continue to be comfortable with our tax position but our deferred tax assets had been rising and we know they've been rising according to our forecast.
That doesn't surprise me or concern me.
But the other part of this is that the tax equity market has really come back pretty aggressively I'd say in the last 9 months or so.
And so when we are thinking about the economics of a wind project particularly switching from CITC to PTC it's both an economic view of the project with wind turbine technology obviously being a big part of that but it's also the financing of the project.
And with the tax equity market coming back pretty aggressively we've been able to turn several of our CITC projects to PTC projects.
So there's nothing else in there.
There's nothing nefarious in there other than I think it makes good sense for us to switch some of those projects over.
Your second question regarding the sale or the proposed -- the exploring if you will I want to be clear on that us exploring whether there's a market for those 5 gas assets.
First and foremost that really has to do with how they strategically fit into our portfolio.
Those assets are great assets.
We love all of our assets as Jim Robo always like to say.
But in this time when we are seeing what's happening with other sales out there it makes a lot of sense for us to explore these.
We would absolutely in our view have a large taxable gain associated with the sale of these assets.
A large taxable gain would be something that we would be able to use our deferred production tax credits to offset I would say significantly.
A good rule of thumb is you can offset 75% of your taxable gain with production tax credits and we certainly have -- would have enough production tax credits to be able to reduce that gain.
Okay.
That's great.
I'd rather have -- just on the first point rather have the long-term PTC credits expanded as many CITCs.
So for good reason too so okay.
Steve let me just add one thing.
These were projects that had great returns with CITC.
But because of the technology and the amount of wind energy being produced even with a deferral using the PTCs the economics are that much better.
Are the capacity factors just getting so much better on the new turbines? Yes basically.
I mean good wind resource and that gives us good capacity factors but the technology gives us even better capacity factors.
And as we've said several times before the capital costs are quite attractive.
So that combination just makes the PTC scenario economically superior to the CITC scenario.
We'll take our next question from Jay Dobson with Wunderlich Securities.
Armando on the better earnings guidance you're providing for '11 I knew you mentioned it was solely related to the lower depreciation from longer estimated useful lives.
But it did change as you indicated the CITC election and I agree with Steve.
I like the PTCs better.
But how would you have us think about the $0.10 benefit versus the $0.08 drag? Is there some underlying optimism you hold in the business? Or maybe help us understand what you're trying to say there.
I think -- not I think but the only thing you should be focusing on for that $0.10 increase because I tried to be clear in my prepared remarks was the change in depreciation.
You brought up a point about the change in CITCs I just want to kind of clear that up.
We had a range of 400 to 550 in our plan.
And I said in the first quarter that we've taken -- that we're assuming 275 for the year but really a range of 275 to 375.
You should assume -- well I will tell you it would be a good assumption for you to assume that our previous estimates had the lower end of the 400 to 550 megawatts of CITC.
So the difference between 400 and a 275 to 375 range is really not that significant.
So bottom line is as I tried to say in my prepared remarks the range is going up solely as a result of the change in the depreciation and we wanted to be very transparent on that.
That's great.
Thanks for the clarity.
On the Spanish Solar LLC [ph] what exactly is your exposure? Could you sort of rough that out for us? I'm not going to be able to give you Jay a number.
One of the things that was important for us to get done in our Spanish project was -- we're always very comfortable that when we enter into a construction project that we cannot ultimately get it done on time and on budget but when we get it done it actually works the way it was designed to work initially.
Those are the types of risks that we take on in any project and we have those risks in Spain and we feel very comfortable with those.
One of the risks that we have not taken in the past is what I'll call -- this is probably too long of a title -- but feed-in tariff country credit risk.
And this isn't to imply that I'm at all concerned with Spanish sovereign credit but it is something new for us.
And what we wanted to do in this transaction was limit the exposure that we would have that our equity would have to a potential change in that feed-in tariff during the construction cycle of the project.
Now before I go on let me first say we certainly don't expect any changes in the tariff.
We believe it's a great tariff.
We believe that the government and industry over there has done a great job of putting something together that should be good for Spain itself and for the utilities and for the Spanish people for a very long period of time but we're a little risk-averse on that.
And so the structure we put together allows us to limit our exposure to our equity investment which will be roughly $250 million or so plus some amount.
And the plus some amount gets complicated and I'm not going to go into it on the call.
But the $250 million or so plus this additional amount is far lower than our expected construction cost overall construction cost in Spain which should be over USD $1 billion.
That's great and I appreciate the clarity.
And then last thing on the growth rate I didn't quite follow where you were taking us.
I see the 5% to 7%.
I see it's off a new base here.
But then you added in the end if you had no renewable growth you still expected the 5% to 7%.
Is that to say you expect less growth in Energy Resources? Or is that -- how should we interpret the metric you're offering there? No it's -- I'm certainly not saying the latter.
It's something that we've actually said before but I'm not sure it's been picked up.
I said it for the first time back in our investor conference in May of 2011.
I do not recall my exact words but I said something to the effect that even if Energy Resources wind build gets cut back significantly from the estimates that we provide here today which is back in May 2010 we would expect to continue to meet our 5% to 7% guidance.
It's really a repeat of what I said in May 2010.
Our wind projects are great projects.
They're very accretive to us.
During the first couple of years though it isn't significant accretion to really change in this case the 5% to 7% materially.
So I'm not -- this isn't a red herring if you will.
This is just -- I'm just reemphasizing something I said in May 2010.
I will add there's nothing that we see today that would prevent us with the appropriate public policy from building a 700 to 1 000 megawatts of wind in 2013 and 2014 as we've said that before.
But it's really something that some investors have been asking about with a concern about wind policy expiring at the end of 2012.
So it's really just a repeat of what I said about a year ago.
So simply put Jay we have enough other growth opportunities that even if the downside scenario that Armando described earlier about less wind development we can still achieve the 5% to 7% growth that we're talking about.
That's all we're saying.
That's perfect.
We'll take our last question from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Thanks for the up-front transparency on the wind turbines stuff but I was just wondering what was the previous life expectancy of the unit? It's from 25 to 30 years.
Okay.
And is there a specific thing that you guys are doing that's enhancing it? Is it some maintenance item? Or is this just something that you think is sort of an industry-wide thing? I think it's a combination.
First of all we do most of our own maintenance.
That's not something that's done across the industry but -- so I think we got to take a little credit for that.
But secondly certainly the technology of these wind turbines have been improving year in and year out.
When you combine both of those with our actual experience -- and we've been looking at this for quite a while.
When you combine that with our actual experience we think that the new 30-year life is in the middle of an expected range.
Okay.
Is there specific technology like a specific manufacturer that you'd say is kind of responsible for this? Or is this again just something that you're seeing with all the manufacturers? We don't buy from everybody Paul.
I can assure that.
I do know that.
I'm sorry.
Yes.
And so I wouldn't say we did it to some and didn't do it to others.
But I will add that I said newer wind turbines.
Those are really the 1-megawatt machines and above.
And we still have some machines that are less than 1-megawatt in our portfolio that we did not change the useful life for.
Okay.
And then just on the new investment on Slide 20.
That seemed to be -- your projections there for 2012 seemed to be coming down and I was wondering what was causing that.
Like always on these gross margin slides for 2012 there's always puts and takes.
I think the first thing to remember which I have to repeat every time we talk to this talk about the next year out on the slide there are no new investments in these slides.
So whatever we expect to build in 2012 has not yet been incorporated into the gross margins slide so it's important for everybody to realize that.
The biggest change -- there's roughly a $60 million or so reduction in the gross margin from the midpoint.
The biggest change is actually a couple of projects that we have moved from 2011 to 2012 so they were going to have a full year of earnings in 2012 because we got them in 2011.
Now that they've been moved back to 2012 there's very little earnings associated with those projects because we haven't included new investments in the 2012 slides.
That's the majority of it.
There's a couple of puts and takes but that's more than 80% of it.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Burnett with Morningstar.
A couple of quick questions.
I noticed the usage in Florida down a little bit over 6%.
I'm wondering what your guidance for the year sort of assumes continuing from that little bit of a slide in the first quarter? The 6% Mark is virtually all related to weather.
If you look at the heating degree days -- and we provide this actually in the earnings release.
If you don't have a copy of it yet you can get it from our website.
But heating degree days for the first quarter of 2011 were about 229 normal is about 256.
But last year's first quarter was 587 so more than double of what we had this year.
And so as I mentioned on the call virtually all of the reduction is related to weather.
In terms of customer growth and I'd say usage regular usage or nonweather-related usage combined we were pretty close to what we believed we would be doing in the first quarter.
Yes I've seen the slides and whatnot.
I'm just trying to get an idea for what you're expecting for the remainder of the year.
For customer growth we came in at 0.7% for the quarter and that's actually our estimate for the year.
Okay.
Second question I guess I know you don't want to talk too much about it but obviously lots of deals.
Nat gas plants you're looking at your portfolio.
Can you talk about some of the fundamentals driving this activity and maybe what you're considering when you're looking at putting those plants up? Yes.
Well the first thing that we actually considered was just a strategic view of the plant and the territories that we're in.
For the most part not in every part but for the most part these plants are in regions that we don't have a whole bunch of assets in.
Again not for all of them but for the most part.
Secondly we've certainly been seeing activity out in the market.
Some of that activity has been attractive and we thought it would be the right time to explore the opportunity to sell those assets.
But it started with our view that those were not necessarily strategic assets for us.
And once we made that determination it was really a matter of how many plants do you put into a potential sale portfolio.
And our last question will be a follow-up question from Steve Fleishman.
Your commentary on RFPs was a lot more bullish than we've heard in a while.
Could you just give a little bit of color on what's going on in the market? What are the dynamics? A couple of things Steve.
One I think as I've said before one of the things that I personally believe would drive additional RFPs and additional requests was an improvement in the economy improvement in load growth and we've seen that.
We've clearly seen that.
We showed slides in the past.
And so I think some of the utility companies are feeling a little bit more comfortable about long-term power purchase agreement.
That's one.
Secondly is we've seen a confluence of events here in I'd say the last 6 to 9 months and that confluence of events we talked about a little bit before which is really the reduction in capital costs and the improvement in technology.
I mean we're going from 80-meter tower 80-meter blades to 100-meter tower 100-meter blades.
You're improving the wind capture the production if you will by 20% to 30%.
At the same time you are seeing and we are seeing turbine cost from 2008 compared today roughly down 20%.
If you put both of those things together along with the improvement that folks are seeing in load and the economy I think that's what we're seeing.
There are more people coming to ask "What about wind? What about wind?" It continues to be the most economical renewable in our view.
So I think it's that combination.
Steve this is Jim.
I'd just add that it's not just RFPs.
In fact we are proactively going out and talking to all our customers in the wind space and letting them know that this is an unprecedented time for them to be able to buy wind very attractively.
And it hasn't been this attractive in certainly more than 5 or 6 years from our customer's standpoint.
And so we are proactively going out and getting a lot of traction with our customers around just talking about how attractive a time it is if you combine that with the uncertainty in the post-2012 in the wind federal incentive regime and that combination of factors is leading folks to really start to step up in a bigger way than we've seen in quite some time.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our question-and-answer session today.
I would like to thank you all for your participation in today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Rebecca Kujawa.
Ms.
Kujawa please go ahead now.
Thank you Rufus.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Lew Hay NextEra Energy's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will provide an overview of NextEra Energy's performance and recent accomplishments.
Lew will be followed by Armando Pimentel our Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the specifics of our financial results.
Also joining us this morning are Jim Robo President and Chief Operating Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Olivera President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company; and Mitch Davidson President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources LLC which we will refer to with the subsidiaries as Energy Resources in this presentation.
Following our prepared remarks our senior management team will be available to take your questions.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward looking.
These statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements.
If any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release and the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found on the Investors section of our website www.nexteraenergy.com we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Lew Hay.
Lew? Okay.
Thank you Rebecca.
Good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that NextEra Energy had strong performance in the second quarter.
We grew adjusted earnings per share be approximately 6% over the prior year comparable quarter.
Our strategy of investing in clean renewable and efficient generation continues to drive solid results.
We're executing well while continuing to enhance our generation portfolio by weighting it significantly toward regulated and long-term contracted opportunities that should enhance shareholder value.
At Florida Power &amp; Light Company we had a strong second quarter.
Net income was up approximately 14% over the prior year comparable quarter primarily due to increased investment in the business.
Over the quarter FPL averaged more than 10 000 additional customers than we had in the first 3 months of the year.
In Florida our biggest area of concern remains the difficult employment climate in the state with an unemployment rate of 10.6% as of June 2011 which gears the depressed national employment market.
However even in a difficult economy our generation portfolio development pipeline at FPL -- our generation portfolio and our development pipeline at FPL is setting the pace for the industry providing significant operating efficiencies sustainable environmental performance and strong customer benefits.
The uprate work at our St.
Lucie and Turkey Point nuclear facilities in Florida is proceeding.
We expect that these investments which will add about 450 megawatts of clean reliable emission-free energy to our portfolio will save FPL customers about $4.6 billion to $4.8 billion in fuel costs over the life of the plants.
We've brought the third unit of our West County Energy Center online on time and on budget.
This unit adds approximately 1 220 megawatts to what is now the nation's largest combined-cycle natural-gas-fired power plant.
This facility increases the efficiency of FPL's generation fleet saves our customers money on fuel and reduces air emissions.
In June we moved forward with the construction of the modernized $1.3 billion Riviera Beach Next-Generation Clean Energy Center by demolishing the boilers the stacks and related equipment at the Riviera Beach plant.
If you haven't taken a chance to look at it there's a nice little clip on YouTube kind of fun to watch.
We expect the modernized plant to come online in 2014.
In addition the modernization of our Cape Canaveral plant is progressing well and is on track to meet its planned 2013 start date.
These 2 combined cycle facilities at an estimated cost of $2.4 billion are expected to be among the most efficient natural gas plants in the nation and we estimate that they will provide customers $850 million to $950 million in net savings over the life of the plants.
Now we indicated in FPL's 10-year site plan that we would need to bring new capacity online in 2016 to meet our projected load obligations.
Earlier this month we took an initial step to seek state regulatory approval to modernize the Port Everglades facility.
Like West County Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach we expect a modernized Port Everglades to offer considerable customer benefits through fuel and other savings that exceed the revenue requirements over the life of the project.
If it were to come online in 2016 as proposed the Port Everglades modernization would cost roughly $1.2 billion and would use about 35% less fuel per megawatt hour and provide customers with more than $400 million in estimated net savings over the life of the plants.
If this project moves forward our investment in the Port Everglades modernization would make FPL's generation fleet even more efficient.
We project a 21% efficiency improvement in our fossil system heat rate from 2001 through 2016 amounting to about $1.3 billion in annual fuel savings in 2016 compared to a 2001 baseline.
These investments in Florida Electric Infrastructure also provides a significant benefit to customers in terms of efficiency and reliability.
In fact FPL customers now enjoy 99.98% service reliability.
Now turning to NextEra Energy Resources.
Our existing wind fleet produced an additional 766 000 megawatt hours of electricity or a 13% increase compared to the year-ago comparable quarter driven primarily by an improved wind resource.
In addition the 909 megawatts of assets that we added during or since the second quarter of 2010 made a positive contribution to results in the second quarter.
Challenges in the quarter included the extended refueling outages at the Seabrook and Point Beach nuclear facilities as well as impairments of certain assets in West Texas and in the Northeast.
While the duration of Seabrook and Point Beach outages was longer than we had anticipated both facilities are now back online and operating well.
A positive outcome of the extended Point Beach outage was that we completed the uprate work on unit 2.
We expect the increased output from the units to be more than our earlier estimates of 80 megawatts and note that all incremental power resulting from the uprate investments will be sold under a long-term contract.
Since our first earning -- first quarter earnings call we signed long-term power purchase agreements on 632 megawatts of new wind projects.
Roughly 469 megawatts of that amount results from the recently signed series of contracts for projects in Ontario Canada which we currently expect to be online before the end of 2014.
This represents a significant investment and demonstrates our commitment to growing our renewable footprint in Canada supported by long-term contracts.
We're excited about the continued prospects from Canada and with the announcement of these projects we will be one of the largest owners of wind generation in Canada.
Additionally we have signed a 23-year contract for an average of approximately 50 megawatts of generation from our Seabrook Station nuclear facility.
It's certainly been a good quarter in terms of contracting our future revenue and I'm proud of the teams that continue to work hard to get this done.
With that I'll turn the call over to Armando before returning for some closing comments.
Armando? Thank you Lew and good morning everyone.
In the second quarter 2011's NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $580 million or $1.38 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2011 second quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $500 million and $1.18 respectively.
The difference between the GAAP and adjusted results is the exclusion of the mark in our non-qualifying hedge category and the exclusion of net other than temporary impairments on certain investments or OTTI.
For the second quarter of 2011 Florida Power &amp; Light reported net income of $301 million or $0.72 per share.
During the second quarter FPL's contribution to earnings per share increased $0.08 relative to the prior year's comparable quarter driven primarily by rate base growth and returns on clause-related investments including Martin Solar and the nuclear upgrades.
As a reminder for the term of the 2010 base rate agreement FPL's earnings will largely be a function of its rate base and return on equity.
We continue to believe that FPL will realize a retail regulatory ROE at or near 11% during each of 2011 and 2012 subject to the normal caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
For the terms of the base rate agreement we expect that FPL will be able to amortize surplus depreciation to offset most of the variability in its normal operations including the fluctuations due to weather.
As such general weather variability is not expected to affect earnings.
Also keep in mind that because the return on equity is calculated each month on a trailing 12-month basis you should expect to see continued variability in FPL's quarterly earnings.
During the quarter we recognized $31 million in surplus depreciation and amortization bringing the total amount recognized during the first 6 months of the year to $131 million.
For the full year 2011 assuming normal weather and operating conditions we currently expect to amortize between $180 million and $200 million less than the full amount of the surplus depreciation for the year that is available to us under the base rate agreement.
This estimate for 2011 is down from the range of $245 million to $265 million that we provided in our fourth quarter 2010 earnings call largely as a result of the favorable weather experience in the second quarter.
Turning to our customer metrics.
The economic recovery in Florida appears to continue to take hold but the progress is slow and uneven.
As a result some of our key metrics are mixed.
The table in the upper left shows the change in retail kilowatt hour sales in the quarter versus last year's comparable period.
Overall retail kilowatt hour sales increased by 2.8% due primarily to higher weather-related usage and an increase in customers.
In the second quarter cooling degree days were well above normal and higher than the level experienced in the prior year comparable quarter.
Non-weather-related or underlying usage and all other declined by 0.6%.
We continue to look at the overall picture but feel it is too early to have a clear longer-term view on customer usage.
As depicted in the graph in the upper-right-hand corner during the second quarter 2011 we had approximately 28 500 more customers than we did in the comparable period of 2010.
This is the sixth quarter in a row where we have had customer increases compared to the prior year comparable period.
The graph on the bottom left of the page shows inactive and low-usage customers which we believe are indicative of the level of empty homes in our service territory.
Both of these metrics have improved relative to the same time last year.
In fact the number of inactive meters has declined approximately 5% since the end of last year's second quarter.
Regarding the modest sequential increase in inactive meters in June note that prior to the recession we experienced strong seasonal patterns that would result in higher levels of inactive meters during the summer months.
Although we cannot be certain it is possible some seasonality may be appearing again after being largely masked by other drivers during the recession.
The chart at the lower right-hand corner shows weekly unemployment claims in Florida.
The chart shows that initial jobless claims are well below the levels reached during the height of the recession.
Nevertheless the downward trend is slow it's slope is not as steep as we would like to see and we have seen a small uptick in the data since April.
A number of the economic indicators we follow have similar patterns.
There have been improvements from the peak of the recession but progress is slow and at times a bit bumpy.
In an effort to continue to support economic development in Florida we've just created and staffed a new Office of Economic Development to help the governor and local economic development organizations attract businesses to the state.
We believe that when businesses thrive and grow it drives the economy and creates jobs which benefits all of us.
We continue to look for ways to partner with our communities to spur economic development here in Florida.
We are the largest investor in the State of Florida having invested on a cumulative basis approximately $33 billion in infrastructure investments.
In the last 5 years alone that investment total is approximately $12 billion.
Overall we continue to be positive regarding future developments in Florida and believe we have one of the best utility franchises in the country.
Although Florida's economy has not rebounded completely from the recession we are optimistic that the positive attributes of Florida will drive greater long-term growth over a sustained period as compared to other parts of the country.
As such we continue to make significant investments in our regulated businesses in Florida which provide both direct benefits for our customers and earnings growth for our shareholders.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources.
We are pleased that since our first quarter 2011 earnings call we secured approximately 632 megawatts in wind PPAs for new projects of which roughly 469 megawatts are for Canadian projects we plan to put in service in 2013 and 2014.
We were awarded these feed-in tariff contracts earlier this month by the Ontario Power Authority.
The opportunity to develop these projects is consistent with our comments over the last several years indicating that we plan to develop more renewable energy in Canada.
During June we closed the previously announced acquisition of White Oak a 150-megawatt wind facility in Illinois and at the same time we completed the differential membership transaction often referred to as tax equity by others relating to the project.
This is the fourth differential membership transaction we have completed in the last 15 months.
These transactions are attractive as they allow us to allocate the tax attributes of our investments to third-party investors that can more efficiently utilize these benefits.
In essence these transactions allow us to monetize the tax benefits of our investments in a timelier manner.
We will continue to look for opportunities with both our existing portfolio and new investments to structure these tax-benefit-sharing arrangements.
On the solar front our 2 primary solar projects Genesis and Spain continue to move forward.
During the quarter we were notified by the Department of Energy that our Genesis solar project received conditional approval to receive a loan guarantee from the government.
This guarantee would lower the debt financing cost for the project.
Our Spain projects are under construction and are progressing well.
Turning to our nuclear portfolio.
During the quarter refueling outages at our Seabrook Station and Point Beach nuclear plants reduced EPS by $0.09 of which approximately $0.045 was due to the extended portions of the refueling outages.
The Point Beach outage work included work associated with the upgrade of unit 2.
That work consisted of approximately 3 million man hours and produced more than 80 megawatts of additional power.
This is the first of 6 planned upgrades at FPL and Energy Resources nuclear units during the next 2 years.
Energy Resources reported second quarter 2011 GAAP earnings of $239 million or $0.57 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter which exclude the effect of non-qualifying hedges and net OTTI were $159 million or $0.37 per share.
Energy Resources' second quarter adjusted EPS decreased $0.11 from last year's comparable quarter.
These results included a negative $0.08 impact from the previously discussed asset impairment charges.
New wind and solar investment contributions increased $0.03 relative to last year as a result of our adding 909 megawatts of wind and solar during or after the second quarter of 2010.
Our estimate for full year 2011 CITC elections is unchanged from the first quarter at roughly 275 megawatts including the 150 megawatts associated with the differential membership transaction we completed during the quarter.
Although the full year earnings impact is roughly the same under a differential membership transaction the earnings impact is required to be fully recognized in the period the assets are placed into service as opposed to being allocated ratably throughout the year.
In addition this benefit is reported in operating income as opposed to income taxes.
This resulted in a $0.01 increase in contributions from CITC this quarter compared to the prior year comparable quarter.
We estimate that the full year impact of lower CITC elections in 2011 relative to 2010 will be approximately $0.07.
In aggregate the existing asset portfolio contribution was roughly flat relative to the prior year comparable quarter.
Existing wind assets contributed approximately $0.07 per share as compared to the year-ago period driven primarily by an improved wind resource and lower depreciation expense.
These items were partially offset by lower West Texas pricing.
The wind resource was approximately 111% of normal which is an improvement relative to the prior year comparable quarter of 96%.
In the merchant portfolio Seabrook's contribution to earnings decreased $0.09.
The refueling outage at Seabrook reduced earnings by $0.07 per share as compared to the prior year while the remaining $0.02 decrease was largely a result of lower hedge prices partially offset by higher gains in the decommissioning funds.
In contracted generation Point Beach contributed a negative $0.01.
The refueling outage for unit 2 contributed a negative $0.02 substantially all of which was related to the extended portion of the outage.
This was partially offset by higher gains in the decommissioning funds.
White contributed $0.02 relative to last year due to the improved pricing it receives under the new long-term agreement.
The remaining $0.01 of positive contributions from existing assets came from a number of small items none of which is particularly noteworthy.
The customer supply in power and gas trading businesses were down $0.01 due to weakness in the full requirements business.
Power and gas trading were roughly flat.
Asset sales contributed negative $0.01 from the lack of a gain realized in the prior year comparable quarter.
During the quarter we recognized impairment charges associated with certain assets totaling $0.08 per share $0.05 of which is due to an assessment of the fair value of our older wind assets in West Texas as a result of recent market value indications.
An additional $0.02 relates to an impairment taken on a 2039-megawatt of oil-fired facilities in Maine as a result of a recently issued proposed Environmental Protection Agency regulations.
Finally $0.01 relates to the impairment of an older 50-megawatt natural gas peaking facility in Pennsylvania as well as some other impairment costs.
All other factors contributed negative $0.04 per share associated with share dilution and higher interest expense due to higher borrowings from the growth of the business.
In the appendix of this presentation we have included the updated hedging disclosure information that we typically provide in our quarterly earnings report.
For 2011 equivalent gross margin estimates have been updated to reflect actual performance during the second quarter including the impact of the extended outages at Seabrook and Point Beach and the impairment charges.
We have also reduced our expectations for the power and gas trading businesses.
The prevailing lower price and volatility conditions across the power and gas markets have reduced the opportunities we see for these businesses in the near term.
In light of this view we have also reduced our expectations for these businesses in 2012.
All other changes in 2012 were minor.
As a reminder the 2012 slide does not yet include contributions from assets we expect to put in service in 2012.
Now we would like to turn your attention to our wind and solar development pipelines.
As we have discussed over the last 9 months or so obtaining long-term contracts on our wind pipeline opportunities has been a priority for us.
Our intense focus on contracting assets along with an improving economy which benefits energy load and generally better economics is what we believe is driving the improved results we are seeing.
In fact Energy Resources has had plenty of success in 2010 and 2011 by signing 1 823 megawatts of long-term PPAs for new wind projects.
We have signed more long-term PPAs for new wind projects thus far in the first 7 months of 2011 than we did in all of 2010.
As we stand today we now have 1 116 megawatts of long-term contracts for U.S.
and Canadian wind projects that we have already put in service in 2011 or plan to put in service in 2011 and 2012.
In addition this month we were awarded roughly 469 megawatts of contracts with the Ontario Power Authority for assets to be put in service in 2013 and 2014.
Together these projects represent an estimated $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion of planned capital expenditures in wind generation in 2011 and 2012 and $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion expected to be spent in 2013 and 2014.
We are pleased to get an early start on the 2013 and 2014 pipeline particularly with projects not dependent on U.S.
incentive policies.
Although we continue to believe U.S.
renewable policies will support wind development beyond 2012 we are pleased with our continued expansion in Canada.
In addition to our strong wind development pipeline we also have our large solar thermal projects Genesis and Spain as well as some solar PV projects in which we expect to spend approximately $2.3 billion to $2.7 billion between 2011 and 2014.
To summarize 2011 second quarter results on an adjusted basis FPL contributed $0.72 Energy Resources contributed $0.37 and Corporate and Other was a $0.09 contribution for a total $1.18 per share for the current quarter.
Corporate and Other increased $0.10 versus the prior year's comparable quarter primarily due to previously mentioned state tax law changes partially offset by other tax adjustments.
Before turning the call back over to Lew I want to reiterate our view that our adjusted EPS for 2011 will likely fall in a range of $4.35 to $4.65.
We continue to believe that our adjusted EPS will grow at an average of 5% to 7% per year through 2014 relative to a 2011 base subject to all the usual caveats we provide.
Finally we continue to explore the option of selling the gas-fired generation assets that we mentioned last quarter.
The process is moving forward and we plan to update you further on or before the third quarter call.
With that let me turn the call back over to Lew for some closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you Armando.
I want to close with some perspective on why we believe NextEra Energy remains well positioned for growth.
In total we have a strong backlog of approximately $12 billion of committed growth projects including the major capital projects under construction at FPL the contracted wind and solar investments at Energy Resources and the regulated transmission investments at Lone Star Transmission.
Of course our development pipeline includes many other potential projects that we continue to work on.
We expect that by 2014 approximately 80% of our adjusted earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or adjusted EBITDA will come from regulated or long-term contracted businesses.
At FPL we're executing well in the midst of one of our largest-ever development cycles which we believe will drive significant savings for our customers.
The $5.8 billion in major capital projects under construction includes modernizations of Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach uprates at our St.
Lucie and Turkey Point nuclear plants and our Energy Smart Florida smart grid project.
In addition as previously discussed our proposal to modernize the Port Everglades facility would add incremental investment of approximately $1.2 billion through 2016.
We expect all of these projects to improve the long-term affordability and reliability of our service to FPL customers.
At Energy Resources we plan to invest more than $5 billion between 2011 and 2014 in renewable projects for which we already have long-term contracts.
Our wind development pipeline remains robust and we remain confident in our ability to grow our wind fleet by 1 400 to 2 000 megawatts between 2011 and 2012.
As we also discussed today we have already started to build a pipeline of contracted projects we plan to put into service in 2013 and 2014.
In addition to wind we continue to believe solar is an attractive growth opportunity.
We have 415 megawatts of long-term contracts in hand today for projects we plan to put into service between 2011 and 2014.
Construction work at our large solar thermal projects Genesis and Spain Solar is proceeding well.
Finally Lone Star Transmission represents approximately $800 million of capital expenditures that will be rate-regulated in Texas.
We expect construction work on Loan Star's credit line to begin later this year and for the line to be energized in 2013.
All told we have a development backlog that we feel confident in executing and that will provide significant benefits to customers and shareholders alike.
As one of the cleanest energy producers in the country I believe NextEra Energy is well-positioned for the future in the face of increased federal regulatory activity.
We've held ourselves to a higher standards and in doing so we are serving our customers well doing our part for the environment and driving shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call over to the conference moderator for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And for our first question we go to Daniel Eggers with Crdit Suisse.
Lew there's been a lot of M&amp;A activity out in the market again and you guys have been referenced in at least one transaction.
Can you just talk or remind us a little bit about how you guys think about M&amp;A and the strategic direction for NextEra which seemed to go a little different direction on that deal that was talked about? Not exactly sure what deal you're talking about but even if I did know I wouldn't comment specifically on it.
From an M&amp;A standpoint our primary focus really has been on asset acquisitions that augment our portfolio and augment our strategy.
I know there's been a lot of other types of activity going on in the industry today.
But we're very comfortable with our overall position in the industry and we do see opportunities priced right of course that could potentially supplement the growth that -- our organic growth.
Having said that I think you all know us pretty well by now.
We've been pretty much the same team that's been doing this for 10 years or more and we try to be very disciplined in everything we do.
And while we may look at a bunch of things that we think make sense we often find that others place higher value on things that we look at than what we place on it.
So we continue to look but very selective in what we do.
Okay.
And I guess just on renewable policy -- renewable tax policy in the U.S.
with obviously a very dynamic situation around the budget what language or what comments have you guys been hearing as far as potential changes in policy? And if they were to start stripping out things is there any risk of retroactive or nonperformance on 2011 2012 2013 tax policy commitments as you guys see talk today? Yes.
We've heard nothing about anything that would be retroactive about existing projects that have already earned their ability to have PTCs and things of that sort.
And we've heard nothing and frankly the way the laws are written it would be I think almost -- I guess with the government you can never say totally impossible.
But it's pretty ironclad that the ones that we've earned we get.
And I will remind you that quite a few of the projects we've been -- the more recent projects we've been doing the CITC instead of PTCs.
But having said that we have all the reason in the world to be confident that we're going to continue to earn the PTCs from our existing fleet.
Maybe I didn't say that as well as I should have.
With the projects you guys have secured in backlog on the wind side presumably a chunk of them are based on the idea of mitigating the PTC or an ITC.
As you guys understand it if laws were to be changed as part of this budget compromise would the tax benefit underlying some of those contracts be at risk of going away forcing you to reevaluate the backlog commitments? I don't believe so.
All these projects fit within the current wall the current statutes and meet not only that but meet all the Safe Harbor requirements.
And for our next question we go to Steve Fleishman of Bank of America.
Lew or Armando could you -- on this natural gas sale I know you highlighted today a lot of the large capital commitments of new projects.
Is that somewhat aligned kind of with the goal of saying that would be the target of where the proceeds for this potential sale would go to to financing the -- these backlog projects? Not exactly Steve.
I mean before we had this the gas asset sale before we were exploring the sale of those gas assets clearly we had a longer-term plan as to where we were going to get the both the debt and the equity to be able to fulfill these commitments.
I think what I've said specifically on the gas asset sales and again we're still exploring the opportunity I don't know whether it will come to fruition or not but assuming that it does what I've said about any proceeds that we received from those projects is if we have new opportunities new opportunities that we have not yet discussed clearly that would be one avenue where we could use the proceeds to invest in that new commitment.
If there are no new opportunities that come up other than those that we have in the forecast and we've discussed with you then we would use those to try to determine whether we would want to rebalance our capital structure.
Our comments on our capital structure before I think have been relatively clear back starting in May of 2010 which is we want a strong balance sheet we're comfortable with our current credit metrics.
If we were to receive proceeds from an asset sale then we would probably look to rebalance our structure to be consistent with our current structure and not look to necessarily improve or deteriorate from where we currently are.
Okay.
And then I guess secondly on the first quarter call you highlighted increased optimism on RFPs in getting potentially new projects.
Was that really directed mainly to the projects that we saw successful here in the second quarter? Or is that broad comment still relevant to other things that you're looking at? Its still relevant.
We continue to be -- I think Lew mentioned or maybe I mentioned I apologize I forget.
But we've got 1 115 or 1 116 of signed power purchase agreement on wind for projects that we expect to build in 2011 and 2012.
But we also indicated today that we continue to feel comfortable with our '11 and '12 pipeline -- or '11 and '12 goal of 1 400 to 2 000.
So since 1 100 is short of the 1 400 we should assume that there are still a number of opportunities out there that we feel quite comfortable with.
And many that I hope -- I'm not promising anything we're not promising anything.
But some that certainly I would hope to announce in the third quarter call.
And for our next question we go to Greg Gordon with the ISI Group.
What are -- what were the economic drivers or other drivers that led to such a big chunk of PPAs being brought across the goal line in the second quarter? Has something changed in the dynamic either the economic dynamic or the negotiating dynamic with your counterparties in the wind business? And are your target IRRs holding up? A couple of things.
One I think it's right to focus on the second quarter signings but this is really something that started I'd say later or at least the second half of 2010.
We came into this year in January this year with 553 megawatts of contracts in hand for 2011 and 2012 wind.
That was a very large number for us to have in hand for construction when you kind of look back at our history.
In the quarter we signed another 563 megawatts of wind so a little higher than what we came into the year with.
I've got -- 469 of that was a big chunk in Canada where we were awarded 6 projects at one time.
We've been spending time in Canada for now for the last 3 years or so.
And we've gotten some success there.
So I wouldn't -- we're certainly harping on it we're very proud of it we're happy about it we've been working hard on it.
But some of those contracts could have been done in the first quarter as opposed to the second quarter.
Some of the ones in the second quarter could have been signed in the third quarter as opposed to the second quarter.
I think the bigger focus here is the trend.
Really since the second half of 2010 we have been successful in signing long-term agreements up to the point now where we've got over 1 100 megawatts just for '11 and '12 in hand.
So I think it's a variety of factors and I've mentioned them before.
Let me just spend a couple of minutes on increased load where you've got increased economic activity in the U.S.
that's leading to increased load that's a huge positive.
The fact that the tax incentives in the U.S.
at least at this point and at the end of 2012 I think is also moving people to get something done a little sooner.
The economics have improved a little bit.
I talked about the cost have come down the CapEx has come down for these projects.
That's helping with the economics.
All that I think when you put it together in addition to the focus that we put on it at a senior management level has helped.
Your last point on margins as we continue to look at the margins that we're getting across -- on an average basis I think both Lew and I have said there are some contracts that we signed that don't meet this criteria.
But on an average basis we are still getting low double-digit after-tax unlevered returns.
That's what we've said for a number of years we've been getting and on average we're still there.
Great.
A couple other questions.
I may have missed it but can you explain what the $0.08 of impairments exactly were related to in the quarter? What the -- I'm sorry Greg what the...
The $0.08 of impairment charges? Right.
You can think about them in really in 3 buckets.
The first bucket is 3 wind projects that we have in West Texas.
Those wind projects have older turbine technology.
As you and others will recall we changed our depreciable life for what we described as newer wind turbine technology in the first quarter.
These were not changed.
This is older turbine technology.
We actually received -- in April of this year we received an unsolicited offer to buy a couple of those sites.
We weren't looking to sell them but when someone made an offer we decided to enter into some negotiations with them.
Based on the outcome of those negotiations we looking at the accounting rules believed that we had to look at them for impairment.
We did.
And 3 of those projects in West Texas were impaired.
That's about $0.05.
Our fossil plant up in New England that we have oil-fired plant.
Because of the proposed Toxics Rule from the EPA we took a look at that plant.
We took our best shot at what we believed the final outcome of that rule would be.
We wrote that down.
That was a couple of another $0.02.
And then the other $0.01 is really a variety of matters including a small 50-megawatt peaker that we have up in the Northeast.
Great.
Final question.
When we look at your 2012 EBITDA range projections for the different subsegments of the NextEra Energy business it's the -- you've lowered your aspirations for power and gas trading a fair bit and just modestly for customer supply.
What dynamics in the market have caused you to make those adjustments? This isn't -- I'm certainly not comparing us to other folks that are in this business.
I mean we just -- we talk about or folks like to talk about our power and gas trading business quite a bit.
It's still not a significant part of our business.
But if you look at what others have said I mean its not any different than what we're seeing.
There's low volatility there's low prices in this business.
And because of that we just don't believe there's as many opportunities.
We're not pursuing as many opportunities and therefore -- which by the way is okay with us.
I mean we're going to pursue those opportunities that are there that revolve around our assets.
But based on what we saw late in 2010 what we've seen so far in 2011 on that side of the business it just makes sense to reduce our expectations for 2012.
And for our next question we go to Brian Chin with Citigroup.
Can you talk about what has historically been the earnings contribution for energy efficiency programs? Contribution to earnings? Right.
For energy efficiency programs for Florida Power &amp; Light if any.
I would say tiny very tiny.
Its so tiny that I don't -- it's not something I follow.
Okay fair enough.
So that means that the PSCs Tuesday's decision in terms of energy efficiency programs should we assume that that also has a fairly immaterial effect on the earnings outlook as well? Okay.
Well now I understand where you're going now.
So yesterday's -- I think it was yesterday maybe it was -- yesterday was Tuesday.
Yesterday's result at the Public Service Commission we certainly support where they're going.
One of the things that we've certainly been concerned about is the upward pressure in some of our customers' bills as a result of some of the decisions that were reached by prior commission.
So slowing down taking a look at it further but in the meantime not having to adopt the newer efficiency goals we think is the right way to move forward for us and for the commission.
In terms of what that means for the future use of energy which I think Brian is maybe where you're going.
We don't know.
It's not something that we sit back here and try to calculate.
Our primary concern was that any increase in the customers' bills made sense from the customers' standpoint.
And we didn't think that such an aggressive program as that that had been previously proposed was appropriate.
For our next question we go to Jay Dobson with Wunderlich Securities.
Armando I was hoping you could revisit the question I think Steve asked the very end of your answer and try the rebalance capital structure again.
I did not at all understand what you said.
Okay.
Back in 2010 in May we talked about our strong balance sheet our strong capital position.
We indicated a capital structure an adjusted capital structure that was somewhere around 50% debt and 50% equity again on an adjusted basis was reasonable for us and was a policy that we would follow longer term.
So if you -- and I've repeated those comments several times since May of 2010.
If you follow-up on that right and you get proceeds -- and this is hypothetical -- you get proceeds from an asset disposition and there are not new opportunities that you already don't have in your forecast then you would use those proceeds to rebalance your capital structure back to an adjusted 50-50 basis which we have said over time works for us.
Perfect that is very clear.
I just want to make sure I got that right.
Could you then go on to the $0.10 benefit versus a year ago in the corporate and other talk a little bit about these tax benefits and what exactly is going on there?  And how much of that is sort of a go-forward basis? Well the only -- you're talking about the current quarter? Yes the $0.10.
So you got $0.09 for corporate and other benefit this year versus the loss of $0.01 a year ago.
Yes there's not really much more to add to that.
There were several states that changed their tax laws during the second quarter.
I mean that's when these legislators are in session all across the country.
We're in 26 or 27 states at this point on the Energy Resources side of the business.
And as those states change the way they calculate state income taxes or they change their tax rates for GAAP purposes you got to go to your deferred income taxes that you have on the books and you have to reprice of them.
And that's exactly what we did.
I mean there's nothing really else to say about that.
Okay great.
And then last on the CITCs the $0.07 that essentially will be the difference in the second half relative to a year ago.
Would you take a stab at trying to split that third quarter to fourth quarter?  The obvious preponderance historically has been signing up these contracts sort of towards year end.
So my gut tells me a lot of that will be in the fourth quarter but was wondering if you couldn't give us at least some idea how that $0.07 might split.
The $0.07 actually is the annual difference between 2011 and 2010 right.
So that's -- I would say that most -- you know what I was going to say fourth quarter.
It's probably ratably with one exception and the exception will just get into a difficult explanation.
But it's ratably and the reason it's ratably is because under the accounting rules the full benefit that you're expecting for the year you actually have to allocate on a quarterly basis right?  You allocate to each quarter based on what you expect to have of the end of the year and the allocation is actually based on the amount of pretax earnings that you have in each quarter.
So if you would have had the same expectation at the beginning of the year for 2010 and 2011 right you would have said 600 megawatts of CITC for '10 and '11 then the only difference on the quarterly allocation basis would be the difference in pretax income for each quarter.
So last year I think we started the year with 600 megawatts of expected CITC.
This year we started I think with 275 megawatts of CITC.
The difference of that is $0.07.
Assuming no change in pretax earnings allocation between the quarter let's just take that as an assumption the $0.07 would be ratably allocated throughout the year.
The one exception is we talked about White Oak 150 megawatts in the second quarter because that was a project financed under differential membership interest or tax equity.
The full benefit of that one actually happened in the second quarter.
We'll go next to Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
When you're thinking about next year's Florida rate case and kind of what the requests will likely be how much does -- what's happening with the depreciation reserve impact what your rate case request could potentially be? Meaning how much do you think you could potentially have to carry over into 2013 or beyond or as a potential kind of negotiating piece as part of the rate case process? I hate to speculate or be premature on 2013 and the rate case something that at least at this point we have not committed to.
I think the only piece that would be fair to say is that in the settlement agreement right after the rate case that agreement indicated the amount that would be left over presumably you would use the full amount through 2012.
That was the expectation of the agreement that the amount that will be left over which was roughly $120 million or so would be amortized in 2013.
So I think it's fair to say that.
But I think it's some speculation as to what we would say would happen to anything that would be unused based on the expectations that we the staff and the intervenors had going into the 2010 settlement agreement.
Okay.
But it's safe to assume that if you don't use of the full amount over the next 6 quarters through the end of 2012 -- I mean through the end of 2012 that something in the rate-making structure will have to be done in terms of dealing with the leftover depreciation reserve amount? I think it's fair to say that right.
Obviously you've gone through the end of 2012.
In your example you haven't used all of the amortization.
And so the expectation that you would use that roughly $120 million that was left at the end of 2012 in 2013 I think there would have to be a discussion as to whether that $120 million still remained the reasonable number and the appropriate number to use in 2013.
Got it.
Last coming to Texas a little bit.
Can you talk a little bit about what the progress you're seeing not just in your CREZ transmission project but CREZ overall in terms of meeting the original deadlines and what that could mean for some of your wind plants there? We're actually seeing -- we just had a discussion about this the other day.
We're doing well.
We're on plan to certainly have that line up in 2013.
And based on the information that we have it also appears that the other participants are doing well.
Again based on the information we have which is obviously a big positive not just for our wind fleet but also a big positive for the customers of -- the customers in Texas all customers in Texas.
So I don't -- I can't quantify it but I would say that if it stays if our line and the other lines stay on plan that I would see very little downside to our wind assets in Texas and clearly there would be more upside.
We'll go next to -- I apologize Verduga Murphy [ph] with CDP capital.
A couple of things.
One in terms of the gas-fired generation assets that you're potentially looking to monetize unless I missed it I apologize can you remind us what the book value is of the group of assets that you are marketing or have potentially have available? We have not.
You didn't miss it because we haven't said what that is at this point.
Because I would certainly help in terms of some of the reallocation questions and some of the other questions about how you get to your balance capital structure.
So you can't help us even in terms of a broad range so that we have something to work with? Yes.
That actually if I understand your question correctly we haven't said for a number of reasons.
One of the reasons is exactly what you're trying to get to.
And I really at this point don't want people to kind of speculate as to what the proceeds are and then kind of back into some numbers.
But the more important question isn't necessarily what the basis is.
The more important question is what is the debt on those assets right?  Because if you sell the assets you're going to have to potentially use some of the proceeds to pay the debt on those assets.
But we haven't said that either.
We haven't talked about the carrying costs we haven't talked about the debt.
We'll have more to -- everybody just needs to be a little patient.
We'll have more to say hopefully before the third quarter earnings call.
Okay that's fair.
And also can you talk about your investment in PetroQuest and how much of that is to date kind of what the strategy is and what future capital commitments you have going forward there and just what -- kind of how that fits into things? I don't have the numbers with me.
So let me just kind of reference what we have said before and PetroQuest obviously is part of this.
We indicated in May of 2010 that we would expect about $400 million to $600 million of capital into this business.
And this business really is the PetroQuest business which is the shale drilling business.
We're not at the $600 million we're not at the $400 million at this point so we continue to deploy capital towards our PetroQuest joint venture and other joint ventures.
If I don't know what the number is though that means its not something that I follow every day.
So it's important I don't want to say it's not an important part of the business.
But we're spending this year an estimated $6 billion to $6.5 billion of CapEx at combined NextEra Energy.
We might spend $100 million to $150 million of that in gas infrastructure.
So good business important part of the business just not very significant.
And when we think about that capital how should we think about that being capitalized? Should we just assume the 50-50 kind of targeted goal?  Or is it going to be different? You should assume -- if you're talking about the gas infrastructure part of the business is that what you're talking about? Yes the segment.
Okay.
Well you should assume that it's capitalized no different than any other part of our business so adjusted 50-50.
You should not assume that we make investment decisions on a 50-50 basis.
At the end of it we're making investment decisions based on the risks associated with that business.
The risks obviously of that business are different than the risks that we would see for Energy Resources or other parts of the business right? And so therefore the weighted average cost of capital that we believe we would have to get from that business is different.
But if you're talking about how it's capitalized from a corporate level it's -- our entire balance sheet is capitalized on the Energy Resources level to a 50-50 business on an adjusted basis.
And by adjusted basis I mean they're -- we talked about this before.
They are -- equity is not the only thing that gives you equity credit.
There are equity-linked instruments that give you equity credit.
We've used those before.
We get credit from the agencies because they have a high amount of credit -- of equity content.
So don't assume it's just debt and pure equity.
Okay and one last question on this topic.
The $400 million to $600 million that you talked about in the business.
Over what time period was that contemplated? And under what circumstances or situations would you contemplate potentially increasing that in some fashion? It was through 2014.
And if it is increased and we have no plans to increase it at this point it wouldn't be a very significant increase.
And for our final question we go to Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to get your medium-term outlook for the growth of renewable generation in the U.S.
and the opportunities it creates for you.
On the one hand if we look at the mandatory renewable generation targets set by the 30-odd states that have in the next 5-year period of fairly rapid growth.
But my concern is that that growth is concentrated in a handful of states that have the most ambitious targets and that meeting those targets may translate into rate increases that could translate into a bit of political backlash against the cost of renewable generation particularly as the federal tax incentives roll off in 2014.
So I was wondering what your medium-term outlook for the growth of U.S.
renewable generation is the opportunities it creates for you and what are the risks to that outlook? Wynne this is Jim Robo.
I think first of all you have to realize we think about the renewable business in North America is holistically right?  And we talked about that today.
And solar for example has incentive visibility through the end of 2016.
We have a whole Canadian pipeline that right now runs through the end of 2014.
We have a lot of visibility into both of those and we have a wind pipeline that runs through the end of 2012.
And right now there's some uncertainty as to what happens post-2012 from a federal incentive side -- standpoint on wind.
We feel like in the long term that wind is an important piece of the energy mix in the U.S.
and that there's going to be continued support for that.
But there's some uncertainty around the short-term impacts particularly in 2013 if we're watching closely.
But in the long term we're very optimistic about the wind business in the U.S.
as well for one of the reasons you talked about which is the state renewable portfolio standards.
So I think we can talk to our own backlog and our own portfolio and say we just talked about it today over several billion dollars of wind and solar that we have signed today that we're going to be building between now and the end of 2014.
And I can tell you we're not sending the teams home tonight and saying you're done for the balance for the next 3 years.
They're going to be working on new things as well to get done between now and the end of 2014.
So we feel very good about our own prospects.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to this NextEra 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Rebecca Kujawa Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Lew Hay NextEra Energy's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will provide an overview of NextEra Energy's performance and recent accomplishments.
Lew will be followed by Armando Pimentel our former Chief Financial Officer and current President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources LLC which we will refer to with its subsidiaries as Energy Resources in this presentation.
Armando will discuss the specifics of our financial results.
Also joining us this morning are Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Jim Robo President and Chief Operating Officer of NextEra Energy; and Armando Olivera President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light.
Following our prepared remarks our senior management team will be available to take your questions.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking.
These statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements.
If any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release and the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website www.nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Lew Hay.
Lew? Okay.
Thank you Rebecca and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that FPL had strong performance in the third quarter and while Energy Resources had a challenging quarter financially the team executed well on creating tangible growth opportunities for the future.
During the quarter we continued to build a large backlog of future investment opportunities at both of our main businesses.
Despite the decline in year-over-year financial results at Energy Resources we continue to expect adjusted earnings per share for 2011 to be at the low end of our range of $4.35 to $4.65.
At Florida Power &amp; Light Company earnings per share were up approximately 12% over the prior year comparable quarter due to increased investment in the business.
The Florida economy continues to show mixed signs with improvement in some indicators and little change in others.
Florida's unemployment rate was 10.6% as of September 2011.
This is 1.1 percentage points below last year's comparable month and represents one of the largest year-over-year decreases in state unemployment rates in the United States.
Florida's housing affordability has improved significantly particularly in FPL's core markets.
The Case-Shiller index which tracks the prices of residential real estate has fallen 50% from its 2006 peak for the Miami-Dade Broward and Palm Beach County markets in South Florida.
This makes Florida much more attractive to baby boomers as they enter retirement and the state's existing home sales trend continue to show positive momentum.
Over the quarter FPL averaged 24 000 more customers than we had in the year-ago comparable quarter and our inactive meters have declined 4.4% since the year-ago period.
Florida also continues to have a low tax burden and we are encouraged by the efforts of Governor Scott's administration to make the state even more attractive to businesses.
At FPL we continue to make good progress on our large investment program.
Our nuclear uprate work at St.
Lucie and Turkey Point continues.
Last week the Florida Public Service Commission approved FPL's nuclear cost recovery of $196 million through the capacity clause.
This amount relates primarily to the cost of nuclear uprates which by themselves are estimated to provide fuel savings to customers of $4.6 billion to $4.8 million over the lives of the plants.
The commission determined that FPL's 2009 and 2010 uprate costs were prudently incurred and FPL's actual and projected 2011 and 2012 costs are reasonable.
Cost recovery for 2009 and 2010 was one of several issues that had been left unresolved by the prior commission.
All of the prior unresolved issues have now been resolved.
This week the commission approved the remainder of the clauses for 2012 including fuel conservation and environmental clauses.
This approval was reached through stipulation with all parties.
During the third quarter the commission accepted FPL's request for a bid rule exemption regarding the proposed modernization of the Port Everglades facility.
And we plan to file a petition for a determination of need for the facility later this month.
If the new plant were to come online in 2016 as currently proposed the Port Everglade's modernization would cost roughly $1.2 billion and is expected to provide net customer benefits of more than $400 million over the life of the plant.
In aggregate FPL's completed and planned investments from 2001 to 2016 are expected to save customers an estimated $1.3 billion in projected fuel costs in 2016 relative to a 2001 baseline.
These investments are delivering significant benefits to our customers through operating efficiencies cleaner generation and reduced fuel costs.
As a result FPL customers are receiving cleaner more reliable energy for a typical bill that is the lowest in Florida and more than 20% below the national average.
Looking forward we expect that these investments will allow us to keep our typical residential customer bill among the lowest in the state.
On the Energy Resources side of the business we made great strides in growing our backlog of contracted renewable energy projects by entering into contracts for approximately 1 100 megawatts of new renewable energy capacity since our second quarter earnings call.
In fact since the beginning of the year we have signed approximately 2 100 megawatts of contracts per new wind and solar projects.
Now the numbers I just gave you are slightly higher than what are shown on the slides as last night we entered into a new 100-megawatt wind contract which is not included in the numbers you're seeing on the slides.
This year is the most successful contracting the year in Energy Resources' history.
On the solar development front we were pleased to announce that we have purchased a 50% ownership interest in the 550-megawatt Desert Sunlight photovoltaic solar project.
We believe the addition of Desert Sunlight which is expected to be one of the world's largest solar PV facilities considerably strengthens our backlog of solar projects.
We expect this project will begin operation in 2013 and be at full capacity in 2015.
Long-term power purchase agreements or PPAs for the project have already been approved by the California Public Utilities Commission.
I also want to take this opportunity to announce that we are pursuing the necessary approvals and permits to develop the McCoy solar facility a 250-megawatt solar PV project located in the Mojave Desert near the Genesis and Desert Sunlight projects.
This project which is expected to reach full commercial operations by 2016 has a long-term contract with Southern California Edison currently pending approval by the California Public Utilities Commission.
This project further enhances the visibility of our longer-term backlog and we look forward to providing you additional updates on McCoy in the future.
McCoy and Desert Sunlight join our solar portfolio alongside our Genesis and Spain solar thermal projects and several other smaller PV projects increasing our backlog of already contracted solar opportunities to 940 megawatts expected to come into service sometime between 2011 and 2016.
We expect these projects will begin contributing meaningfully to cash flow and earnings in 2013.
On the wind development front we had another active quarter and now have long-term PPAs for over 1 400 megawatts of new wind projects to be commissioned in 2011 and 2012 including the contract we signed last night.
By 2012 Energy Resources expects to have approximately 10 000 megawatts of operating wind projects that provide on their own attractive upside opportunities.
Looking beyond 2012 our current backlog of already contracted wind projects for 2013 and 2014 is 593 megawatts which includes 469 megawatts of Canadian projects that we talked about last quarter as well as an additional Canadian project of 124 megawatts that we had previously included in our 2012 backlog but now expect to come online in 2013.
As you know last month we announced new management roles for Armando Pimentel and Moray Dewhurst.
Since Armando was Chief Financial Officer during the third quarter he will be presenting the company's quarterly financial results today.
With that I will turn the call over to Armando before returning for some closing comments.
Armando? Thank you Lew and good morning everyone.
In the third quarter of 2011 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $407 million or $0.97 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2011 third quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $551 million and $1.31 per share respectively.
The difference between the GAAP and adjusted results is the exclusion of the mark in our non-qualifying hedge category the exclusion of net other than temporary impairments on certain investments or OTTI and exclusion of the impact of the pending sale of Energy Resources' ownership interest in a portfolio for natural gas-fired generation assets.
The pending sale of these assets resulted in a onetime after-tax charge of approximately $0.23 per share of which approximately $0.22 was at Energy Resources and $0.01 was at corporate and other due to the consolidated tax impact.
These results are still subject to various closing adjustments.
Late last month we announced the sale of our ownership interest in RIEC a 550-megawatt gas-fired generation asset.
The transaction is expected to result in a onetime after-tax charge of less than $0.01 per share subject to final closing adjustments which the company expects to exclude from fourth quarter and fiscal 2011 adjusted earnings.
For the third quarter of 2011 Florida Power &amp; Light reported net income of $347 million or $0.83 per share.
FPL's contribution to earnings per share increased $0.09 relative to the prior year's comparable quarter driven almost entirely by the substantial investments we have made in the business including the nuclear uprates in our Martin solar facility.
As a reminder for the term of the 2010 base rate agreement FPL's earnings will largely be a function of its rate base and return on equity cap.
We continue to expect that FPL will realize a retail regulatory ROE at or near 11% during each of 2011 and 2012 subject to the normal caveats we provide including weather and operating conditions.
For the terms of the base rate agreement we expect that FPL will be able to amortize surplus depreciation to offset most of the variability in its normal operations including modest differences from normal weather.
Keep in mind that because the return on equity is calculated each month on a trailing 12-month basis you should expect to see continued variability in FPL's quarterly earnings.
But on an annual basis we expect that retail regulatory return to be approximately 11% in 2011 and 2012.
During the quarter we reversed $47 million of surplus depreciation to maintain a regulatory ROE of 11% in accordance with the settlement agreement.
Year-to-date we have recognized approximately $84 million of surplus depreciation amortization.
For the full year 2011 assuming normal weather and operating conditions we now expect to amortize between $160 million and $180 million down from our previous range of $180 million to $200 million provided on our second quarter earnings call.
This revision is largely a result of modestly favorable weather experienced in the third quarter.
At this point we expect to utilize between $510 million and $530 million of surplus depreciation in 2012 leaving us at the end of 2012 with between $180 million and $220 million remaining of the original $895 million established in the last rate case.
Although of course the exact amount will depend upon a variety of other factors affecting 2012 results including the actual 2012 weather.
Some of FPL's key customer metrics continue to show mixed results.
The table in the upper left shows the change in retail kilowatt-hour sales in the quarter versus last year's comparable period.
Overall on a comparable basis retail kilowatt-hour sales decreased by 2.4% with the average number of customers increasing 0.5%.
Although the usage due to weather is down slightly from last year cooling degree days were 6.9% higher than normal.
Non-weather related or underlying usage and all other declined by 1.1%.
We continue to analyze customer usage statistics to assess how much of the decline can be attributed to the economic environment and how much is the result of mandated efficiency standards.
At this point we believe each is contributing roughly equally to the decline.
There is however more work for us to do in this important area.
As depicted in the graph in the upper right corner during the third quarter of 2011 we had approximately 24 000 more customers than we did in the comparable period of 2010.
This is the seventh quarter in a row where we have had customer increases compared to the prior year comparable period.
The graph on the bottom left of the page shows inactive and low usage customers which we believe are indicative of the level of empty homes in our service territory.
While the percentage of low usage customers is flat to last year inactive accounts declined approximately 4.4% since the end of last year's third quarter.
We also want to highlight a recent update from the Office of Economic and Demographic Research regarding its population growth outlook for Florida.
The chart at the bottom right corner provides annual projected population growth in Florida through 2021.
The chart shows population growth rates increasing from 0.6% in 2012 to a peak of 1.5% in 2016 before tapering off slightly.
We believe this is a positive indication of long-term potential customer growth.
Turning to Florida's economic environment.
A number of the indicators we follow have improved since the depth of the recession but progress has been less consistent than we would prefer to see.
Both the retail sales index and the tourism taxable sales are up over the comparable period in 2010.
The trailing 12-month average of existing home sales continues to trend positively suggesting the market is moving through the inventory of available homes.
We continue to believe Florida offers a unique proposition in terms of housing affordability great weather low taxes and a pro-business economy.
All of which should continue to lead to ongoing customer growth for FPL in the future.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported third quarter 2011 GAAP earnings of $67 million or $0.16 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter which exclude the effect of non-qualifying hedges net OTTI and the previously announced loss in the 4 natural gas-fired generation assets held for sale were $204 million or $0.49 per share.
Energy Resources' third quarter adjusted EPS decreased $0.15 from last year's comparable quarter.
New wind and solar investment contributions decreased $0.06 relative to last year as a result of lower CITC elections and lower state tax credits.
Our estimate for full-year 2011 CITC elections is unchanged at roughly 275 megawatts compared with approximately 600 megawatts for 2010 projects.
We continue to expect the full-year impact of lower CITC elections in 2011 relative to 2010 to be approximately $0.07.
In aggregate the existing asset portfolio contribution was roughly flat relative to the prior year comparable quarter.
Wind resource in the quarter was 88% relative to normal compared to 99% relative to normal in the prior year comparable quarter.
The weaker wind resource was the primary driver of the negative $0.04 contribution from existing wind assets relative to the prior year comparable quarter.
Year-to-date the wind resource has been at 98% of normal.
The Texas gas-fired generation assets contributed $0.02 primarily as a result of extreme hot weather in the [indiscernible] region.
In the nuclear asset portfolio Seabrook's contribution was lower by $0.03 as a result of lower price hedges while Point Beach contributed $0.05 more as a result of decommissioning fund gains favorable generation and the lack of an outage in this quarter.
Our shale gas well-drilling program contributed an additional $0.05 compared to the prior year comparable quarter.
Customer supply in proprietary trading were down $0.13.
This includes lower earnings at Gexa a retail business of approximately $0.05 attributable to the extreme hot weather in Texas during the month of August and lower contributions from our proprietary trading business of roughly $0.07.
As you know there are 3 main parts to our Texas portfolio: two large-combined cycle plants approximately 1 700 megawatts of hedged wind assets and a position in the competitive retail market through our Gexa subsidiary.
Normally we expect warm weather to be good for the gas assets challenging for Gexa and uncertain for the wind assets.
If the wind blows hard it is good as we have excess capacity to sell.
If the wind is weak it is bad as we have to buy power to cover our hedges.
Through most of the quarter which experienced much warmer than usual weather our experience was consistent with prior years.
However in August when the Houston area experienced 22 days of record heat the negative impact on Gexa increased more rapidly than the favorable impact on the gas plants which were largely hedged and at the same time the wind resource was light during the super peak period.
As a result the negatives out-weighed the positives and at the portfolio level we were down $0.05.
After undertaking a thorough review it is clear that we could have reacted more quickly to certain signs we were seeing in the marketplace and reduced this impact.
We have made changes as a result and we believe we are now better positioned to avoid a recurrence of this issue.
Ironically however the same events that caused us pain in the current quarter helped in other ways as forward curves moved up sharply and we were able to hedge out additional volumes for future years at higher prices than we could have done before the heatwave.
From a development standpoint we had a terrific quarter in terms of adding to our backlog of already contracted solar and wind opportunities as Lew mentioned just a couple of minutes ago.
Starting with solar since the second quarter we have added 2 new projects: Desert Sunlight and McCoy.
With the addition of these 2 projects we now expect to be toward the high-end of the plans we laid out for investors at our May 2010 investor conference to invest between $3 billion and $4 billion in solar opportunities during the 2010 to 2014 timeframe.
Including all of the planned solar projects that are already under long-term contract Energy Resources plans to invest between $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion in 2011 and 2012 and between $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion in 2013 and 2014.
We now plan to add roughly 660 megawatts of solar to the portfolio between 2011 and 2014 and plan for an additional roughly 280 megawatts to be brought into service between 2015 and 2016.
Turning to our wind business.
Energy Resources' backlog of tangible investment opportunities includes plans to spend between $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion in 2011 and 2012 and $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion in 2013 and 2014.
Included in these expectations are the 1 310 megawatts of signed PPAs for projects we plan to put in service in either 2011 or 2012.
Our 2013 to 2014 backlog includes 593 megawatts Canadian wind projects.
These numbers do not include the CapEx associated with the 100-megawatt contract we signed last night which we expect to complete in 2012.
Since this is our first opportunity to talk to you regarding our 2 new large solar projects we want to provide a short overview of each project.
At the end of September we acquired 50% ownership in the 550-megawatt Desert Sunlight solar PV project.
Construction began in September and interconnection is expected by the end of 2013.
Full commercial operation is expected in 2015.
We plan to elect CITCs for Desert Sunlight as the megawatts go into service at an estimated pace of 150 megawatts in 2013 90 megawatts in 2014 and 35 megawatts in 2015.
The project has 2 long-term PPAs on the full output of the facility both of which have already been approved by the California Public Utilities Commission.
Total invested capital for the project is estimated at $2.2 billion 50% of which represents our subsidiaries' capital obligations and we will account for the project under the equity method of accounting.
Also adding to our solar development backlog our newest development project McCoy is expected to consist of 250 megawatts of solar PV technology.
We plan to develop the project so that it reaches full commercial operations in 2016.
Total capital costs are expected to be approximately $1 billion.
In September we signed a PPA with the Southern California Edison for the full output of the project contingent on the approval of the California Public Utilities Commission.
This contract will be submitted for the commission's approval by the end of the year and we expect approval in 2012.
The McCoy site has further expansion capabilities which could at least double our current plans.
Let's now spend some time to discussing our earnings expectations for the rest of 2011 as well as the next several years.
Turning first to the outlook for the balance of the year we continue to expect to come in at the low end of our original guidance range of $4.35 to $4.65.
This is disappointing.
We see with the benefit of hindsight that to reach the upper end of our range would have required contributions from our customer supply and proprietary trading operations that were not likely given how actual market conditions unfolded.
And we have not increased and we do not intend to increase our risk exposure from those operations in an effort to make up any shortfall relative to our expectations.
Having said that it is also true that we believe that we could have and should have been at the midpoint of our original range had we executed better.
Mistakes in execution are not acceptable to us and we are committed to improving.
We have already taken several actions in response to the events of this year.
As far as the earnings outlook beyond 2011 we want to give you a bit more detail regarding some factors that are expected to drive results in 2012 and 2013.
First as we have indicated before we expect that the major driver of our earnings growth over the next several years will be the investments that we continue to make at FPL.
We expect these investments to reward our customers with operating efficiencies cleaner generation and reduced fuel costs all while keeping our bills among the lowest in Florida.
At Energy Resources we expect the adjusted earnings drivers over the next couple of years to primarily fall into 2 different buckets.
First there are significant headwind associated with above-market hedges rolling off as well as the expiration of PTCs and some increased costs.
The second bucket contains the significant earnings contributions attributable to bringing our contract backlog of new solar and wind energy investments to completion.
Although both of Energy Resources' drivers will affect our adjusted earnings expectations in the next couple of years we expect the headwinds to be a bit stronger in 2012 while the contributions from new investments are expected to be much stronger in 2013 and beyond.
Looking at 2012 specifically as a result of our rate agreement FPL's earnings will be primarily based on the amount of rate base investment it makes.
We expect average total rate base in 2012 to be between $24.7 billion and $24.9 billion or approximately 14% higher than in 2011.
The growth in total rate base is driven primarily by generation projects that have received prior PSC approval.
The variability in FPL's earnings assuming normal conditions is expected to fall within a relatively tight range because we have the opportunity under the rate agreement to vary the amount of surplus depreciation amortization we use to achieve an approximate 11% retail regulatory ROE.
At Energy Resources significant headwinds primarily associated with above-market hedge roll-offs of roughly $60 million after-tax are expected to affect adjusted earnings from 2011 to 2012.
Our expectations for 2012 also include PTC roll-offs and lower state tax benefits which combined a roughly $75 million after-tax reduction to earnings compared to 2011.
In terms of offsetting positive drivers fewer days of nuclear outages are expected to contribute approximately $60 million after-tax and new asset additions are expected to contribute roughly $70 million after-tax including higher CITC elections which are expected to contribute approximately $20 million after-tax all relative to 2011.
We currently estimate that we will elect CITCs at approximately 450 megawatts of wind projects compared to our estimate of 275 megawatts in 2011.
There are obviously other puts and takes but these are the primary drivers we see in 2012.
After accounting for all of these effects we expect adjusted earnings per share for 2012 will be in the range of $4.35 to $4.65.
Turning to 2013 we expect FPL to have customer rates in place that will provide an appropriate cash return on the significant capital investments we continue to make.
These investments in 2013 are expected to include the completion of our Cape Canaveral combined cycle project completion of FPL's nuclear uprates at Turkey Point and St.
Lucie and the continuing construction of the Riviera Beach next-generation clean energy center.
Our customers should greatly benefit from the fuel efficiency and environmental improvements associated with these investments over their useful lives.
We expect total average rate base in 2013 to be between $26.4 billion and $26.8 billion or approximately 7% higher than in 2012.
In addition the approximately 320-mile rate-regulated transmission line that our Lone Star Transmission subsidiary is building is expected to be completed in 2013.
Our expectations are that when completed Lone Star will have approximately $800 million of utility rate base in Texas.
On this slide we are providing you with a walk of Energy Resources' expected adjusted earnings from 2011 to 2013.
The renewable energy investments we plan to commission in 2011 2012 and 2013 provide significant earnings contributions at Energy Resources through 2013.
As you can see from this chart we expect that the growth in our solar business will contribute between $90 million and $115 million in earnings relative to 2011 with virtually all of these increased earnings coming in 2013.
Driving this expected growth are the contributions from our Spain solar projects the first half of our Genesis solar project and a portion of our Desert Sunlight project.
We expect our new wind additions primarily the contributions from the 2011 and 2012 project additions to contribute between $60 million and $75 million during this period.
Recall that there will be no CITC earnings for new wind projects in 2013 and that we expect to have roughly $35 million of CITC earnings in 2011 so the $60 million to $75 million range you see here is net of that CITC amount.
We also expect price escalators built into a number of our long-term PPAs on our existing assets to contribute approximately $55 million during this period.
The tangible growth at Energy Resources that we see through 2013 resulting from these new long-term contract and investments will be partially offset by the expiration of production tax credits higher costs and unfavorable market pricing from our merchant assets.
While we do not have the exposure to merchant prices that many of our peers have as a result of our largely contracted portfolio we do have some exposure that shows up here from higher price hedges that will be rolling off during this time period.
In fact from 2011 to 2013 the reduction in Energy Resources' gross margin associated with above-market hedge roll-offs is expected to be approximately $85 million.
As I just pointed out a second ago roughly $60 million of this $85 million occurs from 2011 to 2012 so there's much less headwind associated with above-market hedges rolling off in 2013.
Overall we are currently 92% hedged in 2013 in terms of equivalent gross margin for our existing assets.
For your reference we have included in the appendix to this presentation the 2012 and 2013 hedging slides.
On the 2012 slide you will notice the reduction in our expectations for the proprietary trading business.
As part of an effort to align the cost structure of our gas trading operations with our reduced expectations for the business going forward in the first quarter 2012 we will be relocating the gas trading and scheduling operations from Houston back to our corporate headquarters in Florida.
In addition to reducing costs bringing these operations back to Florida will allow us to better integrate the teams and improve leverage across the overall business.
On the 2013 slide note that the new investment line includes both the contributions from the 2012 additions and the 2013 additions that we already have under contract.
Please also note that with the pending sale of the 5 natural gas plants we have tried to simplify and clarify the hedging charts to align better with the primary drivers of commodity price exposure in the different parts of the portfolio.
By executing on our tangible backlog of investment opportunities we expect to be able to grow earnings at Energy Resources even in the face of the headwinds I have just described.
The combination of FPL Lone Star Transmission and Energy Resources' investments offset by the headwinds I've described for the period are expected to result in significant adjusted earnings growth in 2013 over 2012.
Turning to 2014.
In addition to a full year of contributions from the 2013 Energy Resources investments I just discussed 2014 is also expected to add the second half of our Genesis solar project 90 megawatts of Desert Sunlight and contributions from our Canadian wind projects that we plan to put in service between 2013 and 2014.
Also the headwinds from the roll-off of above-market hedges are not present in 2014.
In fact we currently expect gross margin on our merchant assets to be up in 2014 compared to 2013.
Our 2014 merchant assets gross margin is roughly 70% hedged.
In addition to the contributions from Energy Resources rate base growth at FPL is expected to be approximately 3% from 2013 to 2014.
All of the investments we are making at FPL and Energy Resources are expected to meaningfully increase cash flow from operations beginning in 2013.
We expect that in 2013 cash flow from operations will cover capital expenditures.
And in 2014 we currently expect cash flow from operations to exceed capital expenditures and expected dividends assuming we do not add any additional projects to our current backlog.
In 2014 we expect consolidated cash flow from operations to be approximately $5.5 billion which would be an increase of over 35% from our consolidated expectations in 2011.
Based on our current cash flow expectations and absent further new investment opportunities we would therefore expect to be in a position to return some capital to shareholders in 2013 and 2014.
We continue to believe that maintaining our strong balance sheet and capital structure is an important differentiator for us and has added to our competitiveness at critical times over the past decade.
As such we plan to maintain this balance sheet strength and our credit metrics as we go forward.
Of course we will always look for additional opportunities to deploy capital into new investments that we would expect to produce additional value for our shareholders while maintaining our capital structure.
On a net basis from now through 2014 we expect that outstanding shares may decline slightly relative to 2011.
Today we have given you additional information to help you better understand the adjusted earnings drivers for our business over the next couple of years.
In addition to the specific guidance ranges for 2011 and 2012 we have provided additional color on the expected adjusted earnings drivers for 2013 and 2014.
In summary we continue to believe that our adjusted earnings per share will grow at an average of 5% to 7% per year through 2014 relative to a 2011 base of $4.35 to $4.65 which equates to a range of $5.05 to $5.65 in 2014 subject to all the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
Before turning the call back to Lew I wanted to take a quick moment to thank all of you the analysts and investors with whom I have worked over the last few years while I was the CFO of NextEra Energy.
I look forward to continuing to interact with you in my new role at Energy Resources.
With that let me now turn the call back over to Lew for some closing remarks.
Thanks Armando.
To close let me just say that while we're not satisfied with the financial results this year at Energy Resources we remain very positive about our outlook for the future.
During my tenure as CEO we have never before enjoyed a position in which so much of our future is represented by projects in our current backlog with high visibility and a clear path to completion.
Altogether our backlogs total almost $20 billion of capital investments across FPL Energy Resources and Lone Star.
Our growth for the next few years will be driven primarily by growth at Florida Power &amp; Light where our investments are fundamentally substituting capital for fuel and thereby making our delivery system more efficient.
We already have what we believe is the best customer value proposition in Florida combining the lowest bills in the state with top-quartile reliability award-winning customer service and the risk mitigation that comes for our clean emissions profile and we're working hard to improve this.
Our investments will mean real benefits for our customers in the form of lower bill -- lower fuel bills which means total bills will need to rise very little even in nominal terms and will likely continue to decline in real terms.
As a result we believe we should be able to earn a fair rate of return on the capital we are investing the business.
This will lead to strong growth and contributions to earnings per share.
While the outlook for FPL is for fairly consistent growth at Energy Resources we first need to fight through the effects of some headwinds most notably the impact of the decline in power and gas prices that has occurred over the last few years and which will somewhat mask the positive impact of the strong growth in new business through the end of next year.
Nevertheless Energy Resources has a bright and highly visible future path to growth through 2014 in the form of continued investment in new wind and solar projects.
And at the same time the mix of Energy Resources' businesses will continue to shift toward long-term contracted projects thus improving the overall risk profile.
Combining all of these we continue to believe we can grow earnings per share at 5% to 7% per year through 2014 relative to a 2011 base of $4.35 to $4.65 which equates to a range of $5.05 to $5.65.
We can -- we believe we can do so even after conservatively assuming no U.S.
wind additions in 2013 or 2014.
Yet we firmly believe we will find additional growth opportunities in the years ahead beyond those we have currently identified and we will be working very hard to do so.
Notwithstanding the short-term uncertainties related to renewable energy policy we believe that U.S.
Renewable Energy policies will continue to be supportive of future investments over the long haul.
We understand that we have much work to do to execute effectively against our extensive backlog of projects and that is our immediate focus.
But we will continue to seek ways to deploy new capital at attractive returns to build long-term value for our shareholders.
With that I'm going to turn the call over to the conference moderator for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Daniel Eggers Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Lew maybe you kind of hit on at the end but could you talk a little more about where you guys see renewable tax policy headed and then as it relates to the backlog how much of the solar and wind you guys have in place that's dependent upon an extension of U.S.
tax policy beyond the 2012 expiration as currently laid out in law? Okay Dan.
First of all I'll answer the second part of your question.
None of the forecast that we gave you is dependent on any future extensions or changes in tax policy.
So I think that was in pretty darn good shape.
As far as what we see happening right now we don't have -- we don't even have a murky crystal ball or a clear crystal ball on this.
You all read the papers and between the U.S.
deficit situation and some of the partisan politics it's hard to say where things are going to go in the short term.
Although I will note a bill has just been introduced in Congress to extend wind PTCs to 2016 which is the same period of time where the solar PTCs expire.
But historically renewables have received strong bi-partisan support and I think it will -- renewables are going to be an important part of our energy mix going forward.
And the other thing that I will add is as I think you all have seen now over the years the cost for renewables wind and solar especially continues to come down.
And so they are becoming more and more competitive.
So it's proof that these incentives have worked in terms of making renewables much more cost effective.
So it's hard to predict what's going to happen very short term.
I'm pleased that we're in a position that we can give guidance out through 2014 that doesn't rely on any changes to U.S.
energy policy.
But again as I said at the end of my prepared remarks I see over the long haul that we will have continued support for renewables and renewables are going to be a viable business.
Research Division</strong> When I look at the -- what you guys laid out today that you're going to implement buybacks in '13 and '14 kind of to fill in some of the excess cash presumably because the reinvestment pipeline is slowing a bit at that point in time should we think of that as a placeholder given the current environment or is it just the opportunities that as you guys look out is getting a little less compelling for some of the resources or reinvestment than what you've seen in past years? Well let me -- first of all we're providing you total clarity on what we've seen in terms of contracted projects projects that we have contracted as of November 2011.
It's the biggest backlog we've ever had in our history and it's also a backlog that goes for more years than we've really ever had in history.
So I wouldn't read anything more into it other than it's a very big very positive backlog.
And so the comments on our capital position and therefore share count are really a function of those known contracted projects that we've just told you about.
As I think Armando said and I said we're going to continue to look for other opportunities and if you look at our track record of finding other opportunities I think it's a pretty darn good bet that we will have other opportunities.
But for a financial forecast you have to make some kind of assumption at this point.
We never like to assume things that we don't know about and so I think that provides sort of a baseline kind of forecast.
For sure we're not going to go and invest in things that are dilutive or highly dilutive.
So if we find new investments they've got to have a better economic proposition than what you're seeing in the numbers we've just laid out.
So I can assure you my request to the team and the things that they're going to be incentivized on are to execute well on the projects that we've talked about but also to keep the nose to the grindstone if you will in coming up with attractive investment opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one last quick question.
Does the free cash flow positive position assume any sort of tax equity to monetize some of the PTC balance or is that natural cash from operations to get to the free cash position? It's very small tax equity in our financial forecast going forward but it's not to say there's not none.
We have used the end tax equity -- and this by the way is your last question because we've got to get to others.
We've used tax equity over the last 24 months really on not only new projects but existing projects to do a couple of things.
The cash is nice but the real primary piece has been to reduce the amount of production tax credits that would otherwise have been capitalized on our balance sheet.
And we've done a great job of that and I believe in one of our future earnings calls we're gonna kind of lay out exactly what we've done so investors can see how good we've done on that front.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Real quick.
And I apologize because when you ran through it in your prepared remarks it's a little bit hard to catch up with.
Could you run through all of the solar projects you're doing over the next 3 to 4 years 3 to 5 years and the timeline for megawatts coming into service please? Sure.
The first project would be our Spain solar project.
It's really 2 projects each slightly less than 50 megawatts.
The first part of that will come in in the first half of 2013.
And the second half will come in in the latter parts of 2013.
The second project that we mentioned is our Genesis solar project.
It's a 250-megawatt thermal project out in California 125 megawatts of that project will come in mid- to last-half of 2013 and the other 125 megawatts will come in around mid-2014.
The third project is Desert Sunlight.
That's an equity investment by us 50%.
That megawatt is currently -- those megawatts are currently scheduled to come in roughly 150 megawatts later in 2013 roughly 90 megawatts I'd say probably throughout 2014 and roughly 30 megawatts I'd say probably the first half of 2015.
And then we've got McCoy which we talked about today.
McCoy is a 250-megawatt also a PV Project like Desert Sunlight.
That's actually -- there is some CapEx from McCoy in our forecast period it's not significant and by our forecast period I mean through 2014.
But we don't expect any earnings associated with McCoy until 2015.
Most of that -- most of those earnings though will probably be in 2016.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the wind side the CapEx you're showing for wind post-2012 largely driven by the Canadian development I assume? It is all driven by our Canadian projects.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last item if I just take the very low end of your 2011 guidance so $4.35.
Take the mid-point of your 2012 guidance let's say $4.50-ish.
To get to the midpoint of your 2014 that's implying almost a 10% year-over-year growth in '13 and '14 from '12.
Is that -- can I ask a question what in terms of pricing assumptions granted that you don't have that much exposure to the forward curves? But that's a pretty big uptick and just trying to put my arms around it a little bit.
Well it's the things we laid out.
I'm not going to remember the slide.
The slide's probably in the upper teens but it's 2012 -- I'm sorry 2013 drivers and the 2013 drivers really come in 3 pieces.
First you've got Florida Power &amp; Light Company which is making significant investments to rate base in 2011 2012.
And we'll have new rates in 2013 since our rate agreement ends at the end of 2012.
That's the first big driver.
The second big driver's $800 million of rate base in our Texas utility our transmission utility Lone Star.
And the next big driver which we laid out really on 19 and we laid it out from '11 to '13 but it's really the Energy Resources solar projects which I talked about in my prepared comments.
So you've got first half of Genesis you've got Spain Solar you've got Desert Sunlight and you've got a whole bunch of wind that you're putting in primarily in '12 as opposed to '11.
And those wind projects that are going in in '12 will have a full year of operations in 2013.
When you put all that together that accounts for the big driver from '12 to '13.
The other piece that we shouldn't forget I also mentioned in my prepared remarks we've got a -- at Energy Resources a significant amount of headwinds from the roll-off of above-market hedges from 2011 to 2012.
So if you look at Slide 19 and you look at the merchant pricing down of $85 million from '11 to '13 $60 of that is actually from '11 to '12.
And so you have much less headwinds in 2013.
Now I'm going just make this comment because you also had Merchant in there.
On the Merchant side of the business our Merchant gross margin at this point is not fully locked up.
But even in 2014 as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we've got 70% of that margin in 2014 locked up.
And in 2013 if you look at the new slide that's in the appendix we've got 86% of that gross margin currently hedged.
So we feel fairly comfortable that there will be a big up in adjusted earnings per share assuming we can execute on our plans.
But if we execute on our plans there should be a pretty big up in adjusted EPS from 2012 to 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One last item a little bit of a modeling one.
O&amp;M trajectory at Energy Resources it actually -- if I just look at the financials on the back of your tables it actually was down a little bit year-over-year from third quarter last year to third quarter this year.
Just curious a the driver of that especially since you've added some new assets and b kind of the trajectory going forward.
Trajectory going forward I don't think is going to be -- well we've got a whole bunch of new projects that are going in right.
So all of those new projects going in are going to have their own O&amp;M.
And let me just -- I'm going to get to the rest of your question in a second.
But if you go to Slide 19 for those of you that are out there trying to model all this the green bars that you see there those ups that you see on those projects those green bars are already net of the O&amp;M for those new projects.
So the O&amp;M increase that you see on that slide which I think is part of your question Michael is really for existing projects not new projects.
As far as our expectations just on a general basis going forward I wouldn't expect it to be much more than inflation and maybe it's slightly even less than inflation on a go-forward basis.
And our next question comes from Paul Patterson Glenrock Associates.
The CITC benefit in 2011 2012 and 2013 I wasn't completely clear as to how we should be thinking about the level of CITC contribution to your growth rate.
Let me give you a little shortcut.
From 2010 to 2011 this is on adjusted earnings.
From '10 to '11 you're down about $28 million that's the $0.07 per share that I talked about in my prepared remarks.
From 2011 to 2012 you're going to be roughly up $18 million and that's all most -- actually all associated with wind.
And from 2012 to 2013 you will be up roughly $12 million.
That $12 million is a net number though because you will not have any CITC for wind in 2013 so you'll be down on the wind side probably around $62 million that's the gross number and you'll be up on solar roughly $74 million.
Okay great.
And what's the total number of CITC in that year? CITC in 2013 is probably somewhere around 275 megawatts or so all of solar.
And that's equals what kind of dollar amount? Roughly $70 million to $74 million after tax.
Okay great.
Excellent.
And then when we're looking at the slides on the hedging the Merchant wind in New England seem to be moving in different directions year-over-year.
The megawatt hours seem the same but in some cases it seems like there's a big increase in what we're seeing.
Yes Paul that's true.
You should -- you and the rest of folks should understand.
We try to hedge really on what I call corporate-wide basis at Energy Resources.
And that means a times we may move some hedges from some of our wind assets to some of our power assets and back and forth.
And we're not really doing that to confuse you although it might have confused folks.
I think the better way to look at it would be actually to look at the total amounts that you see especially when you're looking at Texas wind and Northeast.
What's happened to those total numbers.
And we'll take our next question from Jonathan Arnold Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could I just follow-up on Paul's question and thank you for that disclosure on the '13 CITC.
How should we think about that number in '14 I mean with respect to your guidance and growth rate? The '14 CITC number that's actually a number I don't have in front of me.
Hold on just -- do you have another question actually Paul? I'm sorry do you have another question Jonathan? I don't have that number in front of me.
Research Division</strong> Should we try that first? The other one was on the gas plants that you recently sold where you got the operating contracts back I think for some varying numbers of years.
Could you quantify what the benefit of those ongoing operating contracts is likely to be to earnings and where we'd be looking for that? And is it something we'd notice as in when they roll down? Well we'll go back to your first question Jonathan because we're not going to answer that question.
Research Division</strong> You're not going to answer either half of that question? Yes.
That's -- I think that's a competitive question and I don't think it's really appropriate for us to answer.
But on your first question where you were wondering how many megawatts of CITC we would have in 2014 I'd say roughly between 200 and 215 megawatts and it's all solar at that point.
Research Division</strong> So it will be a little -- there'll be a slight headwind versus '13 but not significant? Not significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on my other question I mean is this a number we'll notice when those contracts end rather than asking for a specific? Is it a driver we should even think about? Jonathan here's what I would say about it which is obviously it's accretive right now to earnings but it's small.
And we're not doing it for free but that O&amp;M service is a competitive business and so it's accretive it's small and not going to be a giant driver one way or another.
At this time I would like to close the conference out.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full-Year Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Rebecca Kujawa Director of Investor Relations for NextEra Energy Inc.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Alicia.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter and full-year 2011 earnings conference call.
Joining us this morning are Lew Hay NextEra Energy's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Robo President Chief Operating Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Olivera Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company; and Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources.
Moray will be providing an overview of our results following which our senior management team will be available to take your questions.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking.
These statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements.
If any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release and the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factors section of the accompanying presentation or in the latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found at the Investor Relations section of our website at www.nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
NextEra Energy's management uses adjusted earnings internally for financial planning for analysis of the performance for reporting of results to the Board of Directors and its input in determining whether certain performance targets are met for performance-based compensation under the company's employee incentive compensation plan.
NextEra Energy also uses earnings expressed in this fashion by communicating its earnings outlook to investors and analysts.
NextEra Energy management believes that adjusted earnings provide a more meaningful representation of NextEra Energy's fundamental earnings power.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray Dewhurst.
Moray? Thank you Rebecca and good morning everyone.
2011 was a mixed year for NextEra Energy.
We had a number of disappointments but we also had at least an equal number of successes.
On balance we must consider it a good year as our successes position us well to deliver on our longer-term value proposition in spite of a very challenging environment for Energy Resources.
We have the building blocks of our growth plan in place.
Our focus now is on execution.
Let me first say a few words about the disappointments.
Although our final adjusted results were well within the range of expectations we originally set out for you in October 2010 they were not what we had hoped for yet a couple of caveats are in order.
Despite the challenging environment for Energy Resources we set another all-time high for adjusted earnings per share and the growth in adjusted earnings per share of 2.1% was roughly in line with the median 10-year earnings per share growth rate for our industry while our profitability is reflected in adjusted ROE continues to be better than the long-term industry median.
But industry average performance is not what we expect of ourselves and we know you do not expect it of us either.
There were 4 principle reasons why we fell short of our expectations in 2011 all associated with Energy Resources.
First our proprietary trading activities fell well short of our hopes.
In retrospect we were overly optimistic about the market environment for these activities and hence about the results they could achieve.
We chose not to increase our risk profile in these areas but instead to accept what the market was giving us.
Looking forward we have adjusted our expectations downward for these parts of the business reflecting our expectation that market conditions will continue to be soft for some time.
Second we encountered some challenging issues at our Seabrook nuclear facility which led to unplanned and extended outages and less availability than we had anticipated.
Historically our Energy Resources nuclear assets have run very well and we expect to revert historical performance over time.
Although we had challenges within the nuclear fleet in 2011 our nonnuclear-generating facilities performed exceptionally well with one of the lowest forced outage rates on record.
Third we had hoped to get a few more megawatts of new renewable projects in the ground by the end of 2011.
2 projects will push into the first quarter of this year.
This has relatively minor financial impact on the projects' overall economics as the projects are still expected to qualify for the relevant tax incentives.
Fourth as we discussed extensively in the third quarter call we were negatively impacted by the extreme heat in Texas in August.
We were likely to see a negative impact on our retail customer supply business under such extreme adverse conditions even with the best execution.
Nevertheless we made a number of operational changes to improve our responsiveness and resilience should such extreme conditions occur again.
Although we were able partially to offset these 4 challenges in various ways the net impact was that overall at the enterprise level we were $0.10 or so short of where we expected to be.
2 external factors must also count as disappointments.
As you all know the forward curve for natural gas came down significantly.
While the effects of those on our results are muted for the next several years by the heavily-hedged position at Energy Resources over the long haul lower natural gas prices mean lower power prices for our key merchant assets.
And finally and quite separately we were disappointed that the historically bipartisan issue of Federal support for renewables has for the moment at least apparently become one of the casualties of political conflict in Washington prior to a presidential election year.
However this issue is far from closed and we remain optimistic that we will continue to see Federal support for renewables generally and wind specifically beyond 2012.
But while these developments were disappointing we also had many successes in 2011.
Chief among these was outstanding progress in the development of Energy Resources' renewable backlog.
We continue to build our backlog of contracted renewable assets by entering into contracts for nearly 2 200 megawatts of wind and solar energy already placed in service in 2011 or expected to be placed in service by the end of 2016.
Project development of course is more than just executing contracts.
Permitting and other approvals construction execution and other challenges continue to be present on many projects even after a power purchase agreement is in place.
But as a result of the excellent progress we have made in moving our development projects forward in 2011 we now have very high visibility into the evolution of our renewable portfolio for 2012 and beyond and we know where we are likely to be by the end of 2012.
We expect that by the end of this year we will have nearly 10 000 megawatts of wind capacity in our fleet.
With the development success we've had this year we believe that we're also very well-positioned to achieve our longer-term growth goals.
Let me emphasize that while we are optimistic that Federal support for renewables will not be eliminated as I mentioned earlier the financial expectations that we have previously shared with you and that we are reaffirming today are based solely on projects in our backlog and do not depend upon an extension of the PTC program.
Turning now to Florida.
FPL had a very strong year.
Unit 3 at our West County Energy Center came into service on time and under budget and as a result our fossil system efficiency reached a new record.
Construction on the Cape Canaveral modernization made excellent progress and that project is on schedule and on budget.
Local officials and residents from Riviera Beach enjoyed witnessing firsthand the demolition of the old plant there paving the way for another modernization.
And we began to pursue a third modernization project the Port Everglades that is expected to save customers hundreds of millions of dollars over and above the cost of the plant.
We expect a decision from the PSC regarding Port Everglades by the end of the second quarter.
We believe that all these projects have significant direct benefits for our customers in the form of fuel savings broader benefits for Floridians in form of job creation and lower emissions and long-term benefits in the form of lower electric bills.
Most important at FPL we continue to deliver what we firmly believe is the best customer value proposition in the state and one of the best anywhere in the country.
Our customers enjoy our lowest bills in the state bills that are 25% lower than the national average top quartile reliability and award-winning customer service.
For the eighth in a row FPL received the prestigious ServiceOne award.
This award is given to companies that exhibit exceptional customer service and FPL is the only utility to have won at 8 consecutive times.
Our emissions profile is among the best in the industry and customers should see little impact from the recently-finalized EPA rules covering mercury now known as the MACT rules.
Our strategy at FPL is straightforward.
It is to see -- continuing to find ways in which we can economically improve our customer value proposition.
In recent years that is translated in large measure into deploying capital to substitute more efficiently for other parts of our cost structure.
In particular we have been spending heavily to make our generation fleet more efficient which translates directly into fuel savings for our customers.
Since 2001 FPL system heat rate has improved by 19% resulting in more than $5.5 billion in savings for customers including more than $650 million in 2011 as a result of increased fuel efficiency.
However while the fuel decreases flow through regularly to our customers by the annual fuel clause proceedings we must periodically seek recovery for the costs associated with the investments that create the efficiencies our customers enjoy.
For the years 2011 through 2013 we will invest an average of about $3 billion per year in generation and infrastructure projects that benefit our customers including new clean efficient power generation.
And so in 2012 we will be filing a general base rate case seeking new base rates to go into effect in 2013 after the conclusion of our current rate settlement agreement.
We filed a test year letter with the PSC on January 17 indicating our intent to seek rate release starting in 2013.
While the details of the numbers may change somewhat as we prepare the required formal filing schedules we anticipate that the total rate relief requested starting January 1 2013 will be $525 million with an additional $170 million at the time the Cape Canaveral modernization comes into service reflecting the revenue requirements associated with that facility.
The key drivers of our request are simple.
First we need to address the impact of the accelerated amortization of so-called surplus depreciation ordered by the prior commission and implemented under the rate agreement.
As we pointed out at the time the accelerated amortization provided a short-term means of masking the need for rate relief at the expense of creating a larger incremental need in the future.
Roughly half of our rate request is a direct reflection of the need to address the disappearance of surplus depreciation.
Second we will seek rate recovery for Cape Canaveral.
This modernization will improve system efficiency and reduce our overall fuel consumption translating into benefits that our customers will see through fuel clause.
We estimate that over the 30-year operational life of this plant Cape Canaveral will produce net savings of approximately $600 million in fuel charges over and above the $1 billion cost of building the plant.
Third we expect to request that FPL's allowed retail regulatory ROE be reset to 11.25% which is roughly the average of the allowed ROEs granted to the other Florida IOUs.
We believe it is poor policy for the utility with the best customer value proposition in the state to have the lowest allowed ROE in the state and to rank in the bottom quartile of allowed ROEs in the nation which is the current situation.
We believe both common sense and sound policy suggest that providing the prospect of higher profitability to customers -- to companies that deliver higher value for their customers offers a strong incentive to improve performance.
Accordingly included in our rate request is a 25-basis-point ROE add-on [ph] which we believe reflects FPL's current superior value proposition but to be applied only if FPL maintains the lowest customer bill in the state.
In seeking rate release we are mindful of the fact that there is never a good time for a rate increase and our state and our customers are still doing with considerable economic uncertainty.
Still even with our requested base rate increase which amounts to about $0.23 per day on the typical residential bill we expect that our bills will remain the lowest in the state and about 10% lower than they were in 2006.
So we will continue to offer a service that is extremely affordable and exceptionally valuable.
Because of the improved efficiency of our system as well as because of unrelated changes in other factors including lower natural gas prices we currently expect the total bill impact to be no more than $0.10 per day on the typical bill and potentially even less.
I should also note that the typical 1 000 kilowatt-hour bill which is commonly used as a pricing reference point across the industry is higher than our typical customer pays.
Approximately 53% of our residential customers use less than 1 000 kilowatt hours a month on average.
The January 17 filing of the test year letter initiates a process that will likely occupy much of this year.
We expect to make our formal filing with testimony and required detailed data late in the first quarter and expect that we will have hearings in the third quarter with a final commission decision in the fourth quarter in time for new rates to go into effect January 1 2013.
As always we are open to the possibility of resolving our rate request through a fair settlement agreement.
However we look forward to laying out our case and demonstrating how our proposed rates will help us continue to deliver strong reliability and lower bills for our customers.
We are confident that a fair and objective review of our case will lead to a satisfactory outcome for customers and for shareholders.
Before turning to the details of our results I would be remiss if I did not say a word or 2 about Armando Olivera who will be retiring in May after 40 years of dedicated and successful service to our company.
Armando has led FPL with extraordinary success since June 2003 and leaves the business one of the strongest and best-performing utilities anywhere in the nation.
In addition to managing business however Armando has always been concerned with developing the next generation of leaders and we are confident that Eric Silagy who is named President of FPL in December and who has worked closely with Armando for the last 4 years will be ready for a seamless transition.
We thank Armando for his service we congratulate him on his great track record and we wish him well in the next phase of his life.
Let's now look at our results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2011.
I'll start with the results at FPL before moving on to Energy Resources and then the consolidated numbers.
For the full-year 2011 FPL reported net income of $1.1 billion or $2.55 per share up $0.26 per share year-over-year.
Under the terms of the settlement agreement FPL's earnings are largely a function of capital employed equity ratio and allowed ROE.
FPL's retail regulatory return on equity was largely unchanged in 2011 relative to 2010 and we increased our equity commitment to the business in line with the growth in capital employed.
As a result the primary driver of earnings growth is the 11.8% increase in average capital employed for the year a consequence of our having invested over $3 billion to maintain and improve our electric system's reliability and efficiency.
These investments collectively produce significant customer benefits in the form of lower fuel costs better reliability and clean air.
And they are key to our ability to keep our customers' electric bills the lowest in the state over the long haul.
For the full year we recognized $187 million of surplus depreciation and amortization.
For 2012 assuming normal weather and operating conditions we expect to amortize between $510 million and $530 million of surplus depreciation.
During the fourth quarter we had approximately 25 000 more customers than in the comparable period of 2010 representing an increase of 0.5%.
This growth rate has been fairly consistent now for the last 6 quarters.
Total retail sales declined 2.7% driven primarily by relatively less favorable weather which was partially offset by an increase in underlying usage and other.
As we've indicated before underlying customer usage can be somewhat volatile on a quarterly basis and we do not attach particular significance to this quarter's increase.
For the full year weather normalized sales were slightly positive and underlying usage was roughly flat compared to 2010.
The economy in Florida continues to improve though it remains weaker than we would all desire.
In December the unemployment rate in Florida dropped below 10% for the first time since April 2009.
Perhaps more important an annual increase of 113 000 jobs was reported for December.
The first-time annual job growth has exceeded 100 000 jobs since early 2007.
As part of our commitment to job growth in the state and with the support of the PSC FPL began offering in 2011 a new economic development rate to help attract more job creators to our state.
This new rate provides eligible commercial and industrial businesses with significant savings above and beyond an electric bill that is already the lowest in the state.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported fourth quarter 2011 GAAP earnings of $402 million or $0.96 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter were $128 million or $0.30 per share.
Adjusted earnings exclude the effect of the mark on non-qualifying hedges and net other than temporary impairments on certain investments or OTTI.
The large difference between GAAP and adjusted results reflects the magnitude of the reduction in forward gas and power prices during the quarter.
For the full-year 2011 Energy Resources reported GAAP earnings of $774 million or $1.85 per share.
Adjusted earnings were $679 million or $1.62 per share.
In addition to non-qualifying hedges and OTTI for the full year adjusted earnings exclude the net charges related to the sale of the 5 natural gas-fired generation assets.
Energy Resources' fourth quarter adjusted EPS decreased $0.04 from last year's comparable quarter.
The only noteworthy negative driver was $0.05 related to Seabrook's unplanned outage.
Please see the table in the appendix for additional details on the fourth quarter results.
For the full-year 2011 the $0.31 decline in adjusted EPS was driven by several factors.
Contributions from our new investments declined $0.06 primarily due to the lower CITC elections in 2011 relative to 2010.
We elected CITCs for roughly 275 megawatts of wind projects in 2011 compared to approximately 600 megawatts in 2010.
In our existing assets our wind fleet contributed $0.23 primarily as a result of the greater wind resource.
Seabrook's contribution declined by $0.12 as a result of lower hedge prices and an additional $0.11 due to extended and unplanned outages.
Our gas infrastructure business contributed $0.06 more than the prior year.
Our customer supply and proprietary trading businesses were down $0.22 year-over-year.
And lastly the other category declined $0.15 relative to 2010.
This decline was largely the result of the asset impairment charges recognized in the second quarter of 2011 as well as higher interest expense due to growth in the business.
While we typically review our earnings drivers relative to the prior year as I have just done we thought it might be helpful also to give you a quick overview of what drove the difference between the expectations we shared with you prior to the beginning of the year and the results the businesses actually generated.
We have included a summary in the appendix to this presentation that compares our realized equivalent EBITDA to the initial 2011 EBITDA ranges we provided in our third quarter 2010 earnings materials for the various components of Energy Resources business.
You will see that with few exceptions our expectations were fairly close.
We have also included our updated hedging disclosures for 2012 and 2013 in the appendix.
There were no significant changes for the last quarter.
We remain highly hedged in both years.
Looking at the company on a consolidated basis for the fourth quarter of 2011 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $667 million or $1.59 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2011 fourth quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $395 million and $0.93 respectively.
For the full-year 2011 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $1.9 billion or $4.59 per share.
NextEra Energy's adjusted 2011 earnings and EPS were $1.8 billion and $4.39 respectively.
Corporate and other's adjusted earnings increased primarily due to consolidated income tax adjustments related to state tax law changes and Federal tax benefits.
In 2011 the wind portfolio accounted for very roughly 40% of Energy Resources' adjusted earnings.
Because of its importance we recognized that many of you are interested in additional detail around this business.
It was an excellent year for the wind business overall.
Every year for the last decade or more we have set new records for total production as the fleet has grown and 2011 was no exception.
In total our wind business in 2011 generated nearly 25 million megawatt hours.
To put this in perspective this production is comparable to the retail load of a typical good-sized utility such as OGE Energy Alliant Energy or Great Plains Energy.
In addition the fleet set a new record for capacity factor as the wind resource recovered from well below average levels in 2009 and 2010.
Looking forward and assuming normal wind resource we expect the average capacity factor to continue to increase slowly as mix continues to shift towards more modern higher efficiency turbines.
It may also be of interest to note that 2011's capacity factor was significantly higher than the average capacity factor for the nation's natural gas-fired capacity taken as a whole.
Of the roughly 25 million megawatt hours of production approximately 70% was eligible for PTCs the remainder representing output primarily from projects on which we elected to take the CITC or from projects that have passed their 10-year window of eligibility for PTCs.
Of the PTCs generated approximately 29% were allocated to investors under the various differential membership structures we have entered into.
Looking forward we expect this fraction to increase as we completed transactions of this type on 483 megawatts of capacity in 2011.
We will continue to look for additional economically attractive opportunities to enter into these kinds of structures commonly known as tax equity.
2011 was also a successful year for the execution of our financing strategy.
Overall we invested roughly $6.5 billion of capital into our businesses net of amounts received under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
Our cash flow from operations was approximately $4 billion.
At FPL we maintained a consistent capital structure and issued $850 million of long-term debt while committing approximately $1 billion of new equity to the business.
Through Capital Holdings and its subsidiaries including Energy Resources we issued more than $700 million of project or limited recourse debt net of retirements and amortization and a net of $260 million of corporate debt.
We also received a little over $350 million from the sale of differential membership interest in certain wind projects.
As you know in 2011 we also sold 5 natural gas-fired assets.
The impact of these transactions on our GAAP cash flow statement adds a little complexity so a few words about the impact on our financing activities is warranted.
In total we sold the 5 assets for a gross value of $1.36 billion leaving us with proceeds of $840 million after the elimination of the associated project debt obligations a portion of which was assumed by the purchaser and a portion of which was retired.
Of this $840 million conceptually $465 million was used to retire debt although this is not evident in the cash flow statements as we simply integrated this effect into our existing financing plans.
The remaining $375 million was used to repurchase equity.
The net effect of the gas asset sales on our overall capital structure and credit position was essentially neutral.
Looking forward we expect to continue to employ a balanced financing plan to support our growth while maintaining our balance sheet and credit strength.
Because we are continuing to invest at a rate in excess of ongoing operating cash flows we will continue to need to access the capital markets periodically.
We expect to use the same broad mix of products including additional limited recourse project debt and the sale of differential membership interests that we have used in the past.
We also need to maintain a balance between incremental debt and equity and expect there will be a need to issue a modest amount of equity in order to support our growth plans for 2012 through 2014.
Our strong balance sheet and credit position are important to our strategy and we expect to maintain them.
As we decide upon specific transactions however we will do so with an eye on where we expect to be in 2014.
As we have previously stated if we were simply to complete the projects that we currently have in backlog and add nothing new we would expect to flip to become free cash flow positive after dividends in 2014.
On the other hand if we are successful in identifying additional new attractive growth opportunities in the interim we will want to have the balance sheet strength to support them.
Consequently we currently expect that the bulk of incremental equity support will be in the form of equity units a type of instrument that we have employed in the past which aligns well with the earnings profile of the projects it supports.
If we do not add to the current backlog of projects we expect that the 2014 share count will be slightly lower than it was in 2011.
Turning now to expectations for 2012 and beyond.
In 2012 we continue to expect adjusted earnings per share will be in the range of $4.35 to $4.65.
There have been no significant changes to the supporting logic we discussed with you on the third quarter call.
Looking beyond 2012 we continue to believe that our adjusted EPS will grow at an average rate of 5% to 7% per year through 2014 which translates to a range of $5.05 to $5.65 in adjusted earnings per share in 2014 subject to all the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
Again the logic has not changed since our third quarter call although the excellent progress we have made in the development of Energy Resources' backlog of renewal projects is encouraging.
In thinking about the growth of NextEra Energy it is important to recognize the changing nature of our portfolio.
The implementation of our strategies for both FPL and Energy Resources coupled with the changing nature of the external environment are leading us to a mix that is more heavily oriented towards regulated and long-term contracted assets than in the past.
We're in the midst of the largest capital investment program in our history at FPL which is causing this business to become a larger portion of our portfolio than it has in the recent past.
At the same time the externally-driven reduction in the opportunities available for the merchant elements of Energy Resources portfolio coupled with our strategy of adding to the portfolio through long-term contracted assets means that the proportion of Energy Resources portfolio exposed to commodity market volatility is decreasing.
The net result is that with our present plans we expect the proportion of our adjusted earnings coming from rate-regulated businesses that is Florida Power &amp; Light and Lone Star Transmission to increase from 58% in 2011 to about 65% in 2014.
Similarly we expect the proportion of our adjusted EBITDA coming from regulated businesses and long-term contracted assets to increase from 78% in 2011 to about 84% in 2014.
In both cases this would result in an overall mix comparable to the mix we had back in 2006 when Energy Resources was simply a much smaller business.
Before opening the phones to your questions let me simply summarize what all these means for our 2012 priorities.
Our focus is on execution across all our businesses.
At Florida Power &amp; Light we must continue to deliver the best value proposition in the state we must manage the execution of all our major capital projects successfully and we must achieve a satisfactory outcome to the base rate case.
At Energy Resources we must have outstanding day-to-day execution across all elements of our broad and diverse portfolio of activities and we must remain on track for the development of our record renewables backlog including reaching commercial operations on roughly 1 150 to 1 500 megawatts of U.S.
wind projects before the end of the year.
And at Lone Star transmission we must continue our construction program to achieve commercial operations by the end of the first quarter in 2013 and we must achieve a satisfactory outcome of the general rate case.
Of course these are not our only objectives but they are the most important immediate ones.
If we execute successfully we will be well-positioned to deliver on our 2014 expectations.
And with that I will turn the call over to the conference moderator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Daniel Eggers from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question with Progress getting the settlement so early in their process do you guys see an opportunity this time to settle? And maybe share your thoughts on any mechanisms you'd like to get back in place like the GBRA as you file a rate case or put it formal.
Progress' situation is obviously different from our -- I just don't think we're in a position to comment or speculate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just on the renewable backlog.
You guys in the past periods have given kind of a numerical amount of the projects you have in backlog that wasn't in the slides today.
Has that changed or is there an update that you could share on that front? Well we're still within -- if you're referring to how it maps to the 1 400 to 2 000 over the 2-year period we're still well within that range for the wind side.
I think the pieces are here.
If we haven't made them clear I'll be happy to follow-up and make sure they are clear.
On the last slide I think it's pretty clear what we're working on right now.
We'll go next to Steve Fleishman from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe go through some of the key growth projects and just development milestone updates and just what you'll be watching in terms of any issues there maybe Spain Genesis the big ones? Yes let me ask Armando.
I should specify Armando Pimentel since we are a company with 2 Armandos managing its principal businesses.
Armando Pimentel would you like to comment? Steve brief update.
Spain project is going well.
We are on track to bring those units 2 different units 2 50-megawatt units on track to bring 1 unit in -- earlier in 2013 the second one later in 2013.
I'm very happy with the progress that's being made there.
The Genesis project our 250-megawatt project out in California we're in the midst of construction.
We are on schedule to bring unit 1 in in the latter half of 2013.
And the second unit unit 2 each 125 megawatts in 2014.
Desert Sunlight which as you know is being constructed by First Solar.
It's a project that we bought 50% of and GE Capital bought the other 50%.
That's also on schedule that has not changed.
Some of that project will start hitting earnings regular earnings and convertible investment tax credit earnings in '13.
The bulk of that will be in '14 I believe and then you have some in '15.
And on the wind projects we've got quite a bit that we want to get done this year.
And I feel pretty comfortable at this point that virtually all of them are on schedule to get done because we've got potentially a real cliff a PTC cliff at the end of the year.
So obviously we're very focused on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one other question.
Moray your comments on -- thoughts on potentially some equity funding.
Could you just kind of maybe better clarify what you're trying to say? Are you trying to say that it's only needed to the degree that there's more projects added to the portfolio beyond what's in the plan or you still need to do a little bit based on the current portfolio? The latter is the case.
I mean if you sort of ask what it's going to be and when it's going to be the answer is it depends.
And let me try to explain why.
In the prepared remarks I tried to say that we have to focus a little bit on where we're going to be in 2014.
So if we project out to 2014 and assume for the moment that we only execute the projects that are in backlog then we would find ourselves in a situation where effectively the level of equity that we have in the business today would be adequate.
But there is an interim period to be got through.
And so for that interim period we will most likely need some modest level of incremental support.
And hence that's why we're thinking of doing it primarily in the form of equity units which obviously I don't have a dilutive impact in the interim.
And then depending upon where we are in 2014 we'll be able to decide how to adjust.
Does that make it clearer? Research Division</strong> That's great.
We'll go next to Jay Dobson from Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you'd give a little more clarity on this corporate and other which was as large as it was in the quarter and for the year.
Just what was going on there and sort of how we should think about that going forward into '12 and I guess through '14? Although maybe that may be a little less clear in your crystal ball.
Yes the sort of large size in the corporate and other is really -- is driven by tax issues.
They are kind of a couple of buckets.
In the second quarter we talked about the impact of some tax law changes.
And in the fourth quarter it gets a little complicated but it's essentially the elimination of a deferred tax liability which really came about as an outflow of more general settlement of broader issues with the IRS.
But in both cases what we're really talking about is an income effect from the elimination of the deferred tax liability.
So from an income statement perspective they're kind of one-time effects so they won't roll over into subsequent years.
From a cash flow perspective they are genuinely the improvement of a future cash flow position.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
So if we're looking out to -- I don't want to get too detailed into guidance around this but for '12 we ought to be going back to corporate and other in the I don't know $0.08 just to use what you reported last year? Yes I mean don't quote me -- quote me on the specific number but the large magnitude that we've seen this year in corporate and other we would not expect to recur.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then I missed the number.
How much surplus depreciation did you book in '11? $187 million.
Research Division</strong> $187 million.
And so even with the use of roughly $520 million I think you said for this year you'd have some of that leftover.
Is it your anticipation under your filing that you would -- you have the ability to use that in future years? Yes.
Right now the way we look at the numbers we would have roughly $190 million leftover at the end of the year.
And so we're thinking that that would be the amount that will go in to the filing.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a detailed question.
I know you left this out of the adjusted earnings but what was the loss you recorded for the RISEC sale the Rhode Island plant? Solely for the RISEC? Research Division</strong> Yes just solely for that one because the other one occurred in the third quarter.
Okay.
For RISEC it was immaterial.
The accounting the book loss was primarily associated with the other 4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you guys just said less than $0.01 it was in fact? Yes less than $0.01.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go next to Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Congratulations to Armando in terms of his retirement.
And I just want to touch basically on the long-term growth rate.
We have seen a decrease in gas prices.
Do you still feel that you can make that growth rate with today's low gas prices because of the hedging and other activity that you're doing? Or is it based on different gas price outlook? No we haven't changed in any way the way that we approach sharing with you our expectation.
So they always incorporate our view of the current forward.
So as you would imagine we can continue to get there because we have heavily hedged the portfolio.
So we continue to feel very good about where we are through the 2014 timeframe.
Okay.
That's what I thought.
And then just in terms of wind there was a Fitch downgrade on a specific project I think about a 500-megawatt project associated with higher O&amp;M than have been projected and lower revenues.
And I was just wondering is that something specific with that project? Is there anything that we should be thinking about? I know that you guys haven't really changed much in terms of your own wind outlook in the slides but I'm just wondering if you could just give us a little bit more of a flavor in terms of how the wind portfolio is working and just what that was all about.
Yes sure.
Let me first speak to the particular -- it's actually a collection of projects.
The downgrade occurred on project debt of a portfolio of projects one of the early portfolio limited recourse financings that we did back in I want to say the '05 timeframe somewhere around there maybe earlier.
So this is -- Fitch is taking action on the project debt there.
Actually behind Moody's and S&amp;P they have previously reevaluated it.
The key drivers there are actually -- the low wind resource that we had in 2009 and 2010 was stressing the coverage ratios of both the portfolio.
And in addition it is true that we've had higher O&amp;M experience.
They were some of the earlier turbines that had a higher incidence of gearbox failure than we now see.
So I don't attribute anything specific -- or anything excuse me anything more general from that particular issue.
And I think actually given that the wind resource came back very nicely in 2011 the coverage ratios on those -- on the project debt came back up just fine.
I don't see that there's a problem there.
But in addition I certainly don't see that as being anything that we need to think about extrapolating through the rest of the fleet.
So the rest of the fleet is running very well and project-specific issues there.
Okay.
And then just finally on the renewal of the tax credit for 2012 how should we think about that? I mean I guess you mentioned in your opening remarks about the political activity in Washington.
Any sense as to when you expect that to be renewed or how we should be monitoring that or I don't know it seems to be sort of -- Washington is hard to monitor I guess.
But what are your thoughts on that? Yes well I think the first thing to be said is it's a constantly changing situation.
But Lew has spent a fair amount of time in D.C.
over the past month so I think he would like to offer a few thoughts on that.
Yes.
I'm not sure I can add too much to it but if I was capable of predicting what was going on in D.C.
I would probably be doing something else because I think there's a way to make some money on that.
But historically the PTC has had bipartisan support.
We're in a highly politicized period and clearly the growing debt load the country has is an issue.
So it is hard to say how it stacks up.
We've been spending a lot of time in D.C.
communicating the virtues of the PTC and I think we're making some progress making a lot of progress.
And I think you all heard the President the other night recommit his support for clean energy.
So it's still hard to say how this is going to sort itself out.
We're I'd say cautiously optimistic that there's -- that some things can be done.
It's probably going to be a rocky road.
There's several different points in time over the year that something can happen hard to predict when anything really will happen.
But one thing I'm still very comfortable with is long-term there's going to be some form of support for renewable and clean energy.
So I can say stay tuned.
Yes.
And just to close that out let me -- I'll just add in practical terms what it means is that we are planning on the assumption that it expires at the end of 2012 but we are preparing ourselves for a variety of other possibilities.
We'll go next to Raymond Leung from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Question about financing needs.
Can you talk a little bit about under your current plan what do you expect in terms of debt financing out of the utility and potentially capital resources? And even if you could provide us some ranges or parameters to help us out.
At this stage I'm really not prepared to get into sort of specific numbers and timing.
All I can tell you is that Florida Power &amp; Light we feel that continue to be in the midst of this very heavy spending phase.
We will maintain the capital -- balanced capital structure.
So that means that there will be periodic first mortgage bond issuance as the primary vehicle that we use there.
On the Capital Holdings side again it gets a little more complicated there because we have a wider variety of instruments that we use.
As I tried to indicate in the prepared remarks we will likely be drawing on all of them but we're still sort of fine-tuning the plan for this year.
So as I said I'm not prepared to come out with specific numbers at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you maybe help provide us with like financial targets or metric targets and like a cash flow debt on capital side or to help us at least guide us? I can't right now but I will certainly -- I have committed to others that we will provide better guidance than we have in the past on that issue.
And the reason it gets a little complicated is because there's no one single metric that we use.
So we look at a variety of different coverage ratios effectively.
And we look at them in a variety of different ways and we try and optimize the overall plan.
So it's difficult for me to give you a specific target.
But having said that I can do a better job than I have in the past of narrowing down the range.
I'm committed to doing that.
Research Division</strong> And just last question.
In terms of -- I see you have a fairly large backlog but can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking in terms of what you're seeing in terms of acquisition opportunities in the renewable side? There's been a lot more transactions there some projects that I think have maybe come under some pressure.
And maybe how you're thinking about that relative to your own organic backlog.
Sure.
Certainly there have been some projects and some transactions frankly not as many as we would have expected or hoped.
We continue to be very optimistic that as some of the political uncertainties that Lew was talking about resolve themselves one way or the other some folks will be making decisions about assets that they now hold.
So we're very optimistic that there will be additional opportunities in that area but there's nothing specific obviously that I can address at the moment.
I would just reemphasize that acquisitions asset acquisitions are not baked into the numbers that we have shared with you.
So anything that we did in that way would have to be considered incremental to what we've shared with you.
We'll go next to Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> What was the impact of weather in the quarter and year? And in the past you gave us sensitivity to wind resource in cents per share and I remember that correlation kind of blew up.
Is there any tool we can use along those lines? On the latter part I believe the wind sensitivity is in the back on Slide 23.
So 1% change in the wind resource is about $0.02 or $0.03 per share.
On the final weather effect for Florida Power &amp; Light we're trying to get the numbers.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] next question and come back to that? No.
But just recognized that under the settlement agreement weather doesn't have a direct impact on earnings because it's typically offset by an adjustment to the surplus amortization.
So we're happy to get you the number.
We'll go next to Ashar Khan [ph] from Visium Asset Management.
Moray if I go to Slide 16 that you provided and if I'm right I did my FPL the utility divided by the parent I come to the exact 58%.
Can I use that same thing for 2014 using some kind of a midpoint as to what that 65% would be FPL and the transmission company or just FPL alone the way you have shown it on this slide? Yes.
Let me be clear what's in the slide.
In the last part of the slide so the percent from adjusted earnings from regulated businesses that's the sum of FPL and Lone Star Transmission.
So Lone Star is immaterial in 2011 but by 2014 we expect will be up and running.
So conceptually what you're talking about is the right way to think of it but you're going to have the 2 pieces in.
The chart -- the part of the -- the right-hand side of the chart the EBITDA part includes the whole enterprise and so includes all of Energy Resources' components and factors in how much of Energy Resources' mix is associated with long-term contracted projects versus everything else.
So in the right in the green part of the bar you've got FPL plus Lone Star Transmission plus the long-term contracted projects within Energy Resources.
Okay.
So if I do my math Moray it seems like as what you've been telling right that from 2011 to '14 right if I take the midpoint it's like a $0.97 increase.
It seems like $0.92 is coming from the regulated business.
That means like nearly like 95% of the growth is just coming from the regulated side to meet some kind of a midpoint of the range.
Well I can't frankly follow your specific arithmetic right here now but it is certainly true that the bulk of the growth that we're anticipating over this period is going to be associated with Florida Power &amp; Light.
We'll go next to Jay Dobson from Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Moray sorry to come back in the queue but just a quick question.
Gas infrastructure I don't remember what you sort of targeted there.
I know it's relatively small numbers.
But how does the current gas environment affect your outlook on investments there? I think relative to a higher gas environment other things equal it means it will be in the future fewer opportunities.
Having said that at this stage there are still plenty of deals that we're seeing that seem pretty attractive.
We have indicated that we're going to limit the capital commitment to that business.
But as to what the market opportunities will be we'll have to see.
Obviously I'm sure many of you have seen others indicating that they may be moving assets away from gas explorations.
So I think we're just going to have to see how that plays out.
But clearly over the long haul our lower gas environment makes it less attractive for that business.
Research Division</strong> And remind me what the -- not commitment but at least what you target to put to work there.
Is that sort of $30 million to $50 million a year? We had talked about a level of total capital commitment of up to maybe $600 million.
Research Division</strong> Over a period of several years? Yes sure over a period of several years I think out through 2012 toward 2014.
2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
Got you.
So more like $200 million a year.
At this time we have no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you everyone very much for joining us today.
We look forward to catching up with you again soon.
That does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy 2012 First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Julie Holmes [ph] Director of Investor Relations for NextEra Energy Incorporated.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Cecilia.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us this morning are Lew Hay NextEra Energy's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Robo President and Chief Operating Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Eric Silagy President of Florida Power &amp; Light Company; and Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources LLC.
Moray will provide an overview of our results following which our senior management team will be available to take your questions.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because other factors discussed in today's earnings news release and the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website www.nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Julie.
Good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered solid results during the first quarter of 2012 and is off to a good start in meeting the objectives that we have set out for ourselves and discussed with you on our last earnings call.
At FPL we maintained a regulatory ROE of appropriately 11% consistent with the 2010 settlement agreement and average regulatory capital employed grew $3.2 billion or roughly 15.6% over the same quarter last year reflecting our continuing commitment of new capital to the business which is designed to enhance what we believe is already the best customer value proposition in the state.
As a consequence net income grew $34 million or 16.6%.
At Energy Resources the adjusted earnings contribution compared to the prior year comparable quarter was close to flat as contributions from new business roughly offset declines from the existing asset portfolio.
Given the headwinds facing this business that we have previously discussed we are satisfied with this performance.
More broadly we made good progress on the various execution objectives we discussed on our last earnings call and we remain on track to meet our goals for 2012 and beyond.
In Florida the economy continued to improve although it is still weaker than we would all desire.
Virtually every significant indicator that we track is now appreciably improved from the trough of 2009 and this quarter showed a continuation of a general upward trend.
While we continue to believe that full recovery depends in part on recovery elsewhere in the U.S.
we are optimistic that Florida will in time revert to its longer-term pattern of greater strength than the national average.
Within a slowly improving economic environment FPL continued to deliver what we firmly believe is the best customer value proposition in the state.
Our typical bills remain the lowest of the 55 utilities in the state and about 25% below the national average.
Our service reliability ranks in the top quartile on a national basis.
We provide our customers with award-winning service and we have a very clean emissions profile which reduces risk from a customer perspective.
We continue to be one of the most efficient utilities in the nation with our non-fuel O&amp;M per kilowatt hour ranking us among the top 10% in operating efficiency in the nation.
Our major projects at FPL which are aimed at improving on this value proposition all progressed well during the quarter and we made our formal filing for rate release.
Outside of Florida the Energy Resources portfolio generally performed well with the exception of the continued down power at Seabrook associated with generated cooling limits which will continue through the next regularly scheduled outage in the fall of 2012.
While gas and power markets continued to weaken our high degree of hedging protected us against significant impacts in the first quarter and should continue to do so for many quarters to come.
We made excellent progress in developing our record backlog of renewable project and remain on track for all major commitments.
At Lone Star Transmission we continue to make good progress with construction and result in minor issues associated with the rate case in Texas.
Looking forward as a result of our progress in the first quarter we continue to believe we are well positioned to meet the earnings expectations we have previously discussed.
For 2012 we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $4.35 to $4.65 and for 2014 we see a range of $5.05 to $5.65 subject to all the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
Let's now look at our result from the first quarter of 2012.
I'll start with the results at FPL before moving onto Energy Resources and then the consolidated numbers.
For the first quarter of 2012 FPL reported net income of $239 million or $0.58 per share up $0.09 per share year-over-year.
The principal driver of FPL's earnings growth was continued investment in the business.
During the quarter we invested roughly $1.3 billion of the approximately $4.1 billion we expect to invest in the business in 2012 and regulatory capital employed that is capital in which we are able to earn a return grew 15.6% over the same quarter last year.
Given the projects currently approved by the Florida Public Service Commission and our normal pattern of investment in the business we expect to invest roughly $15 billion over the 5-year period 2010 through 2014 or approximately $3 billion per year.
This is the largest investment wave in the company's history and is of course only made possible by the prospect of earning a fair rate of return on that investment.
These investments collectively produce significant customer benefits in the form of lower fuel costs better reliability and cleaner air and they are key to our ability to keep our customer's electric bills the lowest in the state over the long haul.
All our major projects continued to make good progress during the quarter.
The extended power uprate projects at our St.
Lucie and Turkey Point nuclear facilities continue to move ahead.
Uprates of 3 of the units are anticipated to be completed in 2012 and the uprate at the remaining unit is expected to be completed in 2013.
In total the nuclear power uprate projects are expected to add an incremental 490 megawatts of generation capacity.
Construction at the Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach modernizations is well underway and remains on schedule and on budget.
In addition the Florida Public Service Commission approved our petition of need for the modernization of our Port Everglades facility and we expect that project to come into service in 2016 with a total capital investment of approximately $1.2 billion.
During the quarter we amortized $165 million of surplus depreciation enabling us to maintain a regulatory ROE of approximately 11%.
For the full year we expect to amortize approximately $500 million of surplus depreciation after which there will remain roughly $200 million to be amortized.
Utilization of $190 million of this in 2013 is built into our rate case filing.
One of the important issues in the rate case will be the need to increase rates to offset the loss of the temporary surplus depreciation amortization credit.
As I mentioned earlier the Florida economy continues to improve.
Unemployment in March dropped to 9% still higher than the national average but well down from the peak of 11.4% in early 2010 and lower than at any time since January 2009.
Perhaps more important Florida has now experienced positive year-over-year job creation for the last 20 months.
The tourism sector has improved markedly since its trough in January of 2010.
As of January 2012 the 12-month moving sum of total taxable sales from tourism stands higher than at any point over the last 5 years.
At the same time Florida consumer confidence has improved from its low in the summer of 2008 although it is still well below the levels we experienced in 2005 through 2007.
The Florida housing market continues to recover although progress is uneven around the state.
The large pipeline of homes in foreclosure remains a drag on the market and the judicial process used in Florida to process foreclosures is one of the lengthiest in the country.
Nevertheless the backlog of homes in foreclosure is gradually declining and the rate of mortgage delinquencies has fallen to its lowest level since 2008.
Florida has improved from having the second highest mortgage delinquency rate in the country to having the seventh highest rate.
As painful as the housing market adjustment has been and continues to be the significant declines in housing prices have resulted in Florida regaining much of the position it had lost in terms of relative housing affordability.
In markets where this adjustment has progressed rapidly such as Miami-Dade housing market activity has now recovered significantly and many buildings that we had thought would be unoccupied perhaps for years are now being occupied.
Prices in this market have seen a slight uptick recently.
On the negative side construction activity not surprisingly continues at a very low level and we do not expect this to change for many months.
Yet even here there are signs of improvement and we have seen a slight uptick in permit applications for new construction.
These generally encouraging developments are reflected in the internal indicators that we follow at FPL.
During the first quarter we had approximately 27 000 more customers than in the comparable quarter of 2011 representing an increase of 0.6%.
This growth rate has been fairly consistent with our last 7 quarters.
Total retail sales increased 3.8% driven largely by an extra day of sales due to leap year and an increase in underlying usage.
This is the second quarter in a row with a positive year-over-year increase in underlying usage.
Positive economic factors including increased employment in Florida and the steady drop in the number of empty homes seem to be contributing to the increase.
The number of inactive meters and low-usage customers which are indicative of the number of empty homes continue to improve and have now fallen to levels not seen since 2008.
However as we've often pointed out changes in usage can be volatile from quarter-to-quarter and we would not extrapolate from this quarter's strong growth.
Over the coming months we continue to expect modest and gradually improving growth but there are likely to be more bumps along the way.
On March 19 we submitted testimony and extensive supporting data for FPL's 2012 base rate case.
The overall numbers are substantially consistent with what we had indicated in the test year [ph] letter.
We are requesting a base revenue increase of $517 million effective January 2 2013 with an additional step increase of $174 million when the Canaveral modernization comes into service in June of 2013.
Included in these amounts is our request to reset the allowed ROE at 11.25% off the 25 basis-point performance premium designed to recognize FPL's excellent overall customer value but to be maintained only so long as FPL's typical bill remains the lowest in the state.
The Commission has established the definitive schedule for this proceeding which includes quality of service hearings in June intervener staff and FPL rebuttal testimony in July and technical hearings in late August.
The staff recommendation and commission rulings on revenue requirements and rates are expected in the fourth quarter.
In our March filing with the Commission we indicated that if granted in full our base rate request would result in an increase in the base portion of a typical residential customer's bill of $6.97 per month or roughly $0.23 per day.
However the impact on total bills would be substantially less.
Based on February fuel curves at the time of our filing we estimated that the typical bill would increase by only $2.48 per month or $0.08 per day and we noted that some commercial customers would likely see their total bills go down.
We are currently in the process of updating our bill impact analysis which we expect to result in a further decrease in the total bill impact.
We will continue to monitor the changing bill impact throughout the rate case process as fuel prices fluctuate.
The interrelationship between the base rate request and the customer's total bill is an important one but it is sometimes misunderstood.
While fluctuations in natural gas prices will certainly be reflected in corresponding fluctuations in our customer's total bills as a consequence of our focus on substituting capital for fuel our customers stand to benefit whatever the level of fuel prices and the value of the investments we are making would only increase still further if natural gas prices were to increase again.
The nearly 10 000 employees of FPL have worked hard and thoughtfully for many years following a consistent strategy that has led to FPL's current combination of low bills high reliability and excellent customer service.
While we are far from perfect and must continue to seek ways to improve we look forward to presenting our case to the Florida Public Service Commission.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported first quarter 2012 GAAP earnings of $221 million or $0.53 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter were $182 million or $0.44 per share.
Adjusted earnings exclude the effect of the mark on non-qualifying hedges and net other than temporary impairments on certain investments or OTTI.
Overall Energy Resources' contribution was close to flat with last year with adjusted EPS decreasing $0.02.
While the quarters saw the typical collection of puts and takes there are only a few items worth drawing your attention to.
New wind investments added to the portfolio since the first quarter of last year contributed $0.07 reflecting both higher convertible investment tax credit or CITC elections as well as ongoing operating earnings.
We continue to expect to elect CITCs on roughly 450 megawatts of new project that are expected to be placed into service in 2012.
The company's gas infrastructure business also added $0.07 of adjusted EPS $0.06 of which is from gains associated with closing out hedges on certain planned wells that we no longer intend to pursue.
These positive results were offset by lower adjusted EPS from the company's existing assets at $0.11.
Existing wind assets decreased $0.07 relative to last year's comparable quarter due to a combination of favorable state tax credits recorded last year as well as lower Federal production tax credits lower energy prices and higher operating expenses.
These items were partially offset by favorable wind energy production.
Net wind energy generation increased by 545 000-megawatt hours compared to last year's comparable quarter and the wind resource was about equal to the long-term average.
At our Seabrook nuclear facility lower availability and lower gains from decommissioning funds negatively impacted adjusted EPS by $0.04.
All other remaining items contributed a negative $0.05 and reflect lower contributions from the company's customer supply and proprietary trading business and higher cost associated with the growth of the business.
Given the challenging market environment for Energy Resources we were satisfied with the overall performance.
Nevertheless the bulk of the year is still ahead of us and much more work remains to be done.
We continue to make good progress in developing our record backlog of renewable projects.
During the quarter we brought into service 177 megawatts of wind capacity and completed the acquisition of 40 megawatts of solar capacity in Canada.
We currently expect to add approximately 1 300 megawatts of U.S.
wind capacity this year roughly 600 megawatts of contracted wind capacity in Canada in 2012 through 2015 and roughly 900 megawatts of contracted solar capacity between 2012 and 2016.
All our major projects are on track to meet their respective commitments.
Looking at the company on a consolidated basis for the first quarter of 2012 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $461 million or $1.11 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2012 first quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $422 million and $1.02 respectively.
The corporate and other segment was essentially flat with last year.
As I noted earlier we are on track with Lone Star Transmission and continue to expect to bring the line into full service in the spring of 2013.
As I indicated earlier with the progress we have made in the first quarter we continue to be comfortable with the earnings expectations we discussed on our last call.
For 2012 we currently expect adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.35 to $4.65 while for 2014 we currently see a range of $5.05 to $5.65.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
While we have not looked as deeply at the numbers beyond 2014 we also expect to maintain our growth momentum into 2015 with continued contributions from new assets coming into service at both FPL and Energy Resources.
From a commodity perspective we are highly hedged in 2015 as well.
As always our financial expectations take into account current market conditions and we are not depending on or anticipating any great strengthening in the natural gas market.
As a reminder our expectations assume only the projects that we already have in our backlog.
While we continue to be optimistic the federal policy support for renewable development will be maintained at least to some degree beyond the expiration of the production tax credit at the end of the year we are not counting on that.
We hope to be able to add additional projects to our backlog in due course but if we do not we would expect to be in a position to return some cash to investors in 2014.
Under any realistic scenario we currently expect our portfolio mix to continue to shift toward a higher percentage of cash flow and earnings coming from regulated and long-term contracted assets.
On our last earnings call we laid out for you a short list of critical success factors for 2012 and told you we were intensely focused on successful execution.
That remains true today.
At Florida Power &amp; Light our customer value proposition continues to be strong.
Our major capital projects are on track and we have taken the first necessary steps in seeking rate relief.
At Energy Resources our first quarter execution was satisfactory and we have made good progress with all our renewable projects.
However the environment for the non-contracted portions of the Energy Resources portfolio continues to be very difficult.
At Lone Star Transmission our construction program is on track and we are in the midst of our rate case in Texas.
If we continue to execute successfully as we have in the first quarter we believe we will be well positioned to deliver on our 2012 and 2014 expectations.
Before closing I'd like to turn the call over to Lew for a few comments.
As you are all aware last month we announced a plan for transition of the senior leadership of the firm.
Lew will be stepping down as CEO as of the middle of the year and assuming the role of Executive Chairman with an expected retirement at the end of 2013.
Jim Robo currently President and Chief Operating Officer will become CEO as of the middle of this year.
While the substance of the transition was widely anticipated a few of you have expressed some degree of surprise at the timing and Lew would like to explain the logic behind his decision.
Lew? Thanks Moray and good morning everyone.
I think it's more appropriately said that Moray would like for me to explain the logic behind my decision as opposed to me wanting to explain it but nonetheless hopefully this will be the last time I have to discuss this.
I've long thought that the transition of the CEO role from one individual to the next is one of the critical events in the evolution of a company.
I believe it should be a clear thoughtful and measured progression if that's at all possible.
And mostly prompted by me our Board has had numerous discussions over the years covering a range of various possibilities.
In the end however I think it really should come down to 3 things: first the right point in a company's development; second the readiness of a successor; and third a clear decision on the part of the incumbent.
For us I believe this is the right time.
Our company is in an excellent position.
Jim is clearly ready for the CEO role and for me it's really time for me to move on to a new phase of my life.
From the outset of my tenure as CEO I have consistently believed as I think Jim and Moray and many others can attest that a decade or so is generally about the right length of tenure for a CEO.
Over that period there's time to have a real impact on a large organization to move it in new directions and also to mold its culture and values.
I also believe that during that kind of a time frame a person can remain fresh and vigorous and not default to the same set of ideas for a want of new ones.
Now some leaders can remain fresh and creative for a much longer period but we've all seen leaders who hang on too long.
I'm determined not to be one of those.
I'm proud of what our team has accomplished over the last 11 years.
I had the good fortune to inherit from Jim Broadhead a strong capable organization but that organization is today much stronger more diverse and more capable.
I think you'll also agree that we've succeeded in our fundamental objective of creating value for our shareholders.
I have all the confidence in the world that our organization will continue to improve and create even more value for all of our stakeholders under Jim Robo's leadership.
Now for the 1.5 years after I step down as CEO I'm going to be committed to making sure this transition goes as smoothly as possible.
I expect to continue to support and mentor Jim as he grows into his new role.
I'm going to maintain a number of executive functions for the transition period in order to leverage Jim's growth and his time.
Now beyond that I have a number of personal goals that really can't be met on the schedule of a CEO.
And I'm looking forward to having the time and the flexibility to pursue those interests that frankly I have had to defer so far.
But be assured my heart will never stray far from the company and its people that I have had the privilege to lead over the past 11 years.
And now we'll turn the call over to the conference moderator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Daniel Eggers with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on the hedge unwind on the MP [ph] business and kind of responding to the natural gas market are you -- can you share a little more thoughts on what else you do and in the businesses as far as responding both the CapEx and investment strategies in a low gas state? Maybe I should first just explain what the hedge closeout is because it's a little different than the way some people approach this business.
Typically when we commit to a drilling program we will hedge the expected output for several years which reduces the overall risk profile of that project or set of projects.
That also creates an option that's somewhat akin to selling forward against the power plants but if gas prices decline significantly you always have the option of reversing the hedge position and not drilling the wells so not committing the capital and that's what we've done in a few instances.
So it depends on the specific economic -- perspective economics of a particular group of wells and obviously what happens in the marketplace.
So in terms of the overall implications of the lower gas environment for that business clearly it means that some opportunities become marginal or no longer worth pursuing.
At this stage though because of the very small scale on which we are participating in that business we're still seeing plenty of attractive opportunities.
And recall that a key motivation for us to undertake these activities is to have active participation and hence visibility into the evolution of the gas market in a variety of different regions around the country.
So we're still finding that we can meet that objective and do so with attractive expected profitability.
But we will obviously continue to look at individual groups of wells and if it makes sense to take the money from sweeping the hedges and saving the capital then we will do so.
Research Division</strong> So I just take this as a little bit of a portfolio reallocation more than anything else? Yes I think that's a good way of characterizing it.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on commercial demand at the utility it was -- you were particularly good in the quarter on a year-on-year basis.
Can you give a little more color on what you're seeing at the commercial customer class which has typically been the laggard out of this recession? It's like everything else we're saying seeing it's a little bit up and down stronger in -- among small commercial customers.
We've seen some drop-off among the large medium and larger commercial customers.
I can't say that there's any pattern that we've been able to observe there.
It's sort of -- again different regions around the state are progressing at different rates but not a lot of color that I can really add.
I mean it's all coming back slowly and a little bit in fits and starts.
But definitely the last few months have been more encouraging.
Research Division</strong> Okay so one last one just on the rate impact that you guys show on Slide 9.
The total bill impact is that effectively marking the entire fuel builds of the forward curve for gas right now? So gas prices that go up that savings -- that rate of increase will go up a little bit? Or is there still some timing difference between the market and where you guys are inputting fuel in that assumption? Well there's always a little bit of a timing difference.
But conceptually you're correct.
It's a little bit more complicated than saying that we're just marking it to the current forward curve because we've got the impact of the existing hedge program how that rolls through.
But directionally if gas prices come down as they have since we made the formal filing then we would expect to see a further reduction in the total bill impact.
And if subsequently they were to go back up we would expect to see a slight increase in the total bill impact.
So conceptually you're right.
And we'll go next to Steven Fleishman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Lew first congratulations and I just remember when you first started 10 years ago everyone was telling you to sell the wind business because it cost too much CapEx and I'm happy you decided not to.
Moving on to -- I'm sure you remember that.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> But moving on to a couple questions.
First on the gross margin and EBITDA slides Moray it seems like particularly in '12 the numbers have come up pretty good.
Could you maybe go through a little bit what's driving that? Is it mainly better Texas power pricing on the little bit that's open? Any other main drivers? Okay.
Thanks for asking the question Steve.
Actually the principal driver of the change in the numbers on those 2 charts is what I would call a technical one in the way that we have presented the economics of the tax equity project.
To be blunt the way we had been doing it really was understating our equivalent gross margin and without sort of sitting down with a piece of paper and explaining the -- almost the debits and credits a little difficult to go further than that.
But effectively we have now recast these gross margin charts to be a little closer to the concept that we were trying to get at originally of equivalent gross margin for a wind project that had tax equity against it.
So that's the principle reason that the numbers have changed.
Substantive changes in the period both for 2012 and 2013 were pretty minor some small additional hedges.
But because we're so hedged for those 2 years these numbers don't move around a great deal.
The hedging activity that we undertook and executed in this period was mostly related to '14 '15 and '16.
So we took advantage of some of the strengthening in the Texas spot spreads in particular to reduce our exposure in some of the outyears.
But not a lot changed in 2012 and '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think Moray you had talked about potentially doing a convertible or other financings this year.
Is there any update on financing plans? We continue to expect to access the equity markets in one form or another most likely in the form of an equity unit or units.
Timing remains to be seen.
It will get worked into our overall financing plan and obviously will depend on specific market conditions.
But it's definitely baked into our expectations for the year and beyond and it just remains to be seen when the right time to execute is.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just lastly maybe you can give an update with some of the kind of economic issues in Spain.
Any update of any issues we should be worried about there for your project? Well we continue to obviously to monitor closely what the new government is thinking about doing on the perspective of energy policy.
It's a little difficult for us to tell exactly how that's going to come out.
They have clearly been very sensitive to the fact that many parties including international investors have committed significant amounts of capital in the expectation of a certain regulatory and contractual and pricing environment and they clearly don't want to go back on that.
At the same time they've got a number of kind of conflicting pressures.
They have still that commitment to meet their renewable portfolio obligations under Kyoto and its successors.
But they also have to worry about retail rate pressure.
So not a lot to say substantively about how that will all come out.
We're optimistic that the economics of the project will be preserved but obviously there can be no guarantee on that.
We'll go next to Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One or 2 questions on Energy Resources just want to make sure I understand 1 or 2 items.
When you guys think longer-term about the several gigawatts of combined-cycle capacity you still have at Energy Resources do you view this as core of the business still? And are these -- meaning do you need especially of the Texas assets to help in terms of kind of the hedging or providing a backstop for your retail presence? That's kind of question one about the gas plans.
Question 2 is I'm a little surprised there's not a bigger uptick in expected output levels from these plants both the Texas one and the ones in PGM [ph] just given kind of where gas and coal prices are and the fact we've seen a lot of other folks with combined-cycle talk about witnessing a significant uptick in output going forward.
Okay.
On the first question it's sort of whether the -- how core the gas plants are.
I guess the right way to think about that is we continue to like very much our portfolios in New England and Texas.
They respectively within those geographies they kind of work well together along with our other books of business in those regions.
So I think those we still see as core.
But I would say that nothing in our portfolio is absolute and we will clearly respond to changes in the marketplace and if it makes sense for us to consider divesting assets we will consider divesting assets.
I think we've demonstrated that over the years.
So we still like the pieces that we have but that's in part a function of where markets are today and where we expect them to be in the future.
So it's not an absolute.
Specifically in terms of Texas I think it's important to recognize that the gas plants are much more significant just in terms of the impact to the portfolio than is the competitive retail business.
On the second question the -- I'm not quite sure where you're picking up what our expected output would be.
If it's from the hedging slide just recognize that that's on a dollar basis and so we have hedged a very significant portion of all those assets.
In general we would expect to see some advantage from what you're talking about the market changes flowing through what we call asset optimization.
So generally as those markets strengthen prospectively it would give us more opportunities for optimizing around the hedge positions that we've taken.
Just as an add-on to that I mean this quarter because the weather was so mild and markets were relatively flat provided very few opportunities for that kind of asset optimization.
So I think that's more where we would see the benefit coming in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one other question.
Just -- I want to make sure I have my arms around how much -- or if there's a way you can quantify what the delta between GAAP and cash taxes will likely be over the next couple of years.
The short answer is not off the top of my head.
Let me think about that some Michael and I will follow up with you.
Research Division</strong> Got it I would just -- you can kind of look at the deferred tax balances the asset liability on the balance sheet and recognize this could be a significant source of cash for both Energy Resources and the parent obviously depending what happens with bonus D&amp;A.
Just trying to get my arms -- trying to quantify that a little bit.
Happy to follow up off-line.
Yes okay I see where you're going.
Yes at that level based on current tax law we would expect to again be a cash taxpayer in 2014.
And once we're back in that mode then we start to draw down the deferred balances very rapidly.
So you're absolutely right in terms of the direction and the sort of the trend there.
But that is also as you point out dependent on tax law.
And the biggest single factor that has caused us to be -- not to be a cash taxpayer for several years as well as many other people in the industry is bonus depreciation.
So if bonus gets extended at 100% then that clearly just pushes out the time at which we put back to being a cash taxpayer.
But I'll follow up with you off-line to talk about more of the details of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and last question why -- from an accounting perspective why leave the $0.06 at Energy Resources tied to the unwind of the hedges why leave that in adjusted EPS? Basically because the position has been resolved so that the mark on those hedges that we would otherwise have kept in NQH against an unmarked asset is now sort of out in the open and clean.
So one way to think about it is effectively we have drawn forward in time earnings that we otherwise would have expected to have realized over time.
We'll go next to Brian Chin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on Seabrook.
The year-over-year effect of $0.04 is that primarily driven by just simply lower hedged prices and energy sales prices per megawatt hour? Or is there more of a terawatt hour effect from running the plant at a lower capacity level? Well there's 2 effects.
There is the hedge prices.
There's a lower hedge price impact but the bigger impact is just lower output from the plant.
Research Division</strong> And should we assume that that lower output level will persist until we get to the next outage in October of this year? Is that the right way to think about that? Yes exactly.
We're constrained because of the limits on our ability to cool the parts of a generator to lower output and that will be resolved once we get to the refueling outage in the fall.
We'll go next to Jay Dobson with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Moray would love to also talk about the upstream gas.
Can you talk about the other side of the equation which is what is the current investment in that upstream gas business and sort of what prevents you from having to write down some of those investments sort of while you're realizing the benefit in the hedges from the lower gas prices? And then a tag onto that just sort of now with the look forward where we are in gas prices sort of what's your commitment to the upstream gas business? In terms of the answer to the first about $600 million is -- has been invested in the business.
On the second part of your question let me make sure that -- I may not have been clear.
This is basically closing out hedges against wells that we don't intend to commit capital to.
So there's no investment against them.
We entered into the hedges against expected output.
And now we're not going to pursue them so we simply close out the hedge which is in the money.
I mean effectively you've got an option when you do that.
If prices move up or down a little bit you go ahead with the drilling program and you have your expected margin on the wells.
If prices drop significantly at some point they drop enough that it becomes -- and the money value of the hedges exceeds the margin that you expect to make on the wells.
In which case you don't drill the wells and you just close out the hedges.
So that's what we've done in a few instances.
So as we were discussing earlier I think with Dan it's -- the way to think about that is it's a capital reallocation opportunity.
It means the future capital that we thought would go into one set of wells is now potentially available to go into other sets of wells so that the result is not any issue of impairment.
Wells that we have committed to obviously will be subject to the standard accounting impairment test.
But that's really not an issue right now.
And then in the course of answering the first 2 parts I lost track of your third part of your question.
Research Division</strong> No no absolutely and I fully understood the accounting here.
What I'm trying to get at -- and maybe the best way is the last question which is you're realizing benefits from closing out hedges in wells you decided not to drill but it obviously says something about the future prospects of that business if nothing else on the wells you've decided not to drill.
Talk a little bit about sort of your commitment to that business on an ongoing basis.
Okay.
I see where you're going.
Yes I think certain parts of the -- but obviously the weaker lower expected output dry gas plays are a lot less attractive in a low gas environment.
So you see capital moving away from those kinds of plays.
At least what we're seeing is there are still plenty of good opportunities out there.
But I guess I just go back to things that I've just spoken to many folks about over the last few weeks.
In the end natural gases market like any other are subject to both supply and demand effects.
So as you see strong downward pressure on prices going forward you're going to see both demand side reactions and supply side reactions.
On the supply side you're clearly going to see a combination of capital moving away from more marginal areas and concentrating on the most productive ones.
You will over time see a reduction in the aggregate capital being deployed relative to what it would otherwise been.
To me it's just the normal workings of supply and demand.
The critical questions are what time frame -- over what time frame is that all going to work out? And I think what we have seen really in the last year or so is a general revision in market expectations that while there will be a reaction both on the supply and the demand side it's probably going to take longer than people were thinking a year or so ago.
We would certainly concur with that.
I would also underline that there are both short-term effects and longer-term effects.
And the short term can be very quite different obviously because physical constraints on storage you can get into situations as we've had this year where there's really no place for the gas to go and that puts a very strong downward pressure on the front end of the curve.
We still like a small participation in the business.
And I just emphasized again that we have developed a tremendous amount of information value out of participating in this.
It has significantly affected our hedging decisions over the last few years.
And clearly our participation there has been responsible for a lot of the in-the-money value that we now have in our existing power and gas hedges.
Research Division</strong> Great.
On a sort of related question I was hoping Moray you could talk a bit about Gexa and the Texas retail.
Obviously a year ago we were seeing the negative impacts of the Texas freeze and just sort of how that business performed in the first quarter.
Gexa had a good first quarter.
I don't know that there's much special to report on there.
Obviously the interest is all focused on the summer months.
I'm sure you've been following what's been happening to [indiscernible] Texas over the summer.
We have made some changes to the way that we're approaching the management the execution of the Texas portfolio that should leave us in a better position for a tight summer.
But I will also reemphasize what I've said before which is a competitive supply business like Gexa is going to be hurt in extreme market conditions.
So we look to offset that in the other parts of the portfolio.
Research Division</strong> No that's perfect.
And the last question just sort of if you could give me an idea of the current status of your re-contracting efforts around Duane Arnold.
Alliant has been somewhat vocal about sort of not going forward with the re-contracting when the contract expires in February of '14 and just sort of what you view as sort of your side of it and then what your alternatives are.
Sure.
We are pursuing a number of different possibilities there.
There are lots of customers in that part of the country and we have had a number of discussions and expressions of interest.
I think it's still early in that whole process.
So clearly the market is different from what it was when we entered into the original contract and we understand that and we have that reflected in our expectations.
But I'm confident that we will have an appropriate mix of re-contracting when the time comes.
Research Division</strong> Yes to be doing similarly you don't expect it to be with Alliant as the off-taker? I'm not going to get into individual names.
We'll go next to Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just wanted to touch base with you guys on the production tax credit versus the CITCs.
Could you just tell us what they were for the quarter? Yes.
Bear with me one second while I find the right sheet.
It was 450 megawatts that we expect to take this year amounts to about $50 million of CITC over the course of the year.
The first quarter was heavily loaded.
It was about 20 of that because we have one project that went into service in the quarter.
So I guess all of it's CITC then.
Okay and then the production tax credit? Well PTCs would be on the remaining 850 megawatts or so.
Whatever that amounts to I haven't got the -- but recognize that most of those projects come in in the third and fourth quarters so they're not going to have a great deal of impact on 2012.
Okay great.
And then the O&amp;M I noticed it increased.
Of course your wind productions increased as well.
Is that pretty much the reason why? Or is there anything else we should be thinking about? No there was only about $0.01 altogether from O&amp;M and other operating --nothing significant there.
Okay and then just finally on Seabrook just to understand this just a follow-up on Brian's question.
There's -- the majority of the $0.04 is because of this cooling issue which should be resolved in the fall.
Is that correct? So we should basically be thinking of that not being an issue I guess in 2000 -- in the next year correct? I think it's about $0.02 or $0.03 of that.
A quarter? Of the $0.04 about $0.02 or $0.03 is associated with the down power.
Okay so should see that over the next couple quarters but then that will be gone going forward after the changes that are made? Yes I think that's roughly right.
I'm trying -- I don't know.
Depending on the shape of the pricing of the hedges I don't know.
But roughly that yes.
All right just a follow up on that I've just been passed a slipped a paper telling me that the total impact of the down power for the full year is about $25 million.
Makes sense.
We'll go next to Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify your comments about getting your 2014 aspiration regardless of what happens in Congress can we imply that if Washington can get its act together and we do get a PTC extension there's upside to that forecast? Yes absolutely.
If -- we tried to present the expectations on this basis because there was certainly at one time a fair amount of confusion about what we had built into the numbers and what we didn't so what's here is only the projects that we have in backlog.
So to the extent that a policy support is continued in some form or another and we are able to translate that into additional projects that can get done in the '13 '14 time frame that would clearly be upside.
So just to repeat we have no U.S.
wind in the expectations at this stage beyond 2012.
Research Division</strong> And since your forecast assumes no tax credit extension do you have built into that forecast a share repurchase? Certainly in terms of the numbers that we put out there how we get there is with the expectation of some share repurchase out in 2014.
Again I want emphasize that that's by no means a commitment and it does depend as we repeatedly said on whether or not we're able to find additional good attractive investment opportunity.
But if we are not we would definitely be in a position to contemplate returning cash to shareholders in 2014.
Research Division</strong> And what's your preferred method of returning cash? Is it -- would it be dividend or actually return of capital to share repurchase? I think it would clearly depend on the circumstances at the time and I guess 2 scenarios that I would throw out to think about depending on how we saw the future going forward from 2014.
To the extent that we saw the free cash flow positive balance as being sustained over a multi-year period then I think other things equal we'd be more inclined to go the dividend route.
To the extent that we saw it as a temporary phenomenon with the investment opportunities coming back a year or 2 later I think we'd be more inclined to contemplate the repurchase route.
But that's just kind of thinking out loud and obviously it would depend on the actual facts and circumstances at the time.
Fortunately we have time to think about that and obviously we a lot of work to do to get out to 2014.
We'll go next to Ashar Khan with Visium Asset Management.
Moray can I just -- going to Slide 5 which shows the impact of regulated earnings on FPL year-over-year and if I'm right you mentioned the $0.07 came from the increase in rate base.
And if one was to make the assumption because you mentioned you're going to be adding rate base for the year and 1/4 is in the first quarter and I guess can we expect this $0.07 to repeat every quarter because of the spending going forward in the year? I haven't looked at the exact profile of capital spending.
So I could not say for sure that we're going to be at that level consistently.
I fact I kind of doubt we will be.
I suspect this is a fairly intensive quarter of growth just thinking about the overall growth in capital employed.
So I wouldn't extrapolate from that.
Okay and then just on the clause was that clause just -- I guess the nuclear upgrade expansion is an ongoing thing.
Was the solar like -- isn't that also ongoing? Or is that again front-end loaded in the quarter? Really the entire clause impact is coming from the -- material is coming from the nuclear operate.
Okay so that expenditure if I'm right continues on the whole year.
Correct.
And we'll take our final question from Kamal Patel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered so I'm going to go a default question.
What has been the generic feedback on the Florida rate case filing? All the -- last time around you tried to focus on the base rate aspects of it and deemphasize the fuel.
Just wondering what the uptake has been sort of to date.
I don't know but I could say it has been a lot of reaction.
I think the basic elements of the rate case were understood when we made the test year [ph] letter in filings so I'm not sure that there's been a great deal of a reaction so far.
I think that in addition that the basic drivers of that need for rate relief are well-understood.
So we're beginning to get into the process of discovery in which the interveners ask for all kinds of documents and all kinds of responses to questions and I don't think there's anything out of the ordinary there.
And that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy 2012 Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Julie Holmes Director of Investor Relations for NextEra Energy Inc.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Audra.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining us this morning are Jim Robo President and Chief Operating Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources LLC; and Eric Silagy President of Florida Power &amp; Light Company.
Moray will provide an overview of our results following which Jim will touch on our strategy for future growth.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward looking.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Julie.
Good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered solid results during the second quarter of 2012 and built on the progress made in the first quarter.
The company remains on track to achieve the goals we outlined for this year and we believe we are well positioned to attain our longer-range expectations.
At FPL we continue to invest in the business at a record rate to deliver even more value to our customers.
Regulatory capital employed grew $3.7 billion or 17.5% versus the second quarter of 2011 and we recorded a regulatory ROE of 11% consistent with the 2010 settlement agreement.
As a result our net income increased $52 million compared with the same quarter last year.
Energy Resources' contribution to adjusted earnings in the second quarter increased $0.04 compared with the same quarter last year.
Contributions from new investments helped offset declines from our existing assets which stemmed primarily from below-average wind resource this quarter versus above-average wind resource in the second quarter of 2011.
Overall we continue development on the renewables projects in our backlog and remain on track for the goals we laid out at the beginning of the year.
In Florida the early signs of economic recovery we witnessed in prior quarters appear to have slowed.
After significant employment growth in late 2011 Florida's pace of job creation has slowed.
The Florida unemployment rate in June was flat compared to May but has dropped more than 2% since this time last year.
Consumer confidence in Florida increased in June relative to last year but declined versus the prior month.
We saw an uptick in tourism taxable sales which are now trending above the levels seen prior to the recession and the housing market continues to show signs of modest improvement.
Notwithstanding the somewhat hesitant recovery we continue to invest in the business to provide greater value for our customers and to keep our overall bills low.
We are making major investments to modernize our generation fleet and increase our nuclear generation output to be more efficient to reduce emissions and to drive down fuel costs for customers.
Over the lives of these projects we expect that fuel and other savings will more than offset the capital and operating costs of these projects.
At Energy Resources our focus has been on executing the plans for our record backlog of renewables projects.
All of our projects continue to proceed with no significant changes in the execution timeline.
As a result of the progress we have made in the first half of the year our overall financial expectations remain about the same as we previously discussed.
For 2012 we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $4.35 to $4.65 and for 2014 we continue to see a range of $5.05 to $5.65 subject to all the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
Let's now look at our results for the second quarter of 2012.
I'll start with the results at FPL before moving on to Energy Resources and then the consolidated numbers.
For the second quarter of 2012 FPL reported net income of $353 million or $0.85 per share up $0.13 per share year-over-year.
The principal driver of FPL's earnings growth was continued investment in the business.
During the quarter we invested roughly $1.1 billion of the approximately $4.1 billion that we expect to invest in the business in 2012 and regulatory capital employed that is capital on which we are able to earn a return grew 17.5% over the same quarter last year.
During the quarter we amortized $165 million of surplus depreciation enabling us to maintain a regulatory ROE of 11%.
For the full year we expect to amortize approximately $500 million of surplus depreciation after which there will remain roughly $200 million to be amortized.
As we stated last quarter utilization of $190 million of the surplus in 2013 is built into our rate case filing.
As we've discussed on previous calls FPL is in the midst of the largest capital deployment phase in its history.
In the second quarter we received approval from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or NRC for power uprates on Turkey Point units 3 and 4 and earlier this month we received NRC approval for the uprate at Unit 1 of our St.
Lucie nuclear facility.
St.
Lucie Unit 2 is currently moving through the approval process and we expect to receive NRC approval in the third quarter of this year.
In total these 4 projects are expected to contribute approximately 490 megawatts of additional clean generation capacity which in turn will drive down customer's fuel cost.
The modernizations at our Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach facilities are progressing as planned.
The projects are anticipated to come into service in mid-2013 and 2014 respectively and are expected to provide $850 million to $950 million in total present value cost savings to our customers over the lives of the plants.
We experienced the first storms of the season in the second quarter with our service territory being affected by Tropical Storms Beryl and Debby.
Tropical Storm Debby drenched the west coast of Florida for days before passing through the state.
And through the hard work of our employees power was restored to 99% of the impacted customers within 24 hours.
In Florida most economic indicators we follow have improved significantly from the trough of the recession.
However we are seeing symptoms that the recovery is slowing here in Florida just as it seems to be for the nation as a whole.
As we've repeatedly noted we do not believe Florida will see a full recovery until the rest of the country sees more consistent signs of growth.
Many of the metrics we focus on have recently flattened creating a level of uncertainty around what we had hoped was evidence of a sustained economic recovery.
In June the Florida unemployment rate was 8.6% unchanged from the prior month.
On a positive note the gap between the unemployment rate in Florida and the U.S.
has narrowed and Florida is now just 0.4% worse than the national rate.
Looking to job creation in June 70 900 new jobs were reported in Florida compared to the same month in 2011.
While the improvement in the job market has slowed recently almost all residential housing statistics point to a continued recovery in Florida.
Mortgage delinquencies continue to drop and are at their lowest level since 2008.
The inventory of existing homes for sale reported by Florida realtors is at its lowest point in more than 4 years.
As Florida reduces the inventory of existing homes more room is made for the addition of new homes and we are seeing that trend manifest in the housing permit data.
In May housing permits increased 58% year-over-year the largest annual increase in roughly 2 years although of course on a very low base.
While the mortgage and housing data are encouraging continued employment gains declining unemployment rates and improvement in the national economy are important to the sustainability of housing market improvements.
We will monitor these and other data points but we continue to believe Florida will provide above-average growth opportunities over the long term.
Our customer metrics at FPL are naturally tied to the pace of economic recovery both in Florida and nationally.
With the recent lull in recovery our customer metrics appear to have stabilized for the moment.
During the second quarter we had approximately 27 000 more customers than in the comparable quarter of 2011 representing an increase of 0.6%.
This growth rate has been fairly consistent for the last 9 quarters.
And while we are encouraged by continued customer growth we of course would like to see the pace of that growth improve over time.
Underlying usage increased for the third consecutive quarter up 1.7% over the same quarter last year.
We are particularly encouraged by increases in underlying usage in the residential sector.
The commercial sector however seems to be lagging a bit.
We still hesitate to extrapolate underlying usage growth to a broader context as usage over time can be volatile.
The number of inactive meters and the percentage of low-usage customers which are indicative of the number of empty homes declined in June versus the same period last year but were relatively flat compared to May.
Overall our key customer metrics continue to improve albeit more slowly than we would like.
As you recall in the first quarter we formally filed a request for base rate increase and submitted testimony along with extensive supporting documentation for FPL's 2012 base rate case.
We requested a base revenue increase of $516.5 million effective the beginning of January 2013 with an additional step increase of $173.9 million when the Canaveral modernization comes into service in June 2013.
Included in these amounts is our request to reset the allowed ROE to 11.25% plus a 25-basis-point performance adder designed to recognize FPL's excellent overall customer value but to be maintained only so long as FPL's typical bill remains the lowest in the state.
The quality of service hearings will conclude in August and intervenor and staff testimony have been filed.
We will be submitting rebuttal testimony next week.
The technical hearing will begin in late August and we expect a staff recommendation and commission ruling on revenue requirements and rates in the fourth quarter.
The rate case thus far is proceeding much as we expected with intervenor testimony and consumer sentiment in line with what we had anticipated.
As we have previously stated at its core the rate case boils down to 3 issues: recovering the capital and operating costs for Cape Canaveral a plant that we expect will more than pay for itself over its lifetime through fuel savings; addressing the impact of the accelerated amortization of surplus depreciation ordered by the prior commission and implemented under the 2010 rate agreement; and resetting the allowed ROE to a more reasonable level than the current 10%.
We remain open to the possibility of resolving the issues addressed in the rate case through settlement but our focus is on preparing for the technical hearing in August.
We continue to believe our superior customer value demonstrated by award-winning customer service high reliability and the lowest average residential bill in the state provides strong support for our request.
If our request is granted our typical residential bill is expected to remain the lowest in the state emphasizing the affordability of our service.
In April we updated our expected total bill impact to reflect revised estimated fuel prices costs for ongoing construction of upgrades at our Florida nuclear facilities and adjusted data related to the requested base rate increase.
Based on the April data the base portion of a typical residential customer's bill is expected to increase by $7.09 per month or roughly $0.23 per day while the total bill impact would be just $1.41 per month or $0.05 per day which is lower than we initially projected.
Some commercial customers are likely to see their total bills go down.
We will continue to monitor the changing bill impact throughout the rate case process if fuel prices fluctuate.
Regardless of the level of fuel prices our investments in high-efficiency generation will mean fuel savings for our customers.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported second quarter 2012 GAAP earnings of $251 million or $0.60 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter were $173 million or $0.41 per share.
Adjusted earnings exclude the effect of the mark on non-qualifying hedges and net other than temporary impairments on certain investments or OTTI.
Overall Energy Resources' contribution to adjusted EPS increased $0.04 year-over-year driven primarily by contributions from new additions.
Earnings from existing assets declined $0.09 versus the second quarter last year due in large part to less favorable wind resource when compared to the same quarter last year.
This decrease was offset by the fact that last year's second quarter results were reduced by $0.08 from asset impairment charges.
All other effects were minor as shown in the accompanying slide.
We continue to execute on our backlog of renewables projects with the remainder of our 1 300 megawatts of U.S.
wind on track to come into service in the latter portion of the year.
Our solar projects continue to make good progress with no significant changes to our expected in-service dates.
In Spain we are closely following the actions of the government but have no official word yet on a course of action.
Looking at the company on a consolidated basis.
For the second quarter of 2012 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $607 million or $1.45 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2012 second quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $527 million and $1.26 respectively.
The Corporate &amp; Other segment was down $0.09 from the same quarter last year when we experienced an uplift primarily due to consolidated income tax adjustments related to state tax law changes.
Separately our Lone Star transmission project remains on track and we continue to expect to bring the line into full service in the spring of 2013.
As we evaluate our growth for the balance of the year and into 2013 we remain focused on maintaining solid credit metrics.
As we have previously discussed we consider our credit rating important and a competitive advantage in this market.
We are committed to a strong cash position and to sourcing the right mix of financial products in order to maintain our rating.
We presented the principles underlying our approach to managing our balance sheet and credit position at our Fixed Income investor conference in May the presentations from which are posted on our website.
As stated there both Energy Resources and FPL are in the largest investment phase either have seen in recent history and this places stress on our balance sheet and credit metrics.
We expect to continue accessing a diverse group of financial instruments to support our growth plans and maintain our balance sheet strength.
As we've noted we expect our credit metrics to improve as we move into 2013 and 2014 but it is important to maintain our strength in 2012 as well.
We expect to issue another round of equity units later in the year although at this point we have not determined what the aggregate amount should be.
We may go above the upper end of the range of $500 million to $1 billion that we have previously disclosed.
However whatever amount we choose to issue is not expected to have a material impact on the EPS expectations that we have shared with you for 2012 and 2014.
Our development team continues to look for growth opportunities in the market but absent additional investment we continue to expect to be free cash flow positive in 2014.
As we stated earlier this year we are targeting a 55% dividend payout ratio in 2014 as a consequence of the mix of our portfolio continuing to shift towards more regulated and long-term contracted assets.
This translates into a compound annual growth rate for dividends of approximately 10% using a 2011 base.
Separately we have received a number of questions on differential membership interest transactions also known as tax equity.
In an effort to provide more detail around how these structures work the benefits they provide to us and the impact on our financial statements we have posted a presentation on our Investor Relations website.
We encourage you to examine this and follow up with additional questions.
In light of the results achieved year-to-date and the progress made against our execution objectives we see no reason to change our EPS expectations for this year or for the longer term.
We continue to expect adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.35 to $4.65 for 2012 and for 2014 we currently see a range of $5.05 to $5.65.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
While we have not looked as deeply at the numbers beyond 2014 we also expect to maintain our growth momentum into 2015 with continued contributions from new assets expected to come into service at both FPL and Energy Resources.
From a commodity perspective we're highly hedged in 2015 as well.
Note that our financial expectations take into account current market conditions and we are not depending on or anticipating any great strengthening in the natural gas market.
As we do each quarter we have updated our 2012 and 2013 equivalent hedged gross margin slides for Energy Resources and they can be found in the appendix to the presentation.
There were no significant changes compared to the first quarter earnings release.
To reiterate what we've said in the past our financial expectations do not include any additional U.S.
wind build beyond 2012 due to the uncertainties surrounding the extension of the production tax credit after the end of this year.
We continue to be optimistic that the PTC will reemerge in some form following this year's election and should that be the case any investment in U.S.
wind beyond 2012 would contribute upside to our current expectations.
Before taking your questions I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Robo.
As you know Jim assumed the CEO role at the beginning of the month having served as Chief Operating Officer for nearly 6 years and having led Energy Resources for 4 years before that.
Jim? Thanks Moray and good morning everyone.
It gives me great pleasure to talk to you in my new role.
Moray has given you an overview of another solid quarter for our company and I won't repeat his comments.
Instead I want to say a few words about our future.
I know a number of you have asked whether you should expect any changes in strategy under a new CEO and I'm sure all of you will appreciate any insight I can give you into our plans for the future.
The short answer to the question about strategy is that I expect our strategy to be consistent but our implementation will need to adapt as it has repeatedly in the past to changes in the outside world.
At Florida Power &amp; Light the core of our strategy has been for many years to strive constantly to improve the value we deliver to our customers.
Today FPL offers its residential customers a bill that is 25% below the national average and the lowest typical bill of all 55 utilities in the state of Florida coupled with top quartile reliability award-winning customer service and a very clean emissions profile.
We are investing heavily in the business to ensure our value delivery gets even better over time.
We expect that our investments in new generation will save customers fuel costs and improve our emissions profile that investments in our transmission and distribution infrastructure will increase our systems resiliency and reliability and that investments in advanced meters will offer customers more feedback in control of their electricity usage as well as make our internal procedures more efficient.
If we receive fair and balanced treatment through the regulatory process our investors will benefit along with our customers.
At Energy Resources our strategy is not as easy to capture in a few words but it has always reflected a balance between a steady view of a long-term vision captured succinctly by loose terms scale skills scale and scope and a pragmatic recognition that every goal in the competitive power space must be pursued opportunistically.
A decade and more of sustained effort has led to the creation of a business that is not only the largest renewable energy producer in the country but one that also contains many other business capabilities all linked together by a strong economic logic.
We will seek ways to continue to build the business subject to the opportunity set that the external world offers us.
Across both businesses I expect us to maintain our focus on clean energy on being low cost and on maintaining our track record of excellent execution.
In addition underpinning our success in both our major businesses has been an important competitive weapon our balance sheet.
We have long been believers in the need for financial strength in this capital-intensive cyclical business and I do not expect that to change.
We have also combined our financial strength with a culture of financial discipline and a commitment to strong risk management.
That too will not change.
I do not claim that we have never made mistakes nor that we never will in the future.
But I do believe our discipline and risk management have served us well in the past and will continue to serve us well going forward.
As a new CEO I consider myself very fortunate.
I have been an integral part of all the major decisions of the past decade that got us to where we are today so I understand the situation I'm presented with.
Our business overall is in great shape and I can concentrate immediately on 2 things: continued execution against the practical objectives listed on this slide that will see us grow out through the middle of this decade and putting in place the building blocks for new initiatives that will help us carry that growth into and through the second half of the decade.
This is not the occasion for a detailed discussion of our plans for 2016 and beyond other than to say that we feel comfortable that the company has an attractive set of growth opportunities going forward.
I look forward to the opportunity to speak with you in more depth on this subject at the various conferences that some of you will be hosting in the fall and at our next investor conference which we are tentatively scheduling for late in the year.
To close I'd like to remind you of our track record over the last decade under Lew's leadership.
During that period we have significantly outperformed the relevant industry benchmarks as well as the S&amp;P 500 index and in the process have added more than $24 billion in value $18 billion through price appreciation and more than $6 billion through dividends.
That value creation is a tribute to Lew's leadership and to the hard work of all our NextEra Energy employees.
Not the least of Lew's achievements has been the development of the team that has been responsible for delivering these results.
I am fortunate to have that team with me today ready to meet the challenges of the next decade.
We are all fully committed to seeing that we continue our long-term track record of outperformance.
Thank you for your continued support of our company and Moray and I now look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Dan Eggers at Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> To ask my first question is there wasn't any changes to the backlog for wind and solar in the quarter.
But could you just share a little color on opportunities you may be seeing and where the conversations are going as far as maybe adding more solar projects over the remainder of this year into the backlog? Sure.
Let me ask Armando to address that.
Great.
Dan we're certainly seeing some opportunities in the market both on a short-term basis and on a longer-term basis.
I'm not ready to talk about specifics of what those might be on the short term.
But on the longer-term basis during the quarter you did see us close on a $10 million purchase of 1 000 megawatt area out in California which supports 4 250-megawatt sites.
There's no power purchase agreement associated with those sites but those sites do bring some very favorable transmission and resource adequacy to our portfolio.
We're out looking for power purchase agreement at this point and we're hopeful that we would have something to talk about at some point next year.
In the near term I will say that the uncertainty over production tax credits moving forward in 2013 and 2014 is creating some opportunities both here in the U.S.
and Canada that we are taking a look at closely.
Research Division</strong> Armando does that mean that there's people looking to sell develop their in-process projects or just that you're seeing people actually willing to assign contracts on things for '13 and '14? Actually we're -- both.
We're seeing a few opportunities of folks some developers that have projects that have taken pretty far into the development process but their uncertainty regarding production tax credits in 2013 and 2014 is making them seek some additional capital outside of what they have.
But we're also seeing not as much and we -- and Moray has talked about this before.
We and others are building a significant amount of renewables in the U.S.
in 2012.
It should be a record year for the industry and a record year for us.
That has certainly sapped some of the 2013 demand even if there is an extension of the production tax credit.
But we are seeing some of our customers ask for quotes and bids on 2013 and 2014 both on a contingent PTC basis and on a noncontingent PTC basis.
Research Division</strong> I guess Moray just one question on tax equity.
You guys said you're going to be -- start being a cash tax payer in '14.
Does that mean you guys are done in the tax equity market for the time being given the fact you have visibility now to kind of get into the excess backlog? No that continues to be the balance that we've talked about before that we need to strike between essentially the incremental cost that you pay through a differential partnership deal versus the present value benefit of pulling forward in time when you would otherwise realize tax credits.
So that trade-off exists almost regardless of when you expect that cash tax position to flip around.
Obviously the closer in it is the less valuable the tax equity power will be.
But you should not assume that that means that we won't be doing more transactions.
And next we'll move to Michael Lapides at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
One just kind of a little bit of a housekeeping in Florida and then the other Spain.
In Florida did the storms that occur I think it was late last month have an impact on O&amp;M? And if so could you quantify kind of -- did it increase -- how much did it increase O&amp;M versus kind of expectation? And then second you made a comment Moray about the waiting to hear about the Spanish government regarding the project there.
Can you just give a little more detail? Yes.
On the FPL O&amp;M not material.
On Spain as I think many of you are aware there have been a whole variety of proposals is probably too strong a word but possibilities floated around trial balloons.
Some of which we believe had some basis in fact some of which we're not sure have any basis in fact.
But certainly there are discussions about the potential for taxing the energy sector either in aggregate or differentially by technology.
And clearly to the extent that our project was subject to an excise tax or something of that nature that would affect the economics.
We just don't have enough insight at this stage to know which way the government is going to go or how significant those might be.
It seems pretty clear that if the impact was limited to what it needed to address the tariff deficit within the electricity sector that could be achieved with should we say levels of pain that are tolerable.
If the government seeks to -- really to try and attack a portion of the broader fiscal deficit on the backs of the energy sector then that could have a different impact.
So as I say we're sort of monitoring the thing.
We're staying close to it.
Obviously we are articulating our viewpoint as is everybody else there and we just have to wait and see.
Research Division</strong> Do you have the ability to pull back on the project if the -- I would say the operating or the government environment for renewables there turns against you? In principle we always have that ability but we're well along in construction.
We still like the project.
We think it's going to be a good project.
So I think it would have to be a fairly extreme situation for us to sort of completely reverse course.
I think what we're talking about is what is the impact on the economics and more broadly what's -- what is the impact on our view of Spain as a place to do business and invest for the capital in the future.
Well next is Stephen Byrd at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just talk to the appetite for the development of a regional natural gas transmission pipeline.
I know that's been a potential topic of discussion in the past.
Just curious in your conversations how that's progressing.
Well as we've discussed several times before we continue to believe that there is need for-- a good case to be made for a third pipeline into Florida.
I don't really have a lot to update you on.
We've said before that we are optimistic that we'll be able to be in a position to come forward later in the year with more specifics.
We're continuing to evaluate a bunch of different possible scenarios on that I think getting closer to what we think makes the most sense.
But I think timing is still hopefully later in the year for us to be more explicit about that.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And just shifting the Texas.
In your conversations in the state and with ERCOT could you give us a sense for the degree of appetite that you see for consideration of a capacity-like mechanism to ensure that the market isn't -- is adequately incenting folks to build new plants in the state? Well I'm not sure we want to mention the capacity word but some reliability supplementary payment mechanism may be appropriate.
Let me ask Armando to comment on that.
Yes there's been a ton of discussion obviously and there's proposals on the table at ERCOT that folks are responding to.
My sense is that the word capacity -- let's take the word out.
The mechanisms that would allow payments to be made to generators hopefully to support the generation and to bring new generation into the area which is clearly needed in 2014 both by ERCOT's estimates and by ours estimates that it's moving along more favorably I'll say than it was over the last 6 months.
That doesn't mean that there's going to be a capacity market.
But as Moray pointed out we are hopeful that there will be some mechanism that recognizes that generators need an incentive in order to build new generation.
So I'm hopeful that there will be changes.
But in the near term for 2013 and 2014 ERCOT is frankly short of capacity.
And Stephen let me just supplement that with -- noting that without that supplementary reliability payment you get a market that is either very flat as it has been so far this summer because there really hasn't been much tightness or a market which peaks out and induces a lot of stress for a short period of time with consequent trouble for suppliers and customers alike.
We don't think that that's a very functional structure.
So getting some more supplementary capacity into the market clearly would be a good thing long term for customers.
Next we'll go to Jonathan Arnold at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just curious on the Resources results you called out an $8 -- it's an $0.08 -- the absence of the $0.08 impairment charge from last year is one of the drivers I believe in the $0.09 interest G&amp;A and other.
There seems to be like a $57 million gain on disposals in the quarter.
Can you -- as well.
Could you shed any light on was that one specific item or a number of items and what's the right tax rate we should be using on that? Yes sure.
It's a number of items.
We did have a small gain a few million dollars on the sale of a project.
But the bulk of it is associated with the decommissioning funds and actually more than half of it this may get a little technical but is effectively not included in our adjusted earnings because it's an offset to OTTI that we previously took out of adjusted earnings in prior periods.
In other words we -- in a prior period we for GAAP purposes marked down certain securities in the nuclear decommissioning trusts because we didn't have substantive evidence that they would recover.
But in fact they have recovered.
We have sold them now at a gain in the course of the regular management of the NDTs.
And so we can't in fairness take a -- that gain into adjusted earnings when we took the negative but it's now offsetting out of adjusted earnings.
So more than half of that actually is netted out and is in -- is a reversal in the OTTI piece.
There is a little piece that's real gains on just the normal transactions in the decommissioning trust.
That's what's going on there.
Research Division</strong> So where does that reversal show up? Sorry Moray I'm not following that.
It shows up in the reconciliation between GAAP earnings and adjusted earnings down below in the OTTI piece.
So the OTTI adjustment has a different sign than it typically has.
We can follow up take you through the numbers later on if you like.
We'll go next to Hugh Wynne at Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had just 2 quick questions on the Florida Power &amp; Light side of the business.
In your estimates of the base rate impact of the rate request that you put to the commission.
You estimate also the savings to the customers from lower fuel cost.
Can you share the expected sensitivity of customer bills to a $1 move in the price of natural gas? I don't have that off the top of my head.
We'd be happy to follow up and take a rough crack at it.
I mean it's a little hard to see because it filters through.
It depends on your assumptions about the dispatch of a fleet.
So typically when we come up with these estimates we're making up -- we're hypothetically dispatching the fleet against the forward curve so we don't have that sort of sensitivity ready to hand.
But we'll follow up with you on that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question regarding the target higher dividend payout ratio which you point out is associated with a shift to a greater earnings contribution from your regulated and contracted businesses.
Ordinarily there the payout ratio I think is also a decision that's taken in light of the capital requirements of those businesses and the growth in their asset base.
Based on '14 rate base growth it would seem to me that longer term there's an expectation of something like 3.5% growth in FPL rate base.
But I wanted to ask you what was the assumption that you factored into that 55% dividend payout decision.
Well the board feel comfortable with targeting the 55% in 2014 based fundamentally on the mix shift and a view of a range of possibilities for where we might be going beyond that.
So you mentioned the 3.5% number.
I don't think we have enough insight today to really know what the growth in rate base might be beyond 2014.
But we felt that 55% was sufficiently conservative.
That under most of the likely scenarios we would still be able to fund the growth without having to resort too much to sort of just coming to the capital markets in order to raise capital in order to pay the dividend if you see what I mean.
So I don't have a specific expectation going out.
But I think if you look at how we derived in essence the 55% number it was a function of saying okay what do fully regulated businesses typically pay out in terms of payout ratio what's the range there.
What sort of payout ratio is supportable by a business that is fundamentally around long-term contracts that's obviously a lower amount and then what's the payout ratio for a business that has merchant assets which is essentially 0 and we then weight average those.
So in a sense it's what should be a sustainable payout ratio based on the portfolio mix as it will be in 2014.
So going beyond that if that mix itself changes radically beyond 2014 that might cause us to rethink that for future years.
We'll go next to Steven Fleishman at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just Moray you mentioned in your prepared remarks that you might go above the high end on the equity units offering for the year.
Could you just give some sense on what -- if so what would be driving that? Is that a function of more investment opportunities that you're seeing? Is that a function of the stock price? Just...
It's more a function of the sort of tactical issues around where we're likely to come out on cash flow making sure that we have enough liquidity through the end of the year making sure that the cash balances are roughly where we want to be.
A couple of things I would note as we've often discussed on the project finance side we really like to have our projects as far along and complete and clean as they can be when we go to the project finance market because that's how we get the best deal out of those.
So given that the build here is concentrated heavily late in the year we actually may not get to execution on some of the project finance transactions that really are associated with the CapEx for this year until next year.
So that means we got to come up with cash in the meantime.
And as I've said before we're going to watch the 2012 metrics as well.
So that's one thing.
Another thing is that we have some opportunities I don't want to -- for commercial reasons I don't want to go into details.
But we have some opportunities to accelerate some capital expenditures in the year in exchange for commercial advantages but obviously we have to have the cash to come up with that.
So that all that gets factored into the liquidity analysis and says how much cash do you need and then obviously you got to have a balanced mix of financing.
So right now my thinking is that we may well do another issue of comparable size to the one that we did earlier in the year.
But as I said in the prepared remarks we haven't settled on a final amount yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just any kind of updates on what you're seeing on -- in Washington on the PTC and I guess some of the other renewables-related legislation that has popped up? Yes.
I don't really have a lot new to report there.
There continues to be a lot of discussion.
I think at the margin the discussion is proceeding in a favorable direction by which I mean that more people are coming to recognize that it doesn't make good economic sense to cut the PTC off 100% instantly.
At the same time as I've also said many times before we do see a strong political view to the effect that there have to be a definite end in sight for this kind of support and that's a concept that we have indicated publicly that we can accept.
Obviously the devil is in the details.
So I think we're making progress on the discussion.
But we continue to believe that we're not likely to see anything really happen until after the election and that this is just one small part of a much broader set of discussions and compromises that again have to be worked out after the election so not a lot new.
We'll go next to Paul Patterson in Glenrock Associates.
Just back to Jonathan's question just to make sure that I understand this.
The $57 million of dispositions is not an adjusted earnings for the most part.
Is that correct? Yes.
I would say roughly a little over half is out of adjusted earnings and a little less than half is in.
Okay.
And then on the tax equity market any thoughts we should have with respect to the tax equity market and the fiscal cliff so to speak for all these sort of tax adjustments that might potentially occur? Just -- could you give us any feeling for what's happening in that market and what the outlook is there? Well there continues to be an active market.
I can't say that the prospect of comprehensive tax reform at least to date has had significant impact on the market although that doesn't mean it couldn't in the future.
So really they're kind of separate questions at the moment.
I think there's a high degree of skepticism about whether comprehensive tax reform really will occur or if so on what timeframe.
And so at least at the moment it hasn't had a real impact on the tax equity market.
Okay.
And then finally the situation in Spain just to sort of put it in perspective.
What is there the total exposure? I mean I don't mean to be cataclysmic or anything.
But when you read what you're hearing coming out of what the situation is in Spain just for investors how much is the total exposure-- if the situation were to get untenable? Just how much exposure do you have in Spain as an investor there? Well our equity commitment to the project is roughly EUR 300 million but the rest has been borrowed on a nonrecourse basis against the project in euros.
So ultimately our equity commitment is of that order of magnitude.
And you can figure out obviously by applying whatever reasonable ROE you want to that what the potential range of earnings impact is.
But that's what we're talking about.
And then no guarantee.
I want to emphasize at least on everything we're hearing to date we don't think the project is fundamentally threatened.
We think the issue is around what are ultimately going to be the returns on the project.
Sure.
I just wanted to get sort of sense as to -- just to put it in perspective.
We'll move next to Jay Dobson at Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but Moray just following up on the Spain question.
If I recall there were some carve-outs in the financing that's sort of handed or pushed a little of this political risk to sort of broadly calling it that to the debt side of the equation.
And I don't remember exactly how it works but if you could remind us how that works.
And then just with your best view I know this is moving around a little bit sort of how that might play into something that didn't as you point out fundamentally sort of eliminate the project but more challenge the economics.
Sure.
I don't want to play amateur lawyer here so I'm going to sort of simplify things pretty significantly.
But the financing is -- protects us against change in tariff risk simply put.
So if there's fundamentally a change in the tariff then the banks share in that risk.
To the extent that what the government ends up talking about or imposing is simply a tax that's kind of consistent with what's already on the books or is an adjustment to an existing tax that would presumably not be a complete change in the tariff.
To the extent that it was extreme you might well argue that it was a change in tariff.
So I think that's what we're talking about.
Again I think the -- realistically we're trying to figure out what level of tax there is going to be and hence what the impact on the returns from the project would be.
And again I would just emphasize that at least our take on the numbers is that the government can solve the problem that they have with the electricity sector tariff deficit through the imposition broadly on the energy sector of taxes that would not have a materially negative impact on ours or many other projects in which people have committed billions of euros.
But to the extent that they want to try and use this as an opportunity to help address the broader fiscal deficit that they're dealing with then that's a different matter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And how much of the EUR 300 million of your equity has been committed to date or actually funded? I think we're -- I mean 75% 80%.
I mean we're well along in construction.
Construction's proceeding very well.
We're on target for delivering those units next year.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Andy Bischof at Morningstar Financial Services.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I do have one follow-up question to the solar development in California that you purchased.
Given an optimistic scenario of if you sign a PPA in 2013 could you put a possible timeframe on when you expect that development to be operational? I'm just trying to get a handle of the CapEx and when you would be spending that amount.
Realistically it wouldn't be before 2016 and it probably could slip beyond 2016 under some scenarios.
And total CapEx would be somewhere in the neighborhood of $800 million to $900 million for one 250-megawatt project.
And in the near term I'd say that the better likelihood for modeling purposes would be one 250-megawatt project.
Certainly we would love to build out that entire 1 000-megawatt facility.
But right now I wouldn't plan on anything other than 250 in the models.
And we'll go to Ashar Khan at Visium Asset Management.
Can I just ask what's happening on the Seabrook? If -- I guess if I read today even just running at 85% when do you expect that to come back to 100%? Yes.
No update on Seabrook.
It continues to run a little bit below full output because of the derate associated with general cooling limits.
It will continue to do so through the next outage which is scheduled for some time in the third quarter.
I think it's September.
So that -- I think we previously discussed the full year impact of that being reflected in the numbers.
There's really been no change.
Okay.
And then Moray can I just ask based on the results year-to-date it seems like you're running at least ahead of -- at least towards the top end of the range.
Is that a fair thing to say that you're running a little bit ahead of I guess where plan would be or to indicating to a top end of the range for the year? No I wish that were the case.
But I think right now we're sort of right in the middle of -- it was very consistent with where we expected to be.
Obviously there's always puts and takes that'll just go one way or another.
But as I say I don't see any reason to change the range for the year and we could end up in a variety of places in that range.
We still feel pretty good about the year.
But I will say that it's a very very tough environment for the Energy Resources folks any asset or piece of the business that's exposed to competitive market.
It's just a tough market environment.
So having to work very hard as I say scratch and claw every penny that they can get from the businesses it's not a great market environment.
But despite that we're doing pretty well.
So we're certainly pleased with where we are at this stage.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'll turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
No thank you for being with us this morning.
We look forward to addressing follow-up questions.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy 2012 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Julie Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Roxane [ph].
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Joining us this morning are Jim Robo President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Eric Silagy President of Florida Power &amp; Light Company.
Moray will provide an overview of our results.
Following which our executive team will be available to answer your questions.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA which are non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Julie.
Good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered solid third quarter results despite challenging market conditions in Energy Resources' major markets and we remain well-positioned to achieve our overall objectives both for this year and for the longer term.
We have previously indicated that our focus this year is on executing against plans that are expected to drive growth for the company across both its principal businesses through the middle of the decade and I'm pleased to be able to report that all our major initiatives continue on track.
At Florida Power &amp; Light we continue to deliver superior value to our customers which is the foundation of our strategy and is demonstrated by providing the lowest typical residential bills in the state combined with superior reliability award-winning customer service and a clean emission profile.
We continue to invest capital at a record rate in major projects that will improve this value proposition over time including our nuclear uprates and fossil modernization initiatives all of which made good progress this quarter.
The rapid growth in our regulatory capital employed combined with a consistent earned ROE enabled by the current rate settlement agreement naturally resulted in strong earnings growth at FPL.
We completed the technical hearing for FPL's base rate case and entered into a proposed settlement agreement with 3 major interveners.
Although this proposed agreement is opposed by the Office of Public Counsel the Florida Public Service Commission has scheduled evidentiary hearings in November and will fully consider it at that time with a decision likely by the end of the year.
At Energy Resources our financial performance was hampered by the continuing impact of the down power at Seabrook and by disappointingly mild market conditions in Texas but in other respects remained solid.
I will provide more detail later in the call.
We continue to make good progress on our record backlog of renewables projects all of which remain on track.
We expect to bring into service more than 1 200 megawatts of new U.S.
wind capacity in the fourth quarter.
Included in this amount is the expected acquisition of 165-megawatt project that is additive to the numbers we have discussed in prior earnings releases.
In addition we disclosed during the quarter that we signed our first PPA for a 2013 U.S.
wind project a project that is not dependent upon extension of the PTC program which as you know is scheduled -- currently scheduled to lapse at the end of this year.
While this additional PPA by itself is not large enough to change the range of our financial expectations we see it as supportive of the view we have publicly expressed that there will continue to be a Wind Development business in the U.S.
post-2012 even if the PTC program is not extended.
Because of the continued progress we have made against our execution objectives there have been no significant changes to our expectations either for this year or for the longer term.
We continue to believe that the major investments we are making at both of our primary businesses will drive our growth in 2013 and beyond and allow us to attain our longer-range expectations.
Our expectations include a satisfactory degree of rate relief at FPL either through approval of the proposed settlement agreement or through a fair and balanced order on the underlying base rate case.
As a reminder we expect adjusted earnings per share for 2012 to be in the range of $4.35 to of $4.65.
And for 2014 we continue to see a range of $5.05 to $5.65 subject to all the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
Let's now walk through our results for the quarter.
We will begin with the results at FPL and then discuss Energy Resources and the  consolidated numbers.
For the third quarter of 2012 FPL reported net income of $392 million or $0.93 per share up $0.10 per share year-over-year.
As in the first half of the year FPL's results this quarter were driven by continued investment in the business to improve overall customer value.
During the quarter we invested roughly $900 million of the approximately $4.3 billion we expect to invest in FPL in 2012.
And regulatory capital employed that is capital on which we are able to earn a return grew 18% over the same quarter last year.
This capital investment program is central to our strategy of delivering the best customer value proposition in the state.
Although the increase in capital requires a degree of base rate relief the life cycle benefits for customers are very significant.
Even with slight upward pressure on rates in the short term we expect our typical residential bills to continue to be the lowest in the state.
And the value delivery to customers improves with each passing year owing to the use of straight line depreciation for rate-making purposes.
During the quarter we amortized approximately $33 million of surplus depreciation enabling us to maintain a regulatory ROE of 11% consistent with the 2010 rate settlement agreement.
For the full year we continue to expect to recognize roughly $500 million of surplus depreciation amortization.
Utilization of approximately $190 million of the remaining surplus in 2013 is built into our rate case filing.
As we said on a number of occasions FPL is in the midst of the largest capital deployment phase in its history.
During the quarter we continued construction of both our Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach modernization projects.
Cape Canaveral is now 86% complete and is currently on schedule and on budget with an expected in-service date in mid-2013.
The Riviera Beach modernization is also moving ahead with 22% of construction complete and it too is running on time and on budget.
Our third modernization project Port Everglades is well into its development cycle and we continue to expect to bring that plant into service in mid-2016.
Execution on our nuclear uprate program at FPL is also well along with final completion anticipated for the spring of next year.
2 of the 4 Florida units have completed their uprate work and are now operational.
During the quarter St.
Lucie Unit 2 received its required license amendment from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to operate at higher power levels and is expected to return to service by the end of the year.
And the fourth unit Turkey Point Unit 4 will begin its uprate in the fourth quarter with completion expected in the spring of 2013.
While the final capital investment will be greater than originally estimated the incremental output will also be greater.
The uprates are now expected to provide at least an additional 526 megawatts of clean emissions-free energy for our customers roughly the equivalent of a medium-sized nuclear plant.
Combined with the improvement in the material condition of the plants this extra capacity will serve our customers well for many years to come.
The gas plant modernizations and nuclear uprates are expected to provide significant benefits to our customers over the lives of the plants and also to provide the platform for earnings growth in the business.
When discussing these projects in an earnings release or in the hearing room it is easy to take for granted the enormous effort required to execute them successfully.
So I'd like to take a moment to recognize the hard work dedication and coordination of thousands of employees and contractors and to thank them for their commitment to excellence in meeting the many project milestones thus far.
We look forward to the final completion of all these projects and to delivering improved value to our customers through lower fuel costs enhanced reliability and cleaner air.
Before moving on to discuss the Florida economy I'd like to note 2 other developments both indicative of our commitment to customer service.
First while Florida has been very fortunate so far this hurricane season we must always be prepared.
In August our service territory was affected by tropical storm Isaac which resulted in heavy rains severe flooding and localized wind damage.
Altogether more than 400 000 customers experienced outages.
But thanks to good preparation and the hard work of employees contractors and our mutual aid partners FPL was able to restore power to nearly 60% of affected customers within 4 hours and more than 95% within 24 hours.
Second and just this month J.D.
Power and Associates released results of the first wave of their Residential Customer Satisfaction survey for 2013.
FPL retained its top ranking in Florida its second-place rank among large segment utilities in the South region and improved its national ranking to 17 from 25 among all 126 U.S.
utilities.
This is a testament to the hard work and customer focus of FPL's 10 000 employees.
In Florida most economic indicators we follow continue to improve modestly.
Tourism taxable sales have grown steadily over the past 2 years and are now well above sales levels seen prior to the recession.
Consumer confidence is trending in a positive direction and the September figure is the highest reported since 2007.
Although Florida has experienced positive year-over-year job growth for more than 2 years there were signs earlier this year that job growth was slowing.
Recent data have been a bit more encouraging with job growth stabilizing in recent months.
Employment gains have been particularly strong in business and professional services health care retail trade and leisure and hospitality.
Job losses in the construction and government sectors continued to limit the overall pace of job creation in Florida.
The unemployment rate mirrors national trends with rates remaining stubbornly high by historical standards.
The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in Florida was down slightly in September to 8.7% which is 1.7% lower than September 2011.
There was also a significant increase in the state's labor force during this period.
Florida's relative position has also improved.
It now ranks 37th in the U.S.
in terms of the unemployment rate with states such as Georgia South Carolina and Connecticut having higher unemployment rates.
All in all while we are not where we would like to be the Florida outlook is clearly improving.
Turning now to the Florida housing market.
Here too we continue to see signs of improvement.
As shown on the accompanying slide although there was a slight uptick in the delinquency rate in the second quarter the inventory of existing homes continues to decline which in turn is helping to spur new construction growth and drive increases in home prices.
In August the number of housing permits in Florida reached its highest level in more than 4 years although it is still well below the prerecession peak.
According to the Case-Shiller Index Florida home prices continue to increase year-over-year with the most recent data showing the largest annual increase since 2006.
On the whole housing indicators are trending in a positive direction and we are encouraged by the data.
Most of our customer metrics at FPL also continued to improve gradually.
During the third quarter we had approximately 30 000 more customers than in the comparable quarter of 2011 representing an increase of 0.7%.
We have now seen fairly consistent growth for the last 10 quarters and we remain encouraged by this trend.
Underlying usage also increased for the fourth consecutive quarter up 1.6% over the same quarter last year.
On the other hand the improvement in inactive and low-usage accounts seems to have stalled.
In September the number of inactive meters decreased but the percentage of low-usage customers remained roughly flat compared to the same period last year.
As you will recall we filed a request for a base rate increase in the first quarter this year.
In mid-August just prior to commencing the technical hearing in the case we reached agreement on all key issues with 3 of the major interveners representing customer groups including Florida Industrial Power Users Group South Florida Hospital &amp; Healthcare Association and Federal Executive Agencies.
A fourth intervener Algenol Biofuels has indicated support for the proposed settlement agreement as well.
However the Office of Public Counsel which by statute is supposed to represent all Florida customers has opposed the settlement.
Major terms of the settlement include a 4-year term; a $378 million retail base revenue increase effective January 2013; an allowed regulatory return on equity of 10.7% with 100 basis point band; Generation Base Rate Adjustments or GBRA upon commercial operations of our Cape Canaveral Riviera Beach and Port Everglades modernizations based on the capital costs for Cape Canaveral as filed in the rate case and the capital cost for Riviera Beach and Port Everglades that were approved during their respective need hearings; and finally flexibility over the 4-year term to amortize up to $400 million of the remaining surplus depreciation credit plus a portion of the fossil dismantlement reserve.
We believe the settlement as a whole is fair to both shareholders and customers.
While we continue to believe our initial base rate request is warranted parties must compromise in order to reach a settlement.
In this case we have given up a portion of allowed return on equity in exchange for longer-term certainty around the investments in our modernization projects and infrastructure that in turn are expected to enable FPL to continue providing low bills and superior performance.
The settlement offers investors the prospect of a reasonable return and a reasonable degree of risk while at the same time providing customers greater certainty around long-term bill affordability.
Since base rates comprise roughly half of the typical residential bill the settlement offers customers confidence that their bills will remain among the lowest in the state for at least the term of the agreement.
In August the Florida Public Service Commission held a technical hearing on the initial base rate request.
We are very comfortable with the totality of the evidence submitted to the commission during these 2 weeks and continue to believe that we have the prospect of a fair and balanced outcome should the commission choose to approve the proposed settlement agreement or instead rule on the merits of the underlying base rate request.
However the commission has laid out a schedule to hear additional evidence specifically related to the proposed settlement agreement and we are now preparing for a hearing on that evidence which is scheduled to take place November 19 through November 21.
A special agenda conference has been scheduled for December 13 to consider the settlement agreement.
As we have noted previously we continue to expect to have the lowest typical residential bill in the state whether the commission rules in favor of the settlement agreement or issues a determination on the fully litigated case.
Under the proposed settlement the increase in FPL's typical residential customer bills in 2013 would be roughly $1.50 a month or $0.05 a day.
We strongly believe this settlement which would help secure low rates for our customers through the end of 2016 while supporting our continued ability to provide safe highly reliable low-cost service is very much in the public interest.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported third quarter 2012 GAAP earnings of $44 million or $0.10 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter were $162 million or $0.38 per share.
Adjusted earnings exclude the effect of the mark on non-qualifying hedges and net other than temporary impairments on certain investments or OTTI and for 2011 the after-tax loss on natural gas-fired generating assets held for sale.
Energy Resources' contribution to adjusted earnings in the third quarter was below last year's by $0.11 but only a few cents below where we had hoped to be primarily due to lower-than-normal wind resource.
On this chart we have shared the drivers of the changes from last year's third quarter in the standard format we commonly use.
However because several of the elements on this chart are interrelated and there are more than the usual number of puts and takes let me try and put the overall results in perspective.
Last year's third quarter benefited from 2 factors that are not present this quarter.
First we had operating contributions from the gas-fired assets that were sold late last year and obviously these are not present this year.
Net of the associated savings and interest this amounts to about $0.05.
Overall the sale is EPS accretive but given the pattern of earnings there is a negative comparison in the third quarter.
Second last year's third quarter included gains on the close-out of some hedges in the gas infrastructure area which amounted to about $0.08.
Since they are an ongoing part of the business these hedge close-outs should not be thought of as onetime gains or they will tend to be lumpy.
If we factor out these 2 effects this year's third quarter would have been up by about $0.02.
This difference in turn is a function of some ups and downs.
You may recall that last year's third quarter was challenged by extreme conditions in Texas.
This year we were much better protected against extreme conditions but the summer turned out to be very mild and flat from a pricing standpoint.
Last year our customer supply and trading activities struggled in a difficult environment.
This year they bounced back albeit to levels still below those of 2009 and 2010.
The net of all these was roughly a positive $0.09.
We also benefited from growth in the business with new assets contributing about $0.05 net of their associated interest.
On the other hand we gave up about $0.04 because of the down power at Seabrook and the refueling outage that began in September and the existing wind portfolio was down $0.02 due to PTC roll-offs.
As I mentioned earlier the wind resource was below normal but it was comparable to last year's third quarter.
All other effects which include slight declines in other operating assets slight increases in O&amp;M and G&amp;A and share dilution amount to a negative $0.06.
Many of these effects we could reasonably anticipate or are typical of the variability in the business.
Relative to our expectations at this time last year the major differences were primarily below-average wind resource as well as the Seabrook down power and disappointingly mild conditions in Texas.
Nevertheless we are satisfied with the financial performance and continue to feel comfortable with the outlook for the full year.
At Energy Resources we continue to focus on executing on our largest ever backlog of renewables projects.
In the third quarter we brought an additional 80 megawatts of U.S.
wind online and year-to-date we have added approximately 250 megawatts of wind to our portfolio.
We expect to bring more than 1 200 megawatts of U.S.
wind projects into service in the fourth quarter this year and are therefore on track to add approximately 1 500 megawatts of U.S.
wind in 2012 including the 165-megawatt project mentioned earlier in this call.
This will be the biggest wind program ever completed in this country in a single year and we'll push our total wind portfolio over the 10 000-megawatt mark.
Looking at growth beyond 2012 the roughly 600 megawatts of Canadian wind projects in our backlog are on schedule to meet their expected timeline for completion through 2015 with the majority expected to come online in 2013 and 2014.
Also as we mentioned earlier in the call we added a new U.S.
wind project to our backlog in 2013 that is not dependent on any extension of production tax credits.
We are moving ahead with our plans to add roughly 900 megawatts of solar generation through 2016.
In July our McCoy solar project received approval from the California Public Utility Commission for its 250-megawatt 20-year PPA with Southern California Edison.
Overall we are pleased with the progress we have made in meeting our execution objectives.
Looking at the company on a consolidated basis.
For the third quarter of 2012 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $415 million or $0.98 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2012 third quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $532 million and $1.26 respectively.
Year-to-date through the third quarter the company's adjusted earnings were approximately $1.5 billion or $3.55 per share compared to approximately $1.4 billion or $3.44 per share for the same period last year.
On an adjusted basis the corporate and other segment was down $0.04 from the same quarter last year primarily due to a $0.03 impairment charge on an early stage technology investment.
Earlier this month the Public Utility Commission of Texas voted on aspects of our Lone Star Transmission project.
While the results were disappointing the impact to the overall project is not material to our corporate outlook.
We remain on track with our construction program and expect to bring the line into full service in the spring of 2013.
In the third quarter we issued a second round of equity units bringing the total to $1.25 billion for the year.
This completes our near-term equity needs based on the projects currently in our backlog and ensures we have the balance sheet strength we need for the immediate future.
We continue to expect to be free cash flow positive in 2014.
As we stated earlier this year we are targeting a 55% dividend payout ratio in 2014 as a consequence of the mix of our portfolio continuing to shift towards more regulated and long-term contracted assets.
This translates into a compound annual growth rate for dividends of approximately 10% using a 2011 base.
In light of the results achieved year-to-date and the progress made against our execution objectives we continue to be comfortable with the 2012 and 2014 adjusted EPS expectations that we shared with you last fall.
As we indicated earlier in the call we expect adjusted EPS in 2012 to be in the range of $4.35 to $4.65.
And for 2014 we continue to see a range of $5.05 to $5.65.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
We recognize that our third quarter results are below where many analysts had projected we would be this quarter.
As you may recall we have often indicated that we do not provide quarterly financial expectations since we believe the timing of earnings may shift throughout the year and our focus should be on achieving our annual objectives.
At this point in the year we are comfortable with our current performance.
To provide some perspective it may be worth noting that year-to-date through the third quarter NextEra Energy has posted adjusted earnings of $3.55 per share.
Achieving the midpoint of our full year earnings expectations implies fourth quarter adjusted earnings growth of just 2.2% above the prior year.
We believe this is reasonably achievable and certainly hope to do better.
At this point in the year we would normally seek to provide you our thoughts on earnings expectations for the year ahead.
However given the schedule of events for FPL's base rate proceeding we are not yet in a position to do so.
We had also indicated that we hoped to be in a position to hold an investor conference late in the year but we think it makes sense to defer this until we have greater clarity around FPL's outlook for next year.
While visibility around FPL's potential financial performance in 2013 will remain limited until a rate case decision is issued we have provided FPL's expected regulatory capital employed for 2013 in the appendix to this presentation.
For the full year we expect average regulatory capital employed to be in the range of $27 million to $28 million.
Separately we can offer a few thoughts about Energy Resources.
The most important observation is that after 2 very challenging years driven by adverse market conditions we expect Energy Resources to return to growth in 2013.
We have previously discussed the headwinds associated with declining power prices and hedge roll-offs.
While there is some continuing effect in 2013 the biggest impact is in 2012.
With the large 2012 U.S.
wind program beginning to have an impact in 2013 we believe the business is well-positioned to pick up again.
In 2013 we expect adjusted earnings at Energy Resources to grow approximately 10% to 15% above 2012 to a range of $740 million to $780 million subject to all the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
As we do each year in the third quarter we have updated our equivalent gross margin hedge slides and included an additional year forward.
The portfolio financial information for 2013 and 2014 can be found in the appendix to the presentation.
For 2013 all projects which are expected to be in service by the end of 2012 have been moved to their respective categories which in this case is predominantly contracted wind.
For the 2014 projects expected to come into service in both 2013 and 2014 are included in the new investments line.
In aggregate our existing asset portfolio is roughly 95% hedged against primary commodity price movements in 2013 and 93% hedged in 2014.
On a comparable basis the equivalent figures for 2015 and 2016 are 88% and 84% respectively.
We are also providing some additional portfolio information on our Investor Relations website in the Quarterly Business Updates section.
For Energy Resources wind assets we have identified each project's tax credit election either PTC or ITC.
And for all Energy Resources' assets we have included the financing structure either project debt or differential membership interest otherwise known as tax equity.
And we hope you find the additional information helpful.
To close let me bring you back to our summary list of critical success factors for 2012.
This list hasn't changed and we continue to be very focused on excellence in execution.
We are pleased with our progress so far in 2012 but recognize that we have more that we need to accomplish before the end of the year.
And with that we will now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> As you look at the evolution of the Texas market there now are essentially 2 different regulatory models that the router [ph] group recently proposed.
As you think about those different constructs could you talk at high level in terms of the impacts to your business over time? Sure let me ask Armando to pick that one up.
Stephen we're going to know a lot more obviously after tomorrow's meeting in Texas which is an important meeting.
I think it's a bit early for us to talk about what the ultimate and potential impacts are of either one.
As a general rule any mechanism that provides both current and future generators with some mechanism to be able to keep their plants open to be economic and to potentially build future plants is a positive not only for the folks in Texas and the Texas market but also for the generators.
So I don't want to speculate on what either plan might do for us.
We have filed comments though with the PUCT.
We certainly do prefer and support the capacity market out in ERCOT.
We think that's the best way to be able to not only support current generators but future generators.
And I don't know whether you've seen on our comments or not but we also believe that the reserve requirement should be a requirement the reserve margin as opposed to something that they just shoot for.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just as follow-up as you look at renewables growth opportunities we've seen some activity there.
Do you see the PTC question of expiration or extension driving that very much? Or could you just talk more broadly about as you see opportunities on the M&amp;A side to acquire assets what's your general take on the ability to grow via M&amp;A? I think there's -- I've made comments before where I've been pretty optimistic about projects that we might be able to pick up on the M&amp;A front and those have -- the reality has not proved to be true.
But we even if that's the case we have picked up at least one asset or so every year for the last couple of years and we've done that again in the third quarter an asset that we hope to close in the fourth quarter.
I will tell you that there is a lot of activity out there.
There's a lot of projects that -- single projects that we're looking at and multiple projects that we're looking at both on the existing projects those in construction and those in development.
A lot of that I think will depend on what happens with the PTC extension at the end of the year and what equity holders believe they've got to sell.
I would be disappointed if at some point during the next 12 to 15 months we don't pick up at least 1 or 2 other significant projects like we just picked up in the third quarter of this year.
On the PTC front and what that means for new development for us obviously there's going to be a big difference in 2013 compared to 2012.
If there is no PTC in 2013 but even if there is a PTC in 2013 there's obviously a significant amount of activity in 2012 that's taking place.
So even with the PTC I think the overall activity will be down.
We're still fairly optimistic that there will be an extension for 1 at least for 1 year and maybe for a couple of years.
We're just going to have to wait and see what happens from now through the end of the year.
But even without a PTC we think there will be some opportunities in certain states to develop wind in 2013.
And as we showed during the quarter when we signed a 100-megawatt PPA there may be a few more of those out there.
Just to add one comment on that.
I do think that there's a little bit of an interaction between the state of the asset acquisition market and the prospects for PTC extension.
So everybody obviously is waiting to see what happens with the PTC extension and that clearly is going to affect different folks thinking about assets that they may hold.
So I think if we get a PTC then you may see -- well you will obviously see us with more greenfield development you may see others too.
If you don't see a PTC extension then I think there will be relatively more activity on the asset M&amp;A front.
We'll take our next question from Daniel Eggers with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> On the utility side I guess just kind of given how wide the parties are between agreeing to the settlement and not agreeing to the settlement should we assume that this is going to have to go through the full hearing process to make a decision on the settlement? Or do you guys have any sense of maybe a deal can get done without having to go through the full process? Well as we said in the prepared remarks we are right now actively getting ourselves ready for live testimony cross-examination on November 19 through 21.
So we are certainly expecting that we will be there and we will have a thorough hearing on the additional aspects that are in the settlement agreement that were not covered in the technical hearing in August for the underlying case.
As we also indicated there's an agenda conference currently scheduled for December 13.
So we would certainly expect to have a resolution on that before the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on usage trends of the utility it looked like there's some nicely positive underlying demand trends kind of popping up better than we've seen recently.
Is there any more color you can kind of share on where that extra usage is coming from as you guys look at what the customers are doing? There's not a lot of additional detail I can give you.
I guess we've had some good news on the usage front for the last several quarters.
We're a little bit reluctant to declare that a trend just in case it might go away on us.
But it's certainly encouraging but not a lot of detail on where it's coming from.
So it's more than you would expect from ongoing underlying usage growth.
So I think there's sort of some recovery factor in there.
But as I said we are back to the old phrase cautiously optimistic that we'll see some underlying usage growth continue.
But probably not at the levels that we've seen the last couple of quarters.
We'll take our next question from Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just Moray a couple of questions on the forward hedging slides.
It looks like the gas infrastructure line moved up meaningfully in '13 '14.
Could you give us a little more color on what's going on in that business? Well fundamentally growth in the business as we continue with seeing additional opportunities and reflecting that in our expectations.
So what we are learning from our existing production activities is encouraging.
So just greater volumes overall is what's driving that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there any reason why you used a September 7 date for these since that was pretty much probably the bottom in the power market? Sheer bad luck that happened to be the date of the roll-up that we based this set of views on.
But you are right that it was an interesting inflection point so we've seen a pretty strong increase in pricing since then.
But that was just coincidence.
This is Jim.
Just 1 comment.
Remember we're pretty well-hedged in '13 and '14 so those -- that volatility is really more relevant for our out-year earnings than it is for the near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question just more to confirm your comments for this year that basically to get to the midpoint of your guidance this year you just need 2.2% up fourth quarter.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that doesn't seem to be a stretch to achieve? No.
I mean if you think about the sort of drivers for Energy Resources we're going to see some growth from new assets and the gas producing activity should grow a little bit.
The existing portfolio should be very roughly flat.
I'm sure there'll be some puts and takes as usual.
We've got a refueling outage coming up at Duane Arnold but that's offset by the fact that we should have a shorter outage at Point Beach because last year we had the big outage for the uprate.
So fundamentally we should see some continued good growth from the new assets and so we feel pretty good about where that is subject to all the usual caveats.
There's a lot of time to go and there's always ups and downs in that business.
Also the fourth quarter there's typically less uncertainty around the variability of just market conditions.
Obviously the third quarter is your big quarter.
It was as I said in the prepared remarks a little disappointing in Texas.
But you usually have greater visibility on the fourth quarter.
And then on the other side of the house it's the same story maintaining a consistent ROE but continuing to invest the capital in the major projects.
And we should see a continued trend of earnings growth there.
So we feel pretty good about that.
And again as I indicated we certainly hope we'll do better than the midpoint of the range.
But I just provided the 2.2% to give some perspective on it.
It doesn't seem that unreasonable.
We'll go next to Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I just wanted to follow-up on Steve's question on the gas business.
I wasn't clear I'm sorry if I'm just a little slow there.
It does seem like a big jump in that infrastructure business and you said it was because of volumes is that right? Could you just help me out a little bit more drill a little bit deeper for me? Yes.
Let me ask you which numbers are you referring to specifically so I'm [indiscernible]? If we look at the EBITDA numbers for -- in the portfolio financial information those hedge numbers if you look at 2013 and 2014 the numbers look like they've substantially increased for EBITDA in the range for the gas infrastructure business and...
Okay that's fine.
You're looking at the comparison 2013 to 2014.
Right and 2013 you're right just from last quarter to this quarter.
Right yes.
Recognize that that's a fairly -- if you think of the difference between gross margin and EBITDA that's a fairly leveraged business.
So there's a certain level of sort of a "fixed cost" but -- organizational infrastructure cost that you need to drive that business but that doesn't scale lineally with the scale of production.
So as your production ramps up you should get some profitability leverage.
And I think that's what you're seeing there.
So you've got a volume growth being leveraged by cost structure because the operating expenses are not growing as rapidly as the underlying gross margin.
And that volume growth is being -- I mean the outlook for that volume growth has increased because of anything in particular? Or just I mean how do we think about that? And I guess is it -- can I go back down or I mean...
I think you should think about this as simply growth in the business more activities more wells producing.
Recognize that these shale gas wells so they have a typical decline curve the shale gas production does.
So a lot of your activity is really driven by your drilling activity ultimately.
So it's a business that you can modulate.
And as we've seen good opportunities we just scaled up the level of activity.
Okay great.
And then just on the production tax credit sort of the mechanics of that maybe getting extended.
There's some talk about the fiscal cliff and how they might just sort of keep -- sort of agree to sort of kick it down the road to be addressed with more of a major tax reform kind of a situation to be developed a few months down the road if you follow me.
And I'm just wondering if that would probably keep the production tax credit where it is or whether or not it would -- and if that were to happen if they were to say simply like "we'll keep things sort of status quo for the next 6 months as we try to iron something out" would that mean the production tax credit would be in effect? And if it were how would that impact you guys or how would you -- or would it be enough time to help you get more projects in.
Do you follow what I'm sort of saying? Yes.
One comment first.
Let me ask Jim to comment also.
I mean obviously any response to that question has to be speculation because how they might resolve "kicking the can down the road" scenario remains to be seen.
But with that caveat Jim you want to...
Yes.
I think 2 things Paul.
One is that when you look at the history of how the PTC has been extended as it's expired historically what happened is that it's been brought up as part of a package.
There's something like 61 or 62 I'm probably getting that number wrong but it's correct in order of magnitude expiring tax credits at the end of this year.
The PTC is obviously one of those.
And historically what's happened is that the lawmakers have simply scratched out the 2012 and written in 2013 in the bill and kicked the can down the road.
I think that there's certainly some odds that that will happen.
I think the important thing to remember about 2013 though and Armando already said it is regardless of whether there is a PTC extension or not 2013 is not going to be a very big wind installation year in the country.
Folks are not going long equipment in order to bet on whether the PTC will get extended.
Suppliers are not building inventory.
And so there is a -- even if the PTC is extended in December it will be very hard for folks to get projects in place in 2013.
So it's going to be not a large year whether the PTC is extended or not.
We'll take our next question from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Real quick just on the utility side I mean obviously whatever rate increase comes out of the rate case would be a tailwind for the business.
But how do you think about cost pressures next year and beyond at FP&amp;L? Well I guess the short-term outlook is not really inconsistent with what we've seen over the last few years i.e.
continued modest pressure on O&amp;M but nothing out of the ordinary.
I guess in the spirit of full disclosure I should point out that under the settlement agreement with a fixed term our exposure our income exposure to unexpected increases in inflation or interest rates obviously is higher.
So that's an aspect of the overall agreement.
So right now we don't see anything on the horizon that's causing us great concern.
Just continued slow pressure on nominal O&amp;M offset by our normal continued incremental productivity from year-to-year.
Research Division</strong> I guess when you think about O&amp;M at the utility do you think about -- I mean is your goal -- is your normal trend kind of inflationary plus whatever the cost of any new assets that you bring online in a given year has it been higher than inflationary? And if so what are the drivers? Kind of what do you think the biggest puts and takes could be? Well for the last few years the net O&amp;M growth has been slightly positive in real terms but that's really been driven by a couple of major things benefits and insurance costs.
If you factor those out everything else has been going down maybe a percentage point a year in real terms.
So we've -- over the last decade we've gone from a period where we were still able to drive costs out in nominal terms to a period where we were driving them out in real terms but were kind of flat-to-rising nominal.
For the last few years it's been slightly up in real terms but as I say primarily due to the benefits and insurance.
Insurance is obviously kind of a cyclical phenomena.
I don't see that continuing at the same pace for future years.
Research Division</strong> Okay and last item.
Just pension and OPEB as you're kind of getting closer to the year end of 2012 how do you think about that in terms of cost pressures for beyond 2012? There is an impact in 2013 from the pension.
You've got the effect of losses sustained during the down period a few years back that rolled through.
It's not huge.
The OPEB is a minor factor.
We'll take our next question from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So the vast majority of my questions have been answered.
I just wanted to ask you to dig down a little bit more into Texas in the quarter.
There were a lot of puts and takes at Energy Resources one of them was $0.09 favorable from less extreme weather better supply and trading in Texas.
But you also indicated that that wasn't as much of a rebound as you had otherwise hoped for given that the weather kind of flip-flopped the other way and was maybe more mild than people had hoped.
Can you dive a little bit more in the components of that $0.09 and then sort of going into next year and beyond sort of are you more or less at a stable platform? Or are there other adjustments we should expect to get back to sort of what you think a stable margin is in Texas? Yes.
Let me make a couple of general comments and then ask Armando also to add his thoughts.
A couple of different things going on.
Recall that last year's third quarter really was some pretty extreme conditions in Texas.
And as we indicated back then the good performance that we had on our gas-fired assets was more than accounted for by weakness in the Retail business and the fact that wind happened not to blow during the worst of the spiking prices.
So all of that in a sense reversed itself.
And we got back to kind of a normal situation from that perspective.
But relative to a typical summer year we just didn't see the number of days of strong prices.
I'm not talking about the 1000-plus megawatt hour periods but just regular strong days.
So for example there were -- in the entire quarter I believe there were only 3 days where the average price in ERCOT was above $100 a megawatt hour even in what we call the needle peak of 2:00 to 6:00 hours.
So it was just a very flat pricing environment.
And so that is below what we would normally expect of a typical summer.
In a typical summer you're going to get more short-term periods of volatility than that.
So it's sort of -- it came back from the extreme but it didn't come back to what you would typically think off as a normal level.
So with that -- those general comments let me see if Armando wants to add anything.
Yes Greg the only thing I'll add is we set ourselves up for the ERCOT summer this year to be long and to take advantage of what we believe would be decent market prices.
That didn't happen.
We're now trying to figure out what to do for 2013 and 2014 but it's very likely that we're going to be in a very similar position in Texas.
And that is hoping that our assets take advantage of higher prices during the summer.
If that does not happen then you are obviously going to give up some of the upside that you would have otherwise been able to get because you're going to leave some assets open hoping for those prices.
And when they don't come in you're going to get lower margins.
I think most of -- if I remember correctly there were a lot of days in ERCOT this year where real-time prices cleared with a three handle.
And that not a 300-handle that was a 30-handle which is certainly not what we were expecting.
And one of the consequences is that there are fewer opportunities available for what we call our asset optimization activity.
So I feel very good about the way we structured the portfolio to protect against the extreme conditions and the balance that we struck there.
So that was fine.
But if you don't have just the regular short-term periods of volatility there's less you can do with the assets.
And I don't know roughly  to scale it maybe with all of that -- if it had been a more normal summer we will have like $0.04 or $0.05 perhaps probably more of income from the Texas segment.
I don't know if that helps you.
Research Division</strong> No that helps a lot.
So it sounds like you'd be positioned next summer very similarly to the way you were positioned this summer.
So if you have a mild summer again next year we wouldn't see a big pullback in profitability on the put side.
If we saw a tight summer you'd have some upside? I think that's fair very fair.
We'll go next to Michael Worms with BMO Capital Markets.
With regard to all of the equity units done this year will there be any need for equity in 2013? Not based on the backlog-only scenario the capital plans that we have today.
Obviously to the extent that we are successful in adding significantly to the capital profile going forward we have to make sure that we have the balance sheet strength to support that.
But based on what we see today which is of course the capital program that supports the earnings expectations out through 2014 we're in good shape on the equity front the balance sheet.
Great.
And one other question if I can follow up.
Can you give us an update of what's going on in Spain with your project? Sure.
Let me ask Armando.
He's much closer to that than I am.
In Spain over the last 6 weeks or so there's been a proposed regulation/law that would really affect all of the energy providers in Spain not just the project that we're interested in obviously which is a CSP solar project that we hope to get half of it in operations in the first quarter of '13 and the second half no later than the third quarter of '13.
The 2 pieces of the legislation that affect us are 6% essentially revenue tax and that really affects all energy providers in Spain.
The second piece is a reduction in the amount of natural gas that we would be able to burn at the plant which is really one of the key items that helped us with the investment decision and help others with their investment decisions over in Spain when they were dealing with solar thermal plants.
But a reduction in the amount of gas that could be used a pretty significant reduction.
If you look at both of those and if you assume for a second that there are no changes to that legislation before it becomes final later this year or earlier this year that's a reduction in our expectations of -- I mean it's a significant reduction for the project of roughly $0.03 to $0.04 on an EPS basis which is not that significant obviously to the overall corporation.
But we continue to be very aggressive in what we do in Spain on both the political and regulatory front and we're certainly hoping that there is a better outcome.
But if there is not a better outcome that's essentially the effect that we would see going forward.
We'll go next to Jay Dobson with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Armando continuing on Spain I remember the project financing there left the lenders with some exposure.
I assume the 6% revenue tax and the limit on natural gas would not trigger that.
So essentially all of those changes would be for next year's account? That's correct.
The best way to think about it these projects -- we were very well-protected and certainly love the financing that we did but we are very close now to COD on these projects.
So the net result if all of this the proposed law gets to final it might be that we have to put a little bit more equity into the project.
And by a little bit I do mean a little bit.
Maybe in the neighborhood of $40 million to $50 million or so certainly not significant.
But the reality is that we will likely with this proposed law finish our projects own the projects and very likely get to the perm part of that mini perm loan sometime later next year or early 2014.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And so simply just realizing lower profitability than you might have expected otherwise? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Moray I was hoping to go back to Texas just briefly and follow-up on the earlier question.
When you look at the results from 2011 third quarter I think you spent the better part of a couple of months evaluating your policies there.
And then sometime in the fourth quarter suggested you were changing them to go into the third quarter of '12 much longer.
As a result of what you experienced in the third quarter would you anticipate any changes in the policy? Or pursuant to the question you answered earlier is there's simply no change and we should anticipate you would go into the third quarter of '13 with the same policy again being sort of longer than you might otherwise have been in '11.
Yes.
Let me try to explain that.
There were a couple of things that really changed coming out of -- lessons learned from last year.
One was really I'll say strictly internal coordination and we've now got a I think a much tighter approach to the tactical management of the aggregate position in Texas on a weekly and daily basis.
So that's been a good thing that's worked very well for us this year.
The second thing that we did was that we shifted the mix a little bit more.
We left a little more open on the gas plants and protected ourselves against some extreme conditions.
So on that side what you might call the policy side obviously we will review that as we prepare for the next summer season then tweak it I'm sure somewhat.
But that basic structure I think served well.
And so that's not the reason that we were a little disappointed in the outcome in Texas.
So that structurally did what it was intended to do.
The reason we were a little disappointed in the outcome is simply that there wasn't enough volatility and pricing movement to get what we would normally have expected primarily out of the gas assets.
So from a policies perspective we'll revise and tweak but won't fundamentally change it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's really helpful.
And then can you remind us the revised cost of the nuclear uprates at P&amp;L? About 3.1 is where we are right now.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And that's reflective of the revised megawatts you referenced in your prepared comments.
That's correct.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude today's conference.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Julie Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Leslie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
With me this morning are Jim Robo President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Eric Silagy President of Florida Power &amp; Light Company.
Moray will provide an overview of our results following which our executive team will be available to answer your questions.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA which are non-GAAP measures -- financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Julie and good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered strong results during the first quarter of 2013 and both Florida Power &amp; Light and Energy Resources are executing well on the objectives we've discussed with you last quarter and during our investor conference.
At FPL we maintained a regulatory ROE of 11% while we continued to invest heavily in the business in ways that enhance what we believe is already the best customer value proposition in the state.
Average regulatory capital employed grew roughly 14% over the same quarter last year and was the main driver of our net income growth of about 20%.
I am pleased to report that 3 of FPL's major capital projects are now complete.
The successful repowering of Turkey Point Unit 4 earlier this month marked the completion of our extended nuclear power uprate program.
We also finished installing 4.5 million smart meters across our service territory to serve our customers better.
Finally our first modernization project at Cape Canaveral entered service last week more than a month earlier than originally expected.
And our Riviera Beach and Port Everglades modernizations remain on track.
At Energy Resources adjusted earnings were down slightly compared to the prior year comparable quarter primarily from lower wind generation.
This quarter's adjusted results excludes 3 unusual items: the gain on the sale of our Maine hydro assets a charge associated with our decision to sell our merchant fossil assets in Maine and charges associated with an impairment on our Spain solar project.
I will discuss each of these items in more detail later in the call.
Our renewables backlog remains on track and we continue to make good progress on our incremental growth opportunities.
Since our investor conference in March we signed long-term power purchase agreements for an incremental 150 megawatts of new U.S.
wind projects and 40 megawatts of new solar projects.
On the transmission front we successfully energized our Lone Star Transmission line in Texas on time and under budget.
We continue to pursue a number of other transmission opportunities in North America as we discussed at our investor conference in March.
Looking beyond this quarter we are focused on driving long-term growth across our primary businesses that is profitable and creates value.
Central to this is a continued search for ways to improve our productivity and relative cost position sustainably.
As we mentioned during our recent investor conference we have initiated a comprehensive company-wide internal review to identify opportunities to continue to improve our businesses through revenue enhancement and O&amp;M savings.
Even though our overall relative cost position is excellent we believe we have room for further improvement.
We are fairly early in our review process but we are pleased with our progress and we will provide updates on this initiative throughout the year.
I want to take a brief moment to elaborate on the growth plan we laid out for you at our conference.
If we simply complete the projects that were in our backlog in March which are outlined on the left side of the accompanying slide we believe we can grow adjusted EPS at a compound annual growth rate of roughly 5% through 2016 off a 2012 base.
At FPL this includes successfully bringing our remaining 2 modernization projects online on time and on budget.
It also includes our completed nuclear uprate program which I mentioned in my opening remarks.
At Energy Resources it includes 175 megawatts of U.S.
wind expected to enter service in 2013 roughly 600 megawatts of Canadian wind to enter service through 2015 and approximately 900 megawatts of solar to enter service through 2016.
Also included in our March backlog is our Lonestar Transmission project in Texas which as I noted earlier is now fully operational.
We must stay focused on completing the remaining projects in our backlog while we pursue and execute on new incremental opportunities across our core businesses.
Our ability to grow beyond 5% through 2016 will depend in large part on how successful we are in identifying and implementing productivity improvements and on how successful we are in developing new capital deployment opportunities.
The internal review I mentioned earlier began this month and we are working hard to identify opportunities to improve our businesses through O&amp;M savings.
At FPL every dollar we can extract in productivity and O&amp;M savings creates headroom to allow us to invest incremental capital in the business without driving up customer bills.
We have already identified $75 million in potential savings through a number of initiatives and we fully expect to find more.
We have also identified $4 billion to $5 billion of incremental capital deployment opportunities at FPL that appear to have strong customer benefits although more analysis is required before we are ready to commit to all of them.
One of these opportunities is accelerated storm hardening that will build on the program we started some time ago to improve our systems' resiliency and reliability.
We will be filing updated plans for this additional infrastructure investment with Florida PSC tomorrow.
While some of the potential incremental investments will be recovered through clauses or on an AFUDC return others such as storm hardening will be absorbed through productivity improvements and the O&amp;M savings we are able to generate.
We have set a stretch goal for ourselves to keep base O&amp;M roughly flat in nominal terms through 2016 at Florida Power &amp; Light.
Additional growth at Energy Resources beyond our March backlog will come from new wind and solar projects.
As I noted earlier since the March investor conference we have signed PPAs for an additional 150 megawatts of new U.S.
wind and 40 megawatts of new U.S.
solar projects.
We have a strong pipeline of additional projects and continue to expect to develop between 500 megawatts and 1 500 megawatts of new contracted U.S.
wind and up to 300 megawatts of new contracted solar projects over the next 4 years equating to an incremental capital investment of somewhere between $1 billion and $4 billion.
Based on the opportunities we see over the next 4 years at both FPL and Energy Resources we continue to expect that our portfolio mix and earnings profile will shift towards a more regulated and long-term contracted business.
Maintaining a balanced portfolio is important for our risk profile and our credit position.
In 2016 we expect adjusted EBITDA from our regulated and long-term contracted operations to reach roughly 84% of the total.
Let me now walk through our results for the first quarter of 2013.
We will begin with results at FPL before moving on to Energy Resources and then the consolidated numbers.
For the first quarter of 2013 FPL reported net income of $288 million or $0.68 per share up $0.10 per share year-over-year.
The regulatory return on equity during the quarter remained unchanged at 11%.
However the quality of earnings improved as cash recovery associated with the base rate increase reduced the utilization of reserve amortization as compared to the same quarter last year.
We invested roughly $700 million in the quarter and expect to invest approximately $2.8 billion for the full year.
Regulatory capital employed growth of roughly 14% over same quarter last year was the main driver of growth in net income of approximately 20%.
The remaining difference was a function of a number of smaller items including improvement in the non-retail portion of the business.
We would expect to see our growth in net income generally track our growth in regulatory capital deployed though there may be differences on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Weather during the quarter was both mild and unusual in nature.
The number of heating degree days in January and February was well below normal.
And in March we experienced an abnormally low number of cooling degree days.
We estimate that for the quarter base revenues were roughly $40 million less than we expected primarily as a result of the weather.
We utilized $137 million of surplus depreciation during the quarter and we remain comfortable that we can achieve our financial expectations this year and still retain sufficient reserve amortization for future years.
Looking back over the past 2 years we have utilized a larger proportion of surplus depreciation in the first half of the year and we do not expect this year to be any different.
As many of you recall we have been expecting 2013 to require the utilization of more surplus than in subsequent years and this remains true.
2014 and later years will benefit from the growth of our existing wholesale contracts and thus require less reserve amortization to meet our targeted regulatory ROE.
All of our major initiatives that we laid out for you in prior quarters remain on track.
Turkey Point Unit 4 nuclear uprate I mentioned earlier completes the extended power uprate program at FPL.
Today the plant is running at approximately 50% and when it ramps up to full power in a few more weeks our uprate program will have added a total of more than 500 megawatts of emissions-free generation to our fleet.
I also noted earlier that our Cape Canaveral modernization project is now operational after entering service more than a month ahead of schedule.
The project also came in under budget and we are very pleased by the success of our development and construction effort.
The 1 210 megawatts of highly efficient combined-cycle gas generation from the plant will save customers money on fuel reduce air emissions and start to provide shareholders with a cash return on their substantial investment.
Construction continues at our Riviera Beach plant modernization which is now 53% complete and the project remains on budget and on schedule to enter service in June 2014.
We are also moving ahead with the Port Everglades modernization project with demolition of the current plant scheduled for July of this year and construction set to begin next spring.
Our Port Everglades plant is expected to enter service in June 2016.
All in all our 3 modernization projects will add approximately 3 700 megawatts of efficient clean combined-cycle generation to our fleet and are expected to provide roughly 1.2 billion in customer benefits over the lives of the plants.
Other developments at FPL during the quarter include progress on our proposed acquisition of the Vero Beach municipal electric utility system.
On March 12 of this year residents voted in favor of the transition and we expect the transaction to close in 2014.
On our pipeline project we received a number of bids in response to the RFP and we are in the process of evaluating them now.
We expect to make a decision sometime in July and hope to have additional information to provide by our second quarter earnings release.
The Florida economy continues to improve slowly.
Florida's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in March dropped 1.4 percentage points from the prior year to 7.5% outpacing the improvement in the national unemployment rate of only 0.6% over the same period.
This is the first time since January 2008 that the Florida unemployment rate is lower than the national rate.
We are seeing the improving employment picture reflected in retail activity which has increased markedly since the trough in mid-2009 and is now above prerecession levels.
At the same time Florida consumer confidence is well above the low points reached in recent years and seems to be reasonably stable even after federal budget sequestration and the expiration of the payroll tax holiday.
The Florida housing market also continues to recover.
The backlog of homes in foreclosure is gradually declining and Florida has improved from having the second highest mortgage delinquency rates in the country to having the ninth highest rates.
The Case-Shiller seasonally adjusted index for South Florida home prices continues to increase at a double-digit pace and is now at the highest level since early 2009.
Florida building permits a leading indicator of residential new service accounts nearly doubled on an annual basis and remained the second highest in the nation.
These generally encouraging developments are reflected in the internal indicators that we follow at FPL.
During the first quarter we had approximately 33 000 more customers than in the comparable quarter in 2012 representing an increase of 0.7%.
This growth rate has been fairly consistent for the last 12 quarters.
Total retail sales declined 3.5% as January and February were unusually mild while March was much cooler than normal.
Comparisons with last year are also affected by the leap year impact.
Underlying usage was roughly flat for the quarter.
The number of inactive meters declined to the lowest number that we have seen in 5 years and it is now approaching its long-term average.
On the other hand the improvement in low usage accounts seems to have stalled.
It may be that partially occupied premises have increased more or less permanently due to an increase in investor-owned and internationally owned properties.
New service accounts are on track for the strongest year since 2009 and we continue to see growth in our industrial accounts which as a reminder are primarily tied to the construction industry in our service territory.
We remain encouraged by these overall positive data.
Let me turn now to Energy Resources which reported first quarter 2013 GAAP earnings of negative $40 million or negative $0.09 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter were $177 million or $0.42 per share.
Adjusted earnings exclude the effect of the mark on non-qualifying hedges and net other than temporary impairments on certain investments or OTTI.
In addition we have excluded 3 other items from adjusted earnings this quarter.
These are the gain on the sale of our Maine hydro assets a charge associated with the decision to sell our merchant fossil assets in Maine and charges associated with an impairment on our Spain solar project.
I'll provide more details on these items in just a moment.
Energy Resources' adjusted EPS contribution was slightly negative compared to the same quarter of last year decreasing $0.02.
The primary drivers for the quarter were lower wind generation of $0.06 and PTC roll-off of $0.01 partially offset by the absence of the Seabrook derate we experienced in 2012 of $0.02.
Our customer supply and trading businesses contributed a positive $0.04 due to favorable market conditions.
New wind and solar investments increased $0.03 over the prior year comparable quarter.
Contributions from gas infrastructure declined $0.03 as last year's comparable quarter included a gain associated with hedge closeouts.
All other effects were minor as reflected on the accompanying slide.
For the full year we expect to elect CITCs on roughly 300 megawatts for our Mountain View Solar project and portions of Genesis and Desert Sunlight solar projects that are expected to enter service in 2013.
This equates to roughly $80 million in adjusted earnings up from $53 million in 2012 on 457 megawatts of wind projects.
While there are fewer megawatts of CITC elections in 2013 the capital costs for solar are higher than capital costs for wind which results in an increase in earnings for the year-over-year comparison.
As I mentioned we have excluded 3 items from adjusted earnings this quarter due to their unusual nature in order to make period-to-period comparisons more meaningful.
However it is important to understand their impact.
The sale of the Maine hydro assets closed during the quarter.
And as we previously indicated the transaction resulted in a significant GAAP gain of $216 million.
The sale had a small positive cash impact.
Based on changes we have made to our merchant portfolio in the Northeast and our commitment to continuously evaluate the role of all our assets we have concluded that our Maine fossil assets no longer strategically make sense for the business.
We have therefore made the decision to sell our 796 megawatts of merchant oil-fired assets in Maine.
Based on the estimated fair value we have recognized a charge of $41 million with no current cash impact.
Our Spain project is nearing completion.
However the project is facing financial challenges as a result of recent tariff changes that fundamentally impact the project's economics.
After extensive analysis in accordance with accounting rules we concluded that the value of our assets should be written down by $300 million.
After accounting for certain income tax valuation allowances which have no impact on cash the total after-tax impact to GAAP net income is $342 million.
However the economic effect is as we have previously discussed and we continue to believe that our economic exposure is limited to our equity commitment of somewhat less than $300 million.
As a reminder we have removed from our financial expectations all contributions to operating earnings and cash flow from this project.
We continue to make good progress in developing our backlog of renewables projects.
Our solar and Canadian wind programs are on track to meet their respective commitments of roughly 600 megawatts of contracted wind capacity in Canada through 2015 and roughly 900 megawatts of contracted solar capacity through 2016.
As I mentioned earlier we are pleased that our 2013 to 2014 wind program is on track with 325 megawatts of projects with signed long-term PPAs.
With the economics of wind improving as a result of better turbine technology and lower turbine prices wind PPA contracts are very attractively priced.
As a result buyers are clearly interested in taking advantage of these prices and the production tax credit extension.
Recently the IRS clarified the start of construction language necessary to qualify for the PTC.
A facility qualifies if significant physical work begins at the site or certain Safe Harbor provisions are met.
We view this language as positive.
Our solar development pipeline remains on track with the potential to build up to 300 megawatts of incremental projects in addition to the March backlog.
As I indicated earlier we recently secured 2 20-megawatt PPAs and are actively working on additional opportunities in our pipeline.
We are pleased with our progress in our development pipeline and remain comfortable with the ranges we have discussed.
As a reminder we indicated in March that we have the potential to deploy $1 billion to $3 billion in incremental capital and add between 500 and 1 500 megawatts of U.S.
wind capacity in 2013 and 2014 and we see opportunities for a further up to $1 billion of incremental capital investment to support our target of up to 300 megawatts of new solar projects through to 2016.
We will update you each quarter on our progress as we secure PPAs and continue to work our development pipeline.
Looking at the company on a consolidated basis.
For the first quarter of 2013 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $272 million or $0.64 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2013 first quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $475 million and $1.12 respectively.
Adjusted earnings from the corporate and other segment were up $0.02 compared to the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to consolidating income tax adjustments in our Lone Star Transmission project.
As we noted last quarter we expect the full year contributions to earnings from this segment to improve slightly relative to 2012.
On our last earnings call we laid out for you a list of critical success factors for 2013.
These remain a priority for us.
At FPL we'll continue to strive to deliver the best value in the state to our customers.
The FPL team had a great year in 2012 and we will focus on ways to make our customer value proposition even better.
We will continue to develop the Riviera Beach and Port Everglades modernization projects with a focus on coming in on time and on budget.
And finally we've made a good start in our effort to identify additional ways to improve productivity so we can invest capital in projects that will continue to improve the value we deliver to our customers.
At Energy Resources we must maintain our focus on excellence in day-to-day operations.
We must continue the successful development of our Canadian wind and our solar portfolios and we will continue working hard to develop a strong portfolio of profitable contracted solar projects along with our 2013 2014 U.S.
wind program.
We expect to finance any incremental investment in a way that supports our targeted credit metrics.
And finally in our transmission business our focus will be on successfully operating our newly commissioned Lone Star Transmission project and looking for additional transmission opportunities in North America.
Based on what we see at this time we continue to expect adjusted earnings per share for 2013 to be in the range of $4.70 to $5 and we see nothing that would change the ranges of earnings expectations we provided you in March for 2014 through 2016.
We continue to see adjusted EPS growth at a compound annual growth rate of 5% to 7% through 2016 off a 2012 base.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
And with that we will now open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Dan Eggers with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just turning to the wind conversation a little bit with the range now out there of 500 to 1 500 for the next 2 years.
Is that 1 500 megawatt the top end number is that a reflection of kind of the logistical limitations of you guys building that much wind in a short amount of time? Or do you think there's the ability at some point to maybe surpass that given the compelling economics of wind with the tax credit still sitting out there? Well Dan I would say that the whole range is based on our total assessment of what's realistic over this period including both the customer dimension and the supply-chain dimension.
So while I would never say never I think that based on what we see today 1 500 is a good upper end for the U.S.
wind program.
Research Division</strong> And then have you thought about kind of the way the IRS interpretation? I mean it looks like there's maybe some ability to even go beyond 2014 from a development perspective.
Do you guys see a window where this could expand into 2015? I think that right answer to that is just to say that we are very focused on our 2013-2014 program.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on solar obviously you guys kind of rescaled on the Blythe project which was expected.
But when do you think we could start to see movement on some PPAs being announced on the solar front? Is that a 2013 announcement prospect? And what should we be watching maybe to see some of these projects move forward? I guess I would just divide the solar pipeline into the 2 parts.
I think obviously with just announcing 2 small projects here I think there could be several more of those.
We've previously noted that there's probably not more than one more large scale project to come that could -- would -- certainly we could have success on that in this year or not.
So I mean it's a little difficult to say exactly when it's going to happen.
Armando do you want -- do you have any other comments? Armando is shaking his head so that's all we've got.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just the last one.
Again I guess it looks like we had a light performance from a wind utilization perspective.
A how far off were you guys versus normal? Because I didn't see it in the slides.
And then b is there a time when we need to reevaluate kind of the growth rate or base line expectations given the fact that there seems to be a fairly regular underperformance from wind relative to the model? Well I guess there's 2 parts to the answer to that question.
First on the wind resource just numerically in the first quarter we're about 97%.
It's quite clear looking at the data over the last few years that the wind resource available to the portfolio in aggregate has been on average below the longer-term averages.
So I don't think there's any question about that.
The second part of the answer however is that we are right in the midst of essentially recalibrating all our wind models.
And the reason that I pulled the wind resource slide from the release this time is that we -- while we have a new set of numbers they are not directly comparable to the ones that we have been presenting.
So I was a little concerned that people would compare one with the other and come to misleading conclusions.
So we will be putting those back out once we have a better basis for comparisons on that.
So we are doing some recalibration.
But I would just estimate -- underline that the wind resource like any other sort of climate-related variable can go through quite significant cycles.
So we can have several years in a row where you are below average and that is statistically perfectly normal.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Moray I had to jump off for a second.
But did you say that you expect near [ph] to be slightly improved versus '12? I think you may have been picking up the reference to corporate and other.
As we've previously said for '13 we expect it to be a little bit up over 2012.
We certainly expect Energy Resources to be up as well in '13.
Research Division</strong> And I think you filed with Florida that you expected to earn 11.25%.
Is that still reasonable? The forecasted surveillance report for the remainder of the year is -- comes in at about 11.25%.
So yes that's roughly what we're thinking at the moment based on what we see.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly have you initiated discussions in Spain? And what's the outlook for resolution here aside from walking away? I think as a practical matter it's going to take some time to resolve the situation.
We are in active discussion with our bank group.
But for commercial reasons I don't think it would be appropriate for me to say more.
Research Division</strong> And I guess from our current position the way you've characterized Spain there's nothing but upside from here.
Is that fair? I can't absolutely say that there's nothing but upside.
But as I said in the prepared remarks we continue to believe that our exposure is limited to the equity contribution which is roughly $270 million based on today's exchange rate.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fleishman.
Just a couple questions.
The 2013 '14 EBITDAs were down about $100 million to $140 million in -- for Resources.
Is that mainly just taking Spain out? Or is there any other changes in there? There's a few minor changes but by far the biggest change was removing Spain.
Okay.
And then you mentioned the good kind of market conditions for the supply trading.
Could you give us maybe a little more color on that? Which business within that benefited? It was really spread all across the board.
The full requirements piece of it was roughly half the $0.04.
And even within that it was a variety of different deals.
As I recall it was mostly concentrated in the PJM deals more than NEPOOL.
But most everything was a little bit better.
And then a little bit in just the regular general marketing and trading.
So nothing specific that you can really point to but each element of that portfolio did a little bit better than we expected.
And then retail was fine? Retail was -- yes.
Flat where we expected it to be.
Okay.
One other question just the -- there's I guess the proposed legislation on renewable MLP has been -- has come back out again.
Could you just give us your latest thoughts on that proposal? What are the good things bad things and how that ties into whether we can get another PTC extension? Sure.
Let me ask Jim to comment on that one.
So Steve I think the important thing to understand about the MLP proposal with -- of adding renewables to be able to be MLP-able if you will is that it's not really a replacement for the PTC.
And that's because this bill doesn't fix the -- doesn't address the passive loss limitations that exist as a result of the 1986 tax changes.
And so new wind projects have significant losses that would not be allocable to the investors.
And so it's a terrific vehicle for old wind assets coming off of a 10-year -- coming off of their 10-year PTC window and that's terrific.
And we think as the largest owner of those kind of assets that it would be helpful to us if it passed.
But it is not a replacement for the PTC is the bottom line and would not really impact new builds as a result of that.
We'll take our next question from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the utility you mentioned the storm hardening program and that you would make a filing tomorrow.
But that -- and I wanted to make sure I understood this that you wouldn't be seeking full recovery via a rider.
Could you just give a little more granularity about what's recovered via rider? What you would kind of utilize AFUDC earnings to capture for the next few years.
And then when would you put this into cash rates? Sure.
Let me try and see if I can take those.
First of all we have a requirement for an annual filing with the commission on our storm hardening plans and that is I believe this week.
We will be indicate -- based on the work that we've done to date we can see very significant benefits from the hardening activities that we've already undertaken.
And so we would like if we can to accelerate our rate of progress on that and we believe that we will be able to do that and that will be the effect of the filing tomorrow.
For recovery purposes given the fixed rate agreement the -- that has to be absorbed within the fixed rates that we can see out through 2016.
In terms of ultimate cash recovery it would be then obviously part of the rate base that would go into whatever we end up doing for 2017.
Let's say hypothetically we had a rate case in 2017 it would be in the rate base on which the revenue requirement would be assessed.
Broadly speaking what we typically call our base infrastructure-type investments so that's the basic investment that we have to do in the transmission/distribution infrastructure.
All the sort of basic outside of major generation projects would typically have to be absorbed within the fixed rate agreement that we have in place.
If there are specific large projects that are approved by the commission within this period they would become eligible for AFUDC so you would have an earnings impact but a noncash impact potentially within this period but we'd have to wait for cash recovery beyond.
So the projects that clearly get cash recovery through increases in rates in the period of the rate agreement are the 3 modernization projects.
Then there are some projects that might be recovered through clauses.
So if there were a capital investment that was associated with environmental upgrades that were authorized for recovery through the environmental clause for example those would get cash recovery through that mechanism.
So there's a whole variety of things.
But I think the bottom line way to think about this is the reason that we are so very focused on productivity is that the more progress we can make on the productivity side not only do we make the business better in and of itself but we also create what I call the headroom to enable us to do additional capital activities that are good for customer and will provide long-term value creation potential for the shareholder.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One other piece just on O&amp;M at the utility.
Year-over-year O&amp;M was down a good bit.
Just I didn't know if there were onetimey items -- onetimer items in the 2012 quarter? Or just could you give a little detail there? Yes.
As always with O&amp;M there are some significant variations from quarter-to-quarter.
So some of that effect is timing.
But some of it is related to planned outages which vary from year to year.
But having said that as I said before we are very focused on the broader O&amp;M picture.
We have this company-wide initiative underway and we feel pretty good about where we are on that long-term stretch goal of keeping O&amp;M flat in nominal terms over the period of the rate agreement.
We'll take our next question from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But I wanted to follow up on one question from Dan on this April 15 IRS -- I guess I'm not sure what the official term is but the IRS letter or whatever in terms of the PTCs and the ITCs.
I know you guys are focused on this year and next but could you just give us a little bit of flavor as to your reading of the IRS language and what that might mean for the industry in terms of 2015 in terms of new wind potential for the industry? Frankly we haven't focused much thought or time on what the implication is for 2015.
I think -- at least the way we see it we have a great window of opportunity to build another portfolio of U.S.
wind in 2013 and 2014.
And the sooner that we can get projects underway the sooner we can get them completed deliver benefits to our customers and value to our shareholders.
So we really at this stage haven't been focused on 2015.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have also been asked and answered but one on just customer load growth.
In the first quarter it looks like the change in underlying usage was basically flat.
And last year I think it was up a little over 1%.
And in your Analyst Day you had laid out some expectations there.
Can you talk a little bit more about the drivers for the first quarter how you look at that versus your expectations? We don't attach a great deal of significance to any one quarter's change in the underlying usage per customer.
Last year we were I think pleasantly surprised.
We had several quarters where we thought it was higher than sustainable.
So this one is kind of a little bit lower than we would expect for the medium-term outlook.
But I can't put my finger on any particular drivers in there.
It does fluctuate a fair amount from quarter-to-quarter.
So going forward I still think we're going to see small positive increases in average usage per customer over the next few years.
But in any quarter we could be up by a 1% or flat to slightly down as we were this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay because -- so it sounds like within customer classes different class so you didn't see any one class that really stuck out to you as being different than expectations.
No nothing that's not within the normal bands of noise for these data series.
We'll take our next question from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple things.
In the projection that you'll earn the -- around 11.25% ROE on a regulatory basis for the year does that projection take into account the expectation that you will in fact achieve 0 base O&amp;M growth for the fiscal year? I think the short answer is yes.
It certainly reflects our current expectation on O&amp;M for the year.
I'm having trouble recalling exactly what that is for this year.
But clearly the range that's in this forecasted surveillance report includes our current thinking about O&amp;M for this year and that certainly won't be significantly off from last year.
Research Division</strong> Awesome.
And so just to recap what you said with regard to the ability to sort of earn on the storm hardening portion of sort of your opportunity set in terms of incremental opportunities for between now and '16.
By definition you see the ability to hold O&amp;M flat is creating the headroom for sort of that tranche of potential opportunities should the commission accept them? Absolutely yes.
Now recognize that most of that the headroom needs to be created in future years because most of that spending will ramp up this year and the higher levels will be attained next year.
But absolutely yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the next rate cycle all of that would get rolled into the rate proceeding? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Last question you talked about how the surplus depreciation in the quarter was $137 million.
You talked about using more in the first half than the second half.
Then you said that surplus depreciation use would decline in subsequent years but the impact of that would be mitigated and/or offset I don't remember the exact language by increases in wholesale revenues from contracts coming on.
Can you talk about the size and duration of those contracts? I don't think I can say anything very specific about the duration.
We did have some discussion in the March investor conference there's a slide that I don't recall exact numbers right now but does show you the magnitude of the impact in 2014.
But we have a significant pickup in 2014 associated with one large contract.
We'll take our next question from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just curious on the wind resource update that you talked about.
And I think you had mentioned a number of 97%.
Is that on the new basis so therefore not comparable with I think it was 101 [ph] in Q1 last year? Or is that given all...
Yes.
Thank you Jonathan.
I should have pointed that out.
Yes that is the current best thinking about what the actual wind resources relative to long-term normal trends.
So not directly comparable to the prior materials.
Research Division</strong> So that's the only number we have so far on the new series basically? Yes.
It's just going to take us a little bit longer.
We've had -- some of the same people have been involved in certain quarter closing activities which have set us behind where I had hoped we would be on that but we will get that out soon.
Research Division</strong> And could you give us any sort of sense I guess on the old basis like the year 2012 was 6% below normal or 94%.
Is the new normal similar to 2012? Or is it less significant than that? No.
The fundamental difference in the recalibration is -- the simple way to think about it is we are recalibrating how much of the output we really think is driven by variability in wind resource as opposed to variation in other factors including asset availability curtailments and a variety of other things.
There was just kind of a little tweak going on there.
And in short we think looking back we've actually been over-attributing shortfalls to wind resource.
Research Division</strong> So operating the reliability has been slightly less good I guess.
Yes.
And let me give you -- there are lots of instances here but let me give you one little one but it turns out to be significant.
Each of these turbines has to be aligned to the average wind direction and the alignment of the turbine instantaneously to the average wind direction has an impact on the power extraction.
So in order to do that you have to have a vein essentially on the turbine that allows the control system to figure out where the wind is coming from to allow the control system to align the turbine optimally with the wind.
If those veins are slightly out of alignment and they do have a tendency to get out of alignment over time for various reasons then you will have the control system not optimally extracting the wind.
So we've had a recent program where we have been going through and realigning some of these little veins.
So that may sound like a small item but being off by a couple degrees which you wouldn't notice off a regular visional inspection can make a difference.
So there's a whole series of things like that.
And we'll have more for you on that but I felt we couldn't deal with that within the context of the earnings release.
We'll take our next question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first question.
You spent a lot of time at the Analyst Day or at least the presentation on transmission opportunities.
I'd be very curious to get your thoughts on FERC 1000 how the compliance filings are working out and as of today what the opportunity set before you by region is.
Sure I'd ask Armando to comment more.
But generally speaking we're getting actually more encouraged that more transmission opportunities may be opening up to competition which we think will give us some opportunities.
But Armando? And that would have been my first remark which is FERC Order 1000 is working.
It may work a bit slow and it may work a bit different by the regions but it's clearly working.
I mean we've seen opportunities come up this year in California.
Opportunities come up in ISO New England.
We're excited about some things that we're looking at in SPP.
And it's -- so it's one of those things where I look at where we have -- we look at -- we have the pipeline today compared to where it was a couple years ago and it's pretty exciting.
But as we talked about at the Analyst Day it's not just the U.S.
opportunities or the 48 states.
We've got several opportunities up in Canada that we're pursuing a bid that we put in earlier this year that we expect to hear back in the third quarter.
Hawaii looks like it might have some opportunities if those -- that RFP comes out in the second or third quarter of this year.
So as you might imagine the incumbent utilities have a significant interest in what happens in their home territory and would like to build the transmission themselves but we see continued opportunities.
And in some regions and states none of which I'll mention at this time it actually looks like even the state regulators are pushing the traditional utilities to be a bit more open and either seek partners or to open up the opportunity entirely to new incumbents.
So that's pretty exciting for us also.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
And just putting pen to pad here when do you think we'd hear more definitive or concrete plans around the transmission opportunities outside of Texas? Well Julien I was just going to say just to put all this in context as a reminder what we have said is the transmission opportunities that we're working are the projects that are likely to come into service in the 2017 2018 kind of time frame.
So these are long-term projects.
In addition I have certainly indicated to a number of people that my -- I personally would be delighted if we could sometime in the course of the next 12 months find that we have succeeded on one of a half dozen or so realistic opportunities that we have.
So I think we have the possibility that sometime in the next 12 months we would have a project to announce.
But even if we do it would be a project that won't have an earnings impact until well out into the latter half of the decade.
But that's fine because we feel very good about where we are through the middle of the decade.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then bringing it a little bit nearer term here.
Looking at New England in the quarter obviously you have some assets up there I suppose a fossil asset that you're looking to get rid of.
To what extent did that operate? How did that impact your results? And how do you think about the uplift we've seen at Algonquin of late? The answer to how much is operated is very very little for a long time.
Recognize these are oil-fired assets.
So they are essentially oil-fired peakers in today's environment.
And obviously with the gas/oil spread being where it is that has meant they have just not operated a great deal.
So their impact on operating earnings and cash flow really immaterial.
But the more fundamental thing is now in light of the structure of the remaining assets in New England which has really fundamentally been reduced to a merchant position at Seabrook and one minor other asset they really -- they didn't fit into -- they didn't play a role in the portfolio.
So that was the reason for making the decision to discontinue operations there and seek a purchaser.
We'll take our next question from Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned that you expected a continued positive trend in weather-normalized use per customer.
And I think in your Analyst Day presentation that was forecasted about 0.3% to 0.7% CAGR.
What in your view are the drivers of a positive trend as opposed to a negative trend in response to the phase-out of traditional incandescent bulbs and a tendency towards greater efficiency in climate controls in commercial buildings residential and commercial customers comprising the bulk of your load? Hugh I guess there are couple of things.
First you've got I would say cyclical factors.
We are still coming back from a period where average usage per customer was actually down relative to long-term averages.
Second you've got long-term secular factors which tend to drive modest increases and then -- and I'll come back to those in the moment.
And then third you've got -- those are offset by the factors you mentioned the efficiency thing.
So we have an explicit view of the impact of efficiency standards which are primarily in the HVAC and lighting areas.
But that middle category the sort of long-term drivers of growth it's fundamentally the long-term economic development.
For a long period of time we have seen that as people get more money they tend to end up with larger houses more electronic devices they tend to feel a little more free to turn the thermostat down to be comfortable all of those kinds of things.
And for certainly as long as we've been looking at the statistics Florida has exceeded the U.S.
average in terms of long-run growth in usage per customer.
So I guess the bottom line answer is we're not expecting to go back to the levels of growth that we saw in the last decade because we do believe that those efficiency appliance efficiency standards will have more of an impact.
But when you couple some underlying long-term growth with a little bit still of recovery from the depressed consumption associated with the recession we think somewhere in that 0.5% a year over several years is realistic.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could quickly on the stretch target of achieving basically flat O&amp;M expense per megawatt hour over the '13 '14 '15 '16 period that implies a fairly substantial cut in real O&amp;M per megawatt hour.
Is that something that's made possible by the rollout of your automated metering system? Or are there other more important drivers that make you think that that's feasible? Well I would say I would -- I certainly wouldn't exclude that.
We are definitely seeing all kinds of opportunities from -- arising from the investment that we've made in the so-called smart grid.
But that's only one of many things.
Look if you go back and look at the long-term trend we have consistently up through the middle of the last decade driven real O&amp;M per kilowatt hour down substantially.
That trend started to reverse a little bit or flattened out in the middle of the last decade and then it reversed a bit with the -- as we went through the recession in the last few years.
So really what we're saying to ourselves is we ought to be able to get back on the track of long-term real improvement in O&amp;M per kilowatt hour over a multiyear period.
And now that we have the resources many of which were freed up from the completion of the rate case last year to focus on the analytical work that's necessary to get us there and the ideas that are coming up through this initiative that I referred to we feel pretty good that we can get back to where we think we should be.
And we'll take our final question from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Moray can you give us what -- on the slide where you showed what the first quarter rate base was is there a number that you can provide us that would be for the end of 2013? I can certainly get back to you on that.
We have a rough number on where we expect to be given the CapEx plans.
I don't have it off the top of my head.
But yes I can get back to you on that.
Okay thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Julie Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Josh.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are Jim Robo President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Eric Silagy President of Florida Power &amp; Light Company.
Moray will provide an overview of our results following which our executive team will be available to answer your questions.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the risk factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA which are non-financial GAAP -- which are non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Julie and good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy had a very successful second quarter.
Our financial results were good driven by new contracted renewable assets at Energy Resources and strong operating performance across the portfolio and put us a little ahead of where we had expected to be at this point in the year.
All of our major existing capital projects progressed satisfactorily most notably with the Cape Canaveral modernization coming into service ahead of schedule and under budget.
In addition we made excellent progress in firming up some of the additional investment opportunities we have previously discussed and in developing initiatives which we expect will allow us to maintain our strong competitive cost position.
As a consequence our expectations for this year have improved slightly while our longer term financial expectations now have additional support.
All in all it was a very good quarter.
At FPL we maintained a regulatory ROE of 11% while continuing to invest capital in ways that improve the value that we deliver to our customer.
Average regulatory capital employed grew roughly 11.5% over the same quarter last year and was the main driver of our net income growth of about 11%.
The FPL team continues to execute well on our major capital projects.
The new units at Cape Canaveral ended service in April under budget and more than a month ahead of schedule.
Their fuel efficiency is roughly 30% better than the old units they replaced and our customers began benefiting from their fuel savings earlier than anticipated.
The roughly $1.3 billion Riviera Beach modernization project remains on schedule to enter service in June of 2014 and our third modernization project at Port Everglades reached a major milestone earlier this month with the demolition of the old 1960s-era plant.
Construction of the new plant is slated to begin next spring.
FPL also made good progress in pursuing additional initiatives that we have previously mentioned.
During the quarter we filed petitions with the Florida Public Service Commission to accelerate our storm hardening program and upgrade our peaking capacity systems.
And we concluded our analysis on the most cost-effective alternative for additional natural gas transportation capacity into Florida.
We will discuss these initiatives in greater detail later in the call.
At Energy Resources contribution to adjusted earnings per share was up $0.15 or 37% over the prior year comparable quarter primarily as a result of new contracted assets added to the portfolio as well as strong operating performance from our existing assets.
We continue to make good progress on our backlog of contracted renewables projects our Canadian wind program is progressing satisfactorily with approximately 125 megawatts expected to enter service this year while the remaining roughly 475 megawatts are targeted to come online in 2014 and 2015.
We continue to expect roughly 300 megawatts of new contracted solar capacity to enter service in the U.S.
this year.
The remaining approximately 500 megawatts of the solar backlog with which we started the year are expected to come online by the end of 2016.
In addition we will have at least another 40 megawatts as I will detail later.
Turning to the U.S.
wind business.
Since our last quarterly call Energy Resources signed contracts for nearly 650 megawatts of new capacity bringing the total to date for the 2013 to '14 program to roughly 975 megawatts of which 250 megawatts are expected to enter service this year.
This places us firmly in the middle of the range of 500 to 1 500 megawatts that we discussed at our Investor Conference in March and we are currently in discussions with customers that could bring the total higher.
The progress we made during the second quarter continues to support our long-term expectations for EPS growth and we continue to see a range of growth in adjusted earnings per share of 5% to 7% off the 2012 base.
While the baseline capital deployment program we discussed in March continues to support the lower end of this range and while we are pleased with the developments of the last 3 months we should also note that 2016 is a long way in the future and there are still many sources of uncertainty that could push us towards either the higher or the lower end of the range.
Let me now walk through our results for the second quarter of 2013.
I will begin with the results at FPL before moving on to Energy Resources and then the consolidated numbers.
For the second quarter of 2013 FPL reported net income of $391 million or $0.92 per share up $0.07 per share year-over-year.
The principal driver of FPL's earnings growth in the quarter was continued investment in the business.
We invested roughly $700 million in the quarter and expect to invest approximately $2.9 billion for the full year.
Regulatory capital employed growth of roughly 11.5% over the same quarter last year was the main driver of growth in net income of approximately 11%.
We utilized $82 million of reserve amortization during the quarter enabling us to maintain a regulatory ROE of 11% and we remain comfortable with the balance which we expect to be roughly $180 million at the end of the year will be adequate through 2016.
Recall that over the past 2 years we have utilized a larger proportion of reserve amortization during the first half of the year and we do not expect this year to be any different.
We also had expected 2013 to require a higher reserve amortization than in subsequent years and this remains true.
For 2013 we believe that achieving an 11% to 11.25% ROE is reasonable.
Economic indicators in Florida continued trending positively during the second quarter particularly those associated with the recovery of the housing market.
Housing inventory levels continue to decline spurring new construction and price increases across the state.
Housing starts in Florida are up 67% year-to-date compared to 28% nationally.
Florida building permits a leading indicator of residential new service accounts are now at levels not seen since 2007 and have outpaced the nation's quarterly growth by 41%.
South Florida home prices are up nearly 13% for the year which is the highest annual growth we have seen since 2006 and above the Case-Shiller Composite Index.
The broader economic outlook in Florida also remains positive.
Florida's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in June dropped 1.7 percentage points from the prior year to 7.1% outpacing the improvement in the national unemployment rate of 0.6% over the same period.
Other positive economic data across the state include improvement in taxable sales which recently surpassed the prerecession peak as well as the consumer confidence index which has also recovered to prerecession levels.
As Florida's economy continues to recover it also continues to diversify.
According to a recent IT industry report Florida ranked third in the number of high-tech establishments and fifth in high-tech employment in the U.S.
International trade is growing as well as Florida now ranks second in the number of exporting companies behind only California.
Encouraging economic data in Florida continues to be generally reflected in the internal indicators that we follow at FPL.
During the second quarter we averaged approximately 35 000 more customers than in the comparable quarter in 2012 representing an increase of 0.8%.
This general level of increase has now been consistent for more than 2 years and we are optimistic that it will increase modestly in the years ahead.
Total retail sales increased 1.0% during the quarter as customer growth and increased underlying usage offset much cooler than normal temperatures we experienced in May.
The number of inactive meters declined 8.5% year-over-year in June the strongest annual decline in over a decade.
We have typically seen seasonal increases in inactive meters between May and June as many retirees leave for the summer.
This year was unusual as we saw inactive meters actually fall 2.8% between May and June indicating either less seasonality or a true tightening of the housing market.
On the other hand the proportion of low usage accounts has remained relatively static and appears to reflect a semipermanent increase in the proportion of investor-owned and internationally owned properties.
New service accounts are on track to total between 35 000 and 40 000 for the year and as was the case last quarter we continued to see growth in our industrial accounts which are generally tied to the construction industry in our service territory.
Overall we remain encouraged by the positive economic trends and customer metrics in our service territory.
As many of you will recall FPL issued a request for proposal in December 2012 for new natural gas transportation capacity that will help ensure Florida's continued access to clean affordable U.S.-produced fuel necessary to meet the state's growing needs.
Only 2 major pipeline system serve Central and Southern Florida today.
A third new pipeline system will increase the diversity and reliability of gas supply for Florida's residents and will bring substantial direct and indirect economic benefits to the state.
During the quarter we completed an extensive analysis of all bids and determined that the best solution for meeting customers' needs economically is a combination of the Sabal Trail Transmission proposal advanced by Spectra Energy for a new northern pipeline originating in Southwestern Alabama and terminating at the new Central Florida hub; and the proposal submitted by Florida Southeast Connection which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy for a second southern pipeline to connect the Central Florida hub to FPL's Martin plant.
This combination was substantially more economical than any other combination of bids and promises to deliver excellent value to FPL's customers decades to come.
Late last week FPL filed with the PSC for prudence review of the necessary contractual arrangements for both Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection and we are seeking regulatory approval by the end of 2013.
Consistent with what we have stated previously about NextEra Energy's willingness to invest in the northern pipeline to ensure that FPL has the necessary natural gas transportation capacity when it is needed we have agreed to invest approximately 1/3 of the capital needed to complete the Sabal Trail pipeline which is expected to total roughly $3 billion.
The NextEra Energy investment in Florida Southeast Connection is expected to total approximately $550 million.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported second quarter 2013 GAAP earnings of $229 million or $0.54 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter were $238 million or $0.56 per share.
Adjusted earnings exclude the mark-to-market effects of non-qualifying hedges which beginning in the second quarter 2013 include interest rate hedges related to the Spain solar project as well as the net effect of other than temporary impairments or OTTI on certain investments.
Energy Resources had a strong quarter with contributions to adjusted EPS increasing $0.15 year-over-year.
Contributions from new investments placed into service since the second quarter of 2012 increased $0.12.
We are targeting approximately 300 megawatts of solar this year for CITC election equating to roughly $75 million in full year adjusted earnings.
Adjusted earnings per share from our existing assets increased $0.04 over the second quarter last year due to favorable wind generation the absence of a power derated Seabrook and the absence of outages at our 2 Texas combined cycle plants.
Our gas infrastructure business increased $0.02 from additional production while the customer supply and trading businesses were down $0.03.
All other effects were minor.
Energy Resources had a successful quarter in the capital markets.
We completed $170 million differential membership interest or tax equity transaction on approximately 160 megawatts of contracted wind projects.
We continue to expect the proportion of PTCs allocated to investors to grow to nearly 50% in 2013 up from approximately 41% in 2012.
We also completed the company's largest project financing in our history a $1.15 billion term loan on our natural gas plants in Texas which significantly exceeds the book value of the assets.
The success of this financing positions our Texas portfolio well and is indicative of our continued ability to access different segments of the capital markets at attractive rates.
We will continue to pursue suitable tax equity and project finance structures to support our overall corporate credit position and our cash flow growth year-to-date is consistent with our projections for credit metric improvement that we discussed at our Investor Conference in March.
I want to take a moment to address a number of recent inquiries from investors about our interest in forming a so-called Yield Co.
for a segment of Energy Resources contracted assets.
While we have made no decisions yet and do not feel any great urgency to undertake a major structural change that might prove difficult or costly to reverse we are actively examining this and other alternatives that might highlight the value of our contracted renewable asset portfolio or might enable us to access a pool of capital with different risk return requirements.
As we examine these alternatives we are very focused on the question of whether and how they might create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
And we are sensitive to the fact that our situation is unique and therefore blindly copying a solution that is suitable for another company may not be the best for our shareholders.
Looking at the company on a consolidated basis.
For the second quarter of 2013 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $610 million or $1.44 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2013 second quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS was $620 million and $1.46 respectively.
The Corporate &amp; Other segment was down slightly from the same quarter last year but we continue to expect the full year contributions from this segment to improve modestly relative to 2012.
Before taking your questions let me turn the call over to Jim Robo for some closing remarks.
Thanks Moray.
At our Investor Conference in March we laid out a series of potential incremental investment opportunities at both our major businesses that we indicated could take us beyond the growth profile implied by the backlog of projects that we enjoyed at that time.
I would like to take a moment to summarize where we stand on those opportunities.
Starting with FPL we indicated that we saw the potential for investing additional dollars in storm hardening and reliability programs depending upon progress in improving our already strong O&amp;M performance.
We've now filed with the PSC a proposed storm hardening plan that will effectively accelerate roughly $400 million of capital spending into the 2013 through '16 time period and we've also increased our expectations for general infrastructure capital expenditures for the same period by roughly $700 million.
All these initiatives are designed to improve our T&amp;D service reliability or to otherwise improve customer service.
We are confident our cost position will allow us to absorb these expenditures under the rate agreement while still earning an adequate return for our shareholders.
In June we completed our analysis on the most economical way to upgrade our peaking capacity and on June 28 we filed with the PSC a plan for upgrade that will cost approximately $820 million and will be completed by the end of 2016.
We believe this proposed program should be eligible for recovery under the environmental cost recovery clause.
A hearing is scheduled to be held in November and a decision is expected later that month.
As Moray mentioned earlier our capital commitment to support the development and construction of the new third gas pipeline could total roughly $1.6 billion and we hope to have a PSC decision on this project by the end of the year.
We continue to look for opportunities to bring more solar generation to Florida and have 500 megawatts of sites more or less ready to move forward.
However we think the most likely timeframe for this initiative will be in 2015 or '16.
And finally we continue to pursue opportunities to serve others within the state either at retail or through wholesale contracts and we hope to close the Vero Beach acquisition in 2014.
At Energy Resources our U.S.
wind program for 2013 and '14 now stands at close to 1 000 megawatts or roughly $1.7 billion worth of capital expenditures with potential to grow up to 1 500 megawatts.
We are making progress on our initiative to add up to 300 megawatts of incremental U.S.
solar by pursuing both greenfield development and acquisition opportunities.
We have already signed contracts on 40 megawatts of U.S.
solar earlier this year and we see the possibility of 1 additional large-scale project being finalized within the next few months Underpinning all of our new investment and growth initiatives is our continued commitment to enhancing our already strong competitive cost position.
We have undertaken a company-wide initiative aimed at rethinking our approach to all aspects of how we do business and I'm very pleased with the many thoughtful and creative ideas that our employees have put forth.
While we are only just beginning to move into the implementation we believe that the entire portfolio of ideas will enable us to attain our goal of keeping total non-fuel O&amp;M flat and nominal terms at FPL through 2016 and at the same time support Energy Resources' growth objectives.
This company-wide initiative has also helped identify a number of areas where we expect to improve margins and grow revenue at Energy Resources.
At our March Conference we indicated that the capital associated with all of our incremental opportunities might total as much as $9 billion.
To date we have firmed up roughly $5 billion of incremental growth capital that we expect to deploy through 2016.
While we still have a long way to go to bring the project shown on this slide to fruition I'm pleased with the progress we have made.
Although the exact proportions will vary at this point we continue to see roughly 60% of our capital expenditures going towards FPL and other rate-regulated opportunities while nearly all our growth capital and energy resources is going into long-term contracted assets.
Consequently we continue to expect our portfolio mix and earnings profile to shift towards a more regulated and long-term contracted business.
Adjusted EBITDA coming from our regulated and long-term contracted operations is expected to reach roughly 84% of the total in 2016.
Turning to the financial outlook.
We are not anticipating that the second half of the year will be quite as strong as the first half.
But based on our performance year-to-date we think it is reasonable to expect our full year adjusted EPS to be in the upper half of the $4.70 to $5 range that we had previously communicated.
For the longer-term outlook we continue to see adjusted EPS growing at a compound annual growth rate of 5% to 7% through 2016 off a 2012 base.
The positive developments of this quarter clearly provide additional support for this growth range.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
As we continue to invest to build and grow our businesses we expect to maintain our strong credit position.
Our cash flow profile is improving which by itself will help our credit metrics return to historical levels.
In addition as we've discussed at the Investor Conference in March we currently expect to issue incremental equity to the extent our capital program requires it.
There has been no major change in our thinking here with the potential for up to $1.5 billion of incremental equity if we were to be at the top end of our range of capital investment.
Given the likely timelines for various regulatory proceedings we expect we will have a firmer sense of our requirements early in 2014.
Before turning the call back to Moray for questions let me close by again summarizing our focus for the remainder of 2013.
First as always we must maintain our focus on excellence in day-to-day operations.
We can never afford to lose sight of the fact that our long-term success is built on delivering outstanding value for our customers at FPL and on operating efficiently and reliably across the portfolio.
Second we will be very focused on moving the large portfolio of ideas we have developed for improving productivity and day-to-day operations from the idea stage to practical reality.
We have much implementation planning and of course execution ahead of us to ensure that customers and shareholders ultimately realize the value of the good work that has been done so far.
At FPL we have 2 modernization projects underway that we are committed to bringing into service on schedule and on budget.
We will also be working on a larger portfolio of reliability investments primarily in the T&amp;D system which we are committed to completing as soon as we practically can.
And third we have some important new initiatives particularly the peaker upgrades and the new gas pipeline that will require development regulatory and ultimately large-scale construction activities to bring to fruition.
The FPL team will have much on their plate.
At Energy Resources in addition to a focus on excellence in daily operations we must continue to push forward with development and construction on the large backlog of contracted renewable projects that we have which today totals more than 2 400 megawatts while also seeking additional opportunities to add to that backlog the Energy Resources team will have much on their plate as well.
Of course this is not the sum total of our challenges but if we are successful with these we will have a strong future ahead of us.
With that we will now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will first go to the side of Dan Eggers with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of on this Yield Co.
conversation.
I know you guys are still on the evaluation mode but a number of years ago when the wind IPO was a very popular idea I know you guys took a look at that also.
Can you just maybe share your thoughts on what you guys learned looking into the process of separation and what kind of bearing that can have as you think about the institutional impact of if you guys were to go forward or something at this point? Sure I'll give that a try.
Just reflecting back on where we were back in 2006 2007 one of the things that we observed then and it would certainly apply in the current case is that there are some incremental costs associated with setting up a separate structure.
So we should -- they're not massive but we shouldn't underestimate them either.
So for us that suggests that we really need to try and understand whether there is a reasonably long-term sustainable opportunity here or whether we're just seeing a sort of transient divergence in capital market prices.
So I think if you reflect on the renewable spin-off phase at least a couple of those looked very strong initially but the performance was not sustained.
And I think reflecting on where we are now we wouldn't want to be in a situation where we've incurred all the incremental costs and only a short time later we find ourselves effectively looking for a way to reverse that.
So having said that to the extent that there's really a pool of capital here that prices certain risk characteristics differently than the main capital markets that is something that we would certainly want to try and take advantage of.
I should point out however that it isn't necessarily simply a public pool of capital there may be other ways of accessing investors who have the same sort of risk return profile.
So one of the other things that I've talked about with at least some of you before that we have in the mix is also whether there are individual large investors who would be interested in a portion -- taking a position in a portion of the portfolio.
So there's a variety of structural ways that we might go about accessing that sort of capital.
So those are some of the things we're looking at right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just on the wind additions were quite strong in the quarter and interesting.
For the Colorado projects they were done because the economics were good not because they were trying to meet renewable standards.
I didn't know if Armando or Mike or somebody want to talk about kind of the bigger landscape for projects that you guys are looking at for customers and what is the prospects? And how long is the timetable do you think to sign contracts between now and year end to qualify for PTCs? Yes.
Let me ask Armando to address that.
But first just generally I don't think there's been a great deal of change in what we're seeing.
Obviously customers as well as we are aware of what the situation is with the PTC program right now.
So there's a strong incentive to the extent that you either have a renewable portfolio obligation in the near term or to the extent that the economics in your particular area look attractive to negotiate and sign if you can.
But Armando you want to comment further? Dan what we're seeing right now is there was certainly a good slew of RFP opportunities I'd say starting late first quarter really progressing through the second quarter this year.
As Moray just indicated though everyone is keenly aware of the PTC expiration.
Once again the words are a bit different this time around than they have been in the past.
What we're seeing right now is a slew of additional RFP opportunities out there whether all of those opportunities whether all of those RFPs come to fruition in real projects remains to be seen.
I'd say that the majority of the opportunities that we're seeing are still RPS-related but there's a good portion of the opportunities that were either the states or the individual customers have met their RPS requirements and are really looking to buy what we call economic wind.
So I'd say there's another 2 to 3 months probably this year where we will -- we and others will have the opportunity to sign up projects for 2013 and 2014.
And I think after that it will slow down a bit.
Yes.
I think if we're -- as I've said before if we're not kind of buttoned down by the fall then it's probably not going to happen unless there's some change in the PTC program.
So there is a clear sense of urgency.
Our next question comes from the side of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Moray I wanted to go to the point you mentioned about thinking about long-term sustainable value of the Yield Co.
as the pros and cons.
One of the dynamics that I looked at a lot is the earnings profile for the business relative to free cash flow and currently resources has very good earnings but the free cash flow is far greater than the earnings and that's often a profile you see for renewables assets.
Is that a dynamic that you all think about in the context of the Yield Co.? It's certainly in the mix.
I wouldn't say that it's at least at this stage one of the principal drivers that we're seeing.
And by that I mean that the cash flow to earnings profile will naturally change over time.
And as we've discussed at the Investor Conference in the next couple of years we're going to see that strong cash flow generation at Energy Resources much more manifest in the overall corporate numbers just the way the dynamics of the portfolio are moving.
So I think that's going to become more obvious anyway.
I think on the fundamentals of the Yield Co.
it seems to me more around whether there's a systematic difference in the way certain investors value different combinations of essentially risk and growth.
I mean obviously what you're doing in a Yield Co.
format is you're creating something that has very visible yield very visible income and also the potential for essentially a certain degree of controllable growth or pre-specified growth I guess a better way of putting it.
Well that kind of structure it seems to me in today's environment should be very attractive to investors.
So that's not in question.
The question is whether the valuation of that cash flow stream in a separate format did in fact any higher than is implicit in the overall corporate format and that's a question that is a little tougher to sort out.
So one of the things that we certainly want to do is take advantage of the fact that we're not under any time pressure here to see how some of the existing vehicles that are now out there trade.
I think that's going to give us a lot more insight.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just as a follow-up.
If you think about the M&amp;A environment for renewables assets I know in the past you've been targeting double-digit unlevered returns and that would put the levered equity returns in our view at least above 20%.
These days from what we see at least the target return levels continue to come down.
It's a competitive environment more into the sort of low double-digit equity returns.
As you think about a Yield Co.
as a currency relative to say NextEra which is many investors think on a sort of EPS accretion basis how do you see a Yield Co.
as a -- in the context of M&amp;A and growth? Well I guess to me it comes back to the point that I was discussing earlier which is whether there's fundamentally a different pool of investors with different -- that place different value on certain risk and growth combinations.
To the extent there is then it seems to me you want to take advantage of that source of capital regardless.
To the extent that it's not then I think a Yield Co.
-- so-called Yield Co.
currency could end up simply misleading you as to the appropriate prices.
In other words I would hate for to be in a situation where having such a vehicle puts pressure on you to lower the underlying returns that you're targeting in the things that you're going after because those things really should be based on the investors' risk-adjusted opportunity costs.
So I'm a little bit leery of it in that respect.
But again I want to emphasize that to me it really comes down to the question of whether there's a distinct pool of investors who fundamentally value different cash flow streams with different risk and growth characteristics differently.
Our next question comes from the side of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess we've beat the Yield Co.
question to death so I won't go there.
Can you just -- what was the wind resource last quarter? I know you revamped your algorithm.
It's -- there's a new chart in the back of the release which we've recalibrated and frankly simplified our calculation of the wind resource so we have reintroduced it.
I just want to caution people that these new numbers are not comparable to the old numbers that we had.
Off-line we can talk all about the gory details of that.
But the bottom line is that in the first quarter it was slightly below.
I think it was like 97%.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry let me clarify my question.
What was it in the second quarter of 2012? The short answer is I don't know on the current basis exactly because we haven't gone back and redone everything in history but it was certainly below average.
So there's no question that the average wind resource shifted around from the low long-term averages to above long-term averages.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 short questions.
You talked about second half might be a little more challenging.
Could you outline some of those challenges and then just an update on where things are in Spain? Sure.
On the second half -- I guess 2 points on the second half.
First of all the comment was meant to say that some of the things that have been good in the first half are just things that were good in the first half and we have no necessary reason to believe that they're going to perpetuate into the second half.
And then secondly and separately there are some things that we see ahead in the second half primarily for Energy Resources that we expect to be a little more of a challenge.
The main one 2 principal ones certain sort of timing matters on the O&amp;M front so I think we're just a little bit ahead of where we expect it to be in the first half.
Some of that will reverse.
But the bigger thing is the -- so far at least we haven't had much summer weather in Texas.
So I think the opportunity is open for what we call asset optimization activities in the Texas portfolio again to be a little less than we would either expect for a normal year or relative to last year.
And the second question on Spain forgive me I've talked to so many people about different developments in Spain and so many things have happened over the course of the past few months.
So relative to where we were last quarter the principal thing that has happened is the Spanish government has come out with yet another round of changes to the tariff regime for renewables.
The current -- what they're talking about is a regime that in general terms would offer investors at least as they've stated it a set margin pretax margin over Spanish government bond yields.
However there's a lot of details that need to be worked out before anybody could understand what that would actually mean for economics.
As a practical matter if it's as they stated it a 300 basis point pretax spread over Spanish government bond yields that clearly doesn't help project economics even compared with the confiscatory changes they had made before.
So as a practical matter we continue to believe that we are in the same situation which is that our economic exposure is limited to the remaining equity contribution which is not material now.
And operationally the plants are up and running very well.
So a disappointing irony here is on the operation side doing better than we expected but as a practical matter economically there doesn't appear to be much future for us in it.
So again just to remind everybody we have taken out from our financial expectations all earnings and cash flow contributions from the Spanish assets.
Our next question comes from the side of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I wanted to just -- and I'm sorry if I missed this the Sabal pipeline and the gas pipeline in terms of the earnings how should we think of the -- is there any impact before it comes on? Yes I know there's some variability in what you guys might actually invest.
But is there any earnings before the pipeline actually comes online that like an AFUDC kind of thing that might happen or can you just elaborate a little bit on that? Yes.
Both portions both the upstream and the downstream portion would receive AFUDC accounting because they're both regulated pipelines so it'll be a contribution that way.
The Sabal Trail portion the upstream portion would be accounted for by us on the equity method so we would just carry up a portion of whatever Spectra is recording there.
But yes there will be an earnings impact -- a cash earnings impact through the construction period.
After that after it goes into service I think folks should recognize that the long-term economic prospects of the upstream portion look very good but they are fundamentally tied to the continued growth and development of the state.
Initially the pipeline will not be fully subscribed as you would expect.
You clearly build these things with room for growth.
And so the short-term economics will not be representative of the long-term economics.
The reality is that FPL customers are getting a great deal in here and the economics -- the long-term economics of the upstream portion of the pipeline are fundamentally dependent upon incremental volume and growth in the FPL volumes in future years.
So we are obviously very optimistic about that but that piece the growth piece remains to be seen.
Sounds like a great project.
Let me just ask you in terms of the solar opportunities in Florida that Jim was mentioning is there any legislation that's contemplated or needed? Or can you do it right now with what you have in place in Florida? There's no guiding legislation either in place or currently contemplated so that's the first part.
As to the second part could we do it right now? I think that the best way to answer that is to say not really.
The reality is that the commission fundamentally is required to look at the lowest cost -- look at and approve the lowest cost resource part.
Now they do have some flexibility within that to consider what may happen down the road.
But I think at this stage given -- particularly given all the other things we've got going on it would be a little bit of a challenge to add that on top.
So that's why in the prepared remarks Jim made the comment.
I think the realistic time to moving forward on that is probably 2015 2016.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the Yield Co.
and all that stuff it sounds like you guys are taking obviously very cautious approach in terms of anything you may do.
Should we think of this as probably something that we probably won't hear anything before the end of the year or -- I hate to put you on the spot on that but I mean just sort of in terms of timing and stuff that sounds like it's going to be some time before you make a decision.
Does that make sense? And also does the incremental the tax equity stuff does that have any impact on the any of this? The potential of you doing it do you follow me? Okay let me hold the second part of that question.
But first on the timing I can't say exactly end of year but I think certainly several months is realistic.
We'll certainly give you an update on where we are.
I'm sure somebody will ask a question on the third quarter so we'll certainly give you an update.
But yes I would certainly hope to be in a position to understand a lot more where we might want to be by the end of the year.
We won't necessarily be in a position to execute even if we do have something that we ultimately want to execute.
On the question the tax equity transactions in a sense yes there is an interaction here.
And since it goes back to the fundamentals that we were talking about earlier which is different investors' appetite for different combinations of current income and future cash flow growth and risk.
In a sense things like tax equity and project finance even are already examples for slightly different forms of vehicle that the Yield Co.
represent.
So you can sort of put them on a spectrum if you like with project finance being at one end of the spectrum where you are carving off a discrete portion of the cash flow stream of in this case the renewable portfolio and packaging it in a particular way that's appealing to certain class of investors.
Tax equity transactions do exactly the same thing.
Now they don't do it quite the same way that the Yield Co.
format does.
It's a different combination of current income cash flow growth and risk.
But in my mind you can place them all on a spectrum.
So that's a long-winded way of saying yes they are -- they do relate.
And specifically when you put these assets into a tax equity transaction you are effectively precluding them from being in a Yield Co.
vehicle in the short term.
However that's not a problem because the Yield Co.
format is not well-adapted to accepting assets that are currently in their PTC earning phase.
So as a practical matter it doesn't have a great deal with interaction.
But conceptually yes.
Our next question comes from the side of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Just first on the Florida pipeline the intrastate piece.
Would that have a more timely return relative to the interstate piece that you mentioned before? i.e.
is it fully running from the get-go? No.
It will have a -- as I think about it a slightly more favorable because fundamentally as I've said many times to many folks FPL is the principal customer for the downstream portion whereas the upstream portion has the potential to serve many other customers over time and it's that growth to serve the other volumes that ultimately should provide the economic leverage that will ensure that the lifetime returns of the upstream portion are attractive.
So because the downstream portion is much more heavily likely to be dedicated to FPL the profile is a little better.
But it still has the same thing because what FPL required was a step-up specified growth in volumes and options on future volumes.
So obviously everybody who competed for the downstream portion had to size the thing for the long term and so the upfront returns will not be as strong as the lifetime returns.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And one other question just back to the hot topic.
Back 3 or 4 years ago when we had the pure-play renewables storage you never went through a process like this of evaluating options and the like.
So this does seem to be somewhat different than then and seems to be more serious review than 3 or 4 years ago.
So is that fair to read that there is more validity to either this structure or something like it than necessarily what you saw when we went through this with the pure-play renewables? No.
I don't think that's a total -- fair Steve.
We may not have been so transparent about it at the time but we spent an awful lot of time back in 2006 2007 on various structures at that time so there was a great deal of work.
The key thing then at that time was we could not get ourselves convinced that there really was a -- I'll call it a capital market mispricing opportunity.
We thought that there was an unsustainable bubble if you like.
And our conclusion at that time -- again this is now ancient history but our conclusion at that time was it didn't justify going through all the distraction and the incremental costs of the establishment of the structure for something that wasn't going to allow us long term to access a different pool of capital.
So it's the same fundamental reading we did spend a lot of time on.
We may not have been as explicit as we have on this one.
Next we will go to the side of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the pipeline really more of a longer-term strategic question.
How should we think about your decision to invest over $1.5 billion of capital into a pipeline? Is this the -- is this a one-off because of the opportunity into the FP&amp;L service territory and into the state of Florida? Or is this more of a strategic move where you could see other incremental pipeline investments down the road whether stand-alone or via joint ventures with other companies.
That's the first part.
The second is once the pipeline is online and in service how do you think about the corporate structuring meaning the potential for either other JVs or potential master limited partnership opportunities? We're now talking about a sizable investment in midstream assets.
So just trying to think through how you're envisioning kind of the 5 to 10-year path? Well Michael I think you're perhaps a little ahead of us here.
A fundamental motivation here this is a Florida project.
We are interested in figuring out as we always have been how we continue to improve value delivery to our FPL customers here in Florida and this we think is an absolutely critical project it's a great project as I said earlier I think FPL customers are getting a great deal off this and we want to make sure that we are a part of seeing that that things happen.
That's our fundamental motivation.
We are certainly comfortable committing a large amount of capital to this project with these kinds of economics given the overall regulatory environment but it's fundamentally about serving our FPL customers.
Having said that there is no question that assuming that we are successful in bringing this project to completion it will provide us with other possibilities.
And where that may take us we're going to have to see.
But all of that is off in the future.
We're talking right now about -- just as a reminder a pipeline is going to come into service in 2017 and there's a lot of work to be done to get it to that point and obviously the whole set of projects is subject to regulatory approval.
So again it's all about serving our customers in Florida better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just a quick follow-up.
How do you -- how should investors think about the targeted return on capital for the new pipeline project and will it differ much from the northern leg to the southern leg? Well I'm not going to get into the numerical details because obviously I think my remarks earlier should have suggested there's uncertainty about what certainly the short-term economics are going to be.
I think the best way to think about this is you can look at other major pipeline projects across the country and get an idea of the range of economics that are reasonable.
As I've said the long-term economics here particularly for the upstream portion are based on continued growth in Florida and the need for natural gas transportation capacity by folks other than just FPL.
So we are fundamentally making a positive statement about our belief in the long-term growth of Florida here.
Next we will go to the side of Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
My first question is about the dividend growth.
Given that you have already locked about $5 billion of the additional CapEx and that will require some additional equity funding how should we think about growth in dividends? Is there an expectation that some of that growth -- significant pickup in dividends will be delayed because of additional CapEx? Well first of all although it's perhaps an admission against interest I can't -- I have to dispute your characterization as having things locked in.
There are lots of steps that have to be gone through before any of these incremental projects are really in service so including regulatory approvals for the development steps.
So let's not get ahead of ourselves here.
Having said that on the dividend growth front I'd just go back to what we I believe talked about in the March Investor Conference and certainly have talked about subsequently which is the current target is 55% payout ratio in 2014.
Where we go beyond that will clearly depend upon the CapEx profile and where I'd characterized it before is to suggest that beyond '14 we will hope to see dividend growth at least in line with earnings growth.
And by that I mean that if we're at the higher end of the earnings growth we will need all the cash flow and we will be in the market for incremental equity as we've discussed and therefore we'll probably more likely see dividend growth in line with EPS growth.
If we were at the lower end of the CapEx range then we would clearly have free cash flow available and that might suggest increasing the payout ratio further which obviously would imply dividend growth slightly higher than earnings growth.
So I still think that framework for thinking about it is reasonable.
If we were at the upper end of the CapEx range the upper end of the EPS growth then I think dividend growth in line with EPS growth is a reasonable expectation.
Okay.
And completely separately on the new wind projects we're seeing those prices of wind power in low $20s.
Could you briefly talk through what actually offsets the reduction of pricing of electricity versus the returns that you can realize on those projects? I mean is this that the net capacity factor went up so much? And if so what is the average Mcf that you are realizing on those new projects? Or is it the cost of new build that has dropped significantly? Basically I cannot somehow make the numbers work.
Sure.
Well the single biggest driver of the improvement in the economics of the wind projects has clearly been the increase in capacity factors.
So to get a PPA in the $20 range and still yield acceptable returns you have to be in a part of the country that has very strong wind resource and with modern technology turbines you can expect to see capacity factors as high as 50% where a decade ago in the same area we might have been looking at 33%.
So that change when you run it through the numbers is huge.
Secondly but much lower in importance it is true that we've seen some relief on the cost side of the turbines but that I think was more a function of a retreat from very high prices at a time when the turbine supply market was very tight.
So I think that is more a cyclical thing.
But the long term the biggest single trend is improvement in technology and improving the capacity factors.
But the cost of new build is roughly -- is it roughly $1 000 per kilowatt or is it just slightly above that level? No I think if you look at the numbers that we've discussed in the script I think the average we're looking at is about $1 700 a kW.
Obviously it varies depending upon where you are.
Okay.
And you are still accepting similar levels of returns as you did a couple of years ago? Yes the -- over a long period of time we really haven't seen we've been able to maintain decent modest spreads over risk-adjusted cost of capital.
So obviously the overall cost of capital has come down over the course of last decade just because real interest rates have come down.
But the spreads have been generally in the same kind of range.
I think we have time for one more.
Our last question will come from the side of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> My question goes to the reserve amortization and its impact on regulatory ROEs.
My recollection was that you had the option to reverse about $400 million over the '13 to '16 time frame.
Did I hear you correctly in saying that of that $180 million would be left at year end '13? That's correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
Implying $220 million to be amortized in '13.
Correct yes.
We had always -- just the way that the dynamics of the business work we have always been aware that 2013 was going to require a lot more surplus amortization to maintain a given level of ROE.
In 2014 among other things we have a significant pickup on the wholesale side which we were obviously aware of so that that was baked into our thinking about the spread of the $400 million over the course of the period.
So I just -- that may perhaps be worth emphasizing that with $180 million leftover at the end of this year we still feel very comfortable based on where we see our cost structure going that we are going to be able to maintain healthy ROEs for shareholders for the remainder of the rate agreement period out through 2016.
So we feel good about where we are on that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But basically the ability to maintain let's say an 11% ROE is contingent on one the growth of the wholesale sales; and then two your flat O&amp;M cost forecast? Is that what I heard you just say or...
Well I think going forward it's -- we -- clearly not so much the wholesale growth because at least the piece I'm talking about is a contract that we've signed some years ago so we know we're going to be on that.
If you look at areas of uncertainty it would be on retail growth so customer growth and usage growth for which our expectations are continued growth on the customer side in the 35 000 to 40 000 a year; and on the usage side of maybe a half to a little bit more percent per year; and then the cost control which you referred to.
So to the extent that there's uncertainty or risk about those 2 elements and that's reflected in our thinking about where we can be over the course of the rate period.
But again as I said we feel pretty good about it based on what we see right now.
Thank you everybody.
Thank you.
For those who didn't get a chance to get their questions answered please follow up with Investor Relations.
Thank you for joining our second quarter call.
This does conclude today's program.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Julie Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining us this morning are Jim Robo NextEra Energy President and Chief Executive Officer; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Eric Silangy President of Florida Power &amp; Light.
Moray will provide an overview of our results during the quarter and our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the risk factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that today's presentation includes references to adjusted earnings which are non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying this presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Julie good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered a strong third quarter results and continued to make progress on the initiatives laid out in the March investor conference.
Our earnings growth in the quarter was driven primarily by continued investment at FPL and the addition of new contracted renewables projects at Energy Resources.
With 3 quarters of good performance behind us we are well-positioned to close up a year above the midpoint of the range of adjusted EPS expectations that we shared with you in January subject to our usual caveats.
At the same time we continued to execute on our existing backlog of development and construction projects and we have made further progress in firming up some of our incremental investment opportunities.
At FPL net income growth was driven by investment in projects that are designed to further improve an already strong customer value proposition.
We remain very focused on execution and all of our major capital projects are on track with the Riviera Beach and Port Everglades modernizations both running on time and on budget.
We have filed for the necessary regulatory approvals for the new gas pipeline and the peaker upgrade project and we have made good progress in defining apart towards our goal of keeping nonfuel O&amp;M to roughly flat in nominal terms through the period of the current rate agreement.
At Energy Resources adjusted earnings growth was driven primarily by new investment in our contracted renewables project.
In the third quarter we brought into service roughly 125 megawatts of wind in Canada but is contracted under the Ontario feed-in tariff program.
We continue to execute on our backlog of approximately 800 megawatts of contracted U.S.
solar projects of which about 300 megawatts are expected into come into service in 2013 with the balance expected to come into service by the end of 2016.
We have also been successful in adding to our pipeline of contracted renewables development opportunities and I will provide some additional details later in the call.
During the quarter we move forward with our company-wide initiative to improve productivity which we refer to as Project Momentum.
After careful evaluation we have identified and are moving ahead with a number of ideas that we expect to yield in total somewhere between $200 million and $250 million in annual cost savings.
The transition cost associated with this initiative negatively impacted adjusted earnings in the third quarter by $0.05 and we expect the full year impact to be roughly $0.09 or $0.10.
We will provide more detail on the impact of both FPL and Energy Resources when we walk through their quarterly results.
With the progress we've made year-to-date we continue to see a long-term adjusted earnings per share of compounded annual growth rate of 5% to 7% through 2016 off the 2012 base.
Our expectations are subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
Let me now walk through our results for the third quarter of 2013.
I'll begin with the result of FPL before moving on to Energy Resources and then the consolidated numbers.
For the third quarter of 2013 FPL reported net income of $422 million or $0.99 per share up $0.06 per share year-over-year.
As you evaluate the numbers you may wish to keep in mind that they include the transition costs associated with Project Momentum that I spoke about a moment ago.
This includes the negative impact of roughly $0.04 in the quarter and we expect the full year impact to be approximately $0.07 or $0.08.
The principal driver of FPL's earnings growth in the quarter was continued investment in the business.
We invested roughly $700 million in the quarter and expect our full year capital investments to be on the order of $3 billion.
Regulatory capital employs growth of 9.3% over the same quarter last year with the main driver of net income growth.
Our reported ROE for regulatory purposes was 11.07%.
This includes the impact of the Project Momentum transition costs absent these costs the regulatory ROE would have been 11.25%.
Under the current rate agreement we record reserve amortization entries to achieve a predetermine regulatory ROE for each period in this case the 11.25% that I just mentioned excluding special charges such as the Project Momentum transition costs.
During the quarter we reversed 10 million of reserve amortization recorded earlier in the year in order to achieve this predetermined ROE.
Looking forward we expect to maintain a regulatory ROE of 11.25% excluding Momentum transition costs for the balance for the year which will likely mean we will use between $170 million and $180 million of reserved amortization in 2013.And we'll end with the reserve amortization balance of approximately $220 million to $230 million assuming normal weather for the remainder of the year.
Looking beyond this year we believe that our expected end of year reserve balance when combined with our weather normalized sales growth forecast at 1.5% to 2% per year and our current O&amp;M expectations as well as the commitment of a 4-year total of roughly $7 billion in infrastructure CapEx will allow us to support regulatory ROEs in the upper half of the allowed band of 9.5% to 11.5% for the remaining period of the current rate agreement.
Furthermore we expect that we can do this while keeping typical residential customer bills the lowest in the state and among the lowest in the country and improving on our already excellent reliability in customer service records.
If we are successful in meeting our expectations by 2016 we will have further improved our already outstanding customer value proposition and we will be well-positioned for whatever proceedings are required to determine rates for 2017 and beyond.
Turning to our development efforts.
All of our major capital projects at FPL are progressing well and in October we received approval from the FPSC for 2014 nuclear clause recovery of our full request which includes recovery of extended power upgrade investment completed earlier this year.
FPL's nuclear plant upgrades with the largest in recent U.S.
history and added more than 500 megawatts of zero-emission capacity to our system.
In addition to helping improve our fleet's overall fuel diversity these upgrades are already delivering millions in fossil fuel savings for FPL customers.
Our Riviera Beach and Port Everglades modernization are both running on time and on budget.
Riviera Beach is about 90% complete and is expected to come into service by mid-2014.
Site clearance at Port Everglades is underway and construction is slated to begin in the spring of next year with an expected in-service date by mid-2016.
We are also moving through the regulatory process on a number of our growth initiatives.
Last week the commission voted unanimously to approve FPL's natural gas transportation capacity contracts that support a new pipeline into the state.
While this decision is still subject to appeal it is an essential first step to enable the stable trail transmission and Florida Southeast connection pipeline projects to move towards construction.
Additionally our Commission decision on our accelerated storm hardening program is expected in the coming weeks and hearings on our request to upgrade pigging capacity included in our environmental cost recovery close filing earlier this year are currently scheduled for December with the Commission decision expected in January.
The programs we have laid out to accelerate and expand reliability investments to improve our system infrastructure are also progressing well.
During the quarter we activated more of the functionality of our smart meters including remote connect and disconnect.
We also continued our deployment of automated feeder switches and fault current indicators.
Year-to-date we have avoided almost 300 000 customer interruptions due to this technology.
We also have commissioned a new substation relay system designed to help reduce outage exposure and outage time and it will be rolled out to many of our substations over the coming years.
We continue to make good progress on hardening our feeders replacing wood transmission structures with steel or concrete as well as our other storm hardening efforts.
Recall the general infrastructure and storm hardening investments do not have separate cost recovery mechanisms.
Costs incurred as part of these programs will be absorbed in our current rate structure for the next 4 years.
Let me now spend a few minutes on the Florida economy.
Overall Florida's economy continues to improve.
Most of indicators we track have improved relative to a year ago and the economy continues to expand at a moderate pace.
Unemployment ticked down again in August at 7% rolling from over 11% in August 2010.
The number of jobs in the state is up 1.8% compared with the year ago outpacing the average of the rest of the country.
However we are seeing some signs that the rate of growth maybe moderating.
Consumer confidence is diminished a bit in recent months and there are signs that the strong growth in retail sales may be tapering off.
As the accompanying chart shows new building permits have dropped from their recent peak although they remain at a healthy level.
As you all know events in Washington in recent months have not been supportive of consumer confidence and some of what we're seeing here in Florida maybe just a temporary pause.
Nevertheless as we have noted before we believe that full recovery in Florida will depend in part on continued improvement in other parts of the country.
The fundamental attractiveness of our state remains strong and a number of studies suggest that Florida has improved its economic competitiveness relative to most other states over the past few years.
Learning from the general Florida metrics to our own Florida's customer count averaged approximately 53 000 or 1.2% higher than in the comparable quarter in 2012.
This is a significantly higher growth rate than we expected or than we have been running recently.
However a significant portion of this probably about 1/4 can be attributed to the rollout of our remote connect and disconnect capability enabled by our Smart Meter program.
This ability to more efficiently and inexpensively manage the connect and disconnect processes has in turn led to a sharp drop in our number of inactive accounts that is meters installed for which we have no customer account.
While a sharp increase in customers in the corresponding decline in inactive meters is an excellent development it does complicate our analysis of growth.
Not surprisingly the larger number of customer accounts being activated are disproportionately residential and therefore have lower usage in our average retail accounts.
Thus the impact on volume growth for new customers is much less than 1.2%.
In the accompanying chart in the top left we've attempted to adjust for this effect.
We estimate that customer growth of 1.2% drove volume growth of 0.5% while weather driven usage was negative 0.7% and underlying usage per customer was down slightly.
Regardless of the exact contributions from customer growth and usage impacts it is clear that overall weather adjusted volume was up only slightly compared with the third quarter of last year.
While a single quarter of weak growth should not be a cause of concern we will obviously be watching closely to see if there's any structural change going on or if we are just seeing a temporary effect.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported third quarter 2013 GAAP earnings of $281 million or $0.66 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter were $190 million or $0.45 per share.
Adjusted earnings exclude the mark-to-market effects of nonqualifying hedges and the net effect of other than temporary impairments or OTTI on certain investments.
Beginning in the third quarter adjusted earnings also exclude after-tax operating results associated with the Spain solar projects.
Energy Resources had a good quarter with contribution to adjusted EPS increasing $0.07 versus the prior year comparable quarter despite the impact of the transition costs associated with Project Momentum that I spoke about earlier on the call.
These transition costs negatively impacted the quarter by roughly $0.01 and we expect the full year impact to Energy Resources to be approximately $0.02 or $0.03.
Contributions from new investments with the primary driver of adjusted earnings growth for the quarter and generated roughly $0.08 up the year-over-year increase.
The gas infrastructure business contributed $0.02 to growth due to additional production over the prior year offsetting these gains were lower contributions from our customer supply and trading businesses which declined $0.03 versus the third quarter last year due in large part to lower margins in our full requirements business.
All other effects in the quarter were minor.
The Energy Resources team continues to drive execution on our growth plans.
As mentioned earlier in the call during the quarter we brought into service a Canadian wind project with a capacity of roughly 125 megawatts.
As a reminder we have approximately 475 megawatts of additional Canadian wind capacity which we expect will enter service in 2014 and 2015.
We continue to expect to bring approximately 300 megawatts of contracted solar projects into service this year or early next year with the addition of our 20-megawatt Mountain View project and a partial commissioning of our Genesis and Desert Sunlight projects.
The balance of Genesis and Desert Sunlight as well as our 250-megawatt Macquarie project are expected to come into service by the end of 2016.
Turning to our U.S.
wind program.
The team recently signed a PPA for a 200-megawatt project which is expected to come into service in late 2014 or 2015 bringing our total new contracted U.S.
wind development portfolio to approximately 1 175 megawatts.
The IRS recently provided additional clarity around the requirements for projects to qualify for the PTC under the Safe Harbor provisions that were included in the January PTC extension.
The new IRS guidance essentially provides that U.S.
wind projects satisfying the Safe Harbor provisions that are placed in service by year-end 2015 will be eligible for the PTC.
While we have yet to determine the impact that this guidance could have on our projections the new wind projects in the 2014 to 2015 timeframe we consider this a positive development for our U.S.
wind program and we will continue to provide updates in our expectations as we move forward.
We are also working to continue to build our solar business.
We previously discussed the potential for adding 1 or possibly 2 more large scale solar projects before the end of 2016 and I'm pleased to note that we have recently entered into an agreement to purchase a development projects for the First Solar who will complete the development process and also provide EPC services for us.
While there are a number of additional milestones to be achieved before we can consider this transaction complete this is an important step for our solar portfolio.
This project will have a capacity of approximately 250 megawatts and operate under a 20-year PPA.
Total capital cost is estimated at $1.1 billion.
Together with the 40-megawatt projects that we announced earlier this year this project would bring the portfolio of incremental solar to about 290 megawatts near the top end of the expected range of 0 to 300 megawatts that we discussed at our investor conference.
We now have nearly 1 100 megawatts of U.S.
contracted solar projects in our development portfolio.
As we do each year in the third quarter we have updated our accrued in gross margin hedge slides and included an additional year forward.
The portfolio of financial information for 2014 and 2015 can be found in the appendix to the presentation.
For 2014 old projects which are expected to be in service by the end of 2013 have been moved to their respective categories which in this case include both contracted wind for the wind projects and contracted other for our solar additions.
For 2015 projects expected to come into service in both 2014 and 2015 are included in the new investment line.
I would like to emphasize that this includes only contributions from projects for which we have assigned PPA.
I would also like to remind everyone that these charts use a metric that we call equivalent EBITDA in order to put all our businesses on a comparable basis for the purpose of analyzing our exposure to first order changes in future commodity prices primarily movements in forward prices for natural gas power and spark spreads.
Equivalent EBITDA is not a GAAP measure and should not be thought of as a surrogate for or constituent of cash flows.
Looking at the company on a consolidated basis.
For the third quarter of 2013 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $698 million or $1.64 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2013 third quarter adjusted earnings in adjusted EPS was $607 million and $1.43 respectively.
The Corporate and other segment was up $0.04 versus the prior year primarily because last year's Q3 results included a small asset impairment charge of $0.03.
We continue to expect the full year contributions from this segment to improve modestly related to 2012 in part due to increased contributions from our Lone Star Transmission line which went into service in the spring of this year.
Other areas of our transmission business are also progressing well.
We were recently designated by the Ontario Energy Board to develop the East-West Tie Line Transmission project with our partners Enbridge and Borealis.
While we still need approval to construct the line following the development process we certainly consider this a positive first step.
We look forward to providing you with updates on this project as well as others mentioned in our investor conference as our transmission team continues its development efforts.
Before closing I'd like to make a few comments on our financing plans and cash flow position.
We've repeatedly noted the important role of balance sheet strength and credit play in our overall competitive strategy.
At our investor conference in March we discussed our expected growth in cash flow and our focus on returning to credit metrics more consistent with our past performance no later than 2014.
We indicated that dependent on our success in firming up what we call incremental investment opportunities we expected to need to issue up to $1.5 billion in equity in 2014 in order to achieve our target credit metrics.
We have also indicated we expected the majority if not all of this to be in the former Street common rather than equity units.
In the accompanying chart we have shown some of the principal credit metrics that we track with our expectations for 2014 and the corresponding ranges that the rating agencies indicate for those metrics at our ratings.
You will note that we expect to see our metrics return to levels fully consistent with our rating by next year.
Since the March investor conference we have obviously enjoyed significant success in firming up many of incremental growth opportunities.
While various approvals and permits are still needed we feel very confident that we will be able to move forward with much if not all of the incremental investment sometime over the next 3 or 4 years.
As a result today our best estimate is that we will need to issue at least $1 billion in incremental equity before the end of next year.
In pursuing the necessary financing to support our growth plans including issuing new equity we expect to be as we have been in the past opportunistic as to the exact timing structuring of specific transactions.
We will take advantage where we can of favorable market opportunities and will not lock ourselves into a preset schedule.
As you think about our financing needs as well as our overall value proposition it will be important to keep in mind our cash flow position.
We have previously indicated we expected to see strong growth in cash flows in 2013 with more to come in 2014 and we are on track relative to our expectations this year.
In 2012 our cash flow from operations was about $4 billion.
This year we expect it to become about $4.8 billion.
And next year we expect it to be somewhere between $5.6 billion and $5.9 billion consistent with the range we suggested back in March.
This would represent growth of nearly 50% over 2 years.
The accompanying chart attempts to put this in perspective.
We show on the left side of the chart a range of expected distributable cash flow for capital holdings in 2014.
Capital holdings is the entity that aggregates all our non-FPL financing activities.
Distributable cash flow is defined here as net of expected interest and principal repayment obligations on all limited recourse project level debt at Energy Resources as well as net of expected maintenance CapEx.
We then compare this with total senior debt of capital holdings as well as with the sum of senior debt and lower rated subordinated debentures.
As you will see the coverage is strong and is of course further supported by the parent guarantee.
The comparison on the right side of the slide we have also put FPL on a roughly similar basis treating all our infrastructure capital as maintenance CapEx and comparing the resulting expected 2014 distributable cash flow with the total first-mortgage debt outstanding.
While there are some differences between FPL and capital holdings not reflected in this analysis the general comparisons maybe helpful to you.
In short we continue to execute well and if we are successful in meeting our financial expectations for 2014 we will have a very strong and balanced cash flow position across the portfolio.
Before leaving the subject the cash flow I feel sure that 1 or 2 if you will have questions about the status of our thinking on the so-called yield co..
First let me be clear that we have made no firm decisions at this point.
We continue to examine the concept of recycling capital by our focus on investors with the strong interest in yield oriented vehicles supported by renewable assets whether in a public or a private format.
During the quarter we have observed further developments that appear to support the viability of the concept at least under current market conditions.
We've spent some time looking at the specifics of our own portfolio and now estimate that we have perhaps 1 500 to 2 000 megawatts of operating assets that would fit the desired format with another 1 200 megawatts in the development pipeline all of which could potentially be contributed during the 2014 to 2017 timeframe.
Longer term additional projects might become suitable especially as wind projects complete the 10-year period of PTC eligibility.
I want to reiterate that we have made no firm decisions and continue to study various alternatives and we'll keep you up-to-date with our thinking as it evolves.
Over all with good performance in Q3 and continued progress on our new initiatives our financial expectations remain much the same.
We continue to see our 2013 adjusted EPS in the upper half of the $4.70 to $5 range that I told you in January.
In 2014 we continue to expect earnings per share to be in the range of $5.05 to $5.45.
And for the longer-term outlook we continue to see adjusted EPS growing at a compound annual growth rate of 5% to 7% through 2016 off the 2012 base.
As always our expectation is subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
And in the appendix we have provided a number of sensitivities around our 2014 expectations.
And we'll now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first just to elaborate a little bit further on yield co.
and I'm sure further questions will go.
Could you talk a little bit more specifically of those operating assets how you're thinking about the 1.5 to 2 gigs? What are those assets if you could at least talk broadly? And then secondly with respect to the development pipeline are those assets that have tax attributes today or are you thinking about when you say development those that are rolling off tax attributes? Let me take the development side first.
As you would expect that is all renewable because that's where our development efforts have been concentrated for some time.
And a mixture of wind and solar but excluding wind projects that would be PTC projects for reasons that we discussed before.
Of the base existing operating projects it would be a mix of projects heavily renewable potentially some of our contracted fossil assets as well and the renewables being a mix of wind and solar wind that has either completed its PTC period or on which we didn't take PTCs.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just more broadly here if you will.
What's the timing on making a decision.
I don't want to put you in a back in a lock or anything but just broadly speaking what are you waiting for perhaps the better way to ask it? I guess the first 1 I can respond to that is we're waiting for our own analyses to be -- to reach a crystallization point.
I would say at this stage each round of review that the senior team has done has enlightened us further but it also raises more question.
So there'll be a series of rounds of those and until we're comfortable with what they've got all issues addressed we don't feel any compulsion to take pressure to make a decision one way or the other.
I think we talked that on the last call we certainly talk to the conferences about some of the issues that we have.
So I'm not going to reiterate those things.
But until we're really comfortable that we've got all the pieces buttoned down as I've said we don't feel any compulsion to make a decision one way or the other.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly if you will; obviously got some IRS guidance in the quarter can you speak to how much wind you expect to have in the pipeline or qualifying for the PTC by year-end and how this sort of evolved -- how are the IRS guidance and pushing it into '15 has evolved taking it into the pipeline opportunity of the wind? It's a good question.
I think the short answer is no I can't.
Because it's still fairly recent and it has had impact already on the market.
So as we discussed before customers react to their expectations about the PTC program just as we do.
So I think we're now going through sort of another round of jointly with customers and potential customers are trying to figure out how much more that may add.
So the plus side is the fundamentally good aspect is that I think it provides more opportunities.
There is a little bit of a short-term negative because it takes some of the pressure off individual situations.
So I think -- we should be in a better position to give you some thinking about that probably at the next call.
But right now we're just not far off alone.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Are you looking specifically at yield co.
are you looking at the general idea of an alternative structure? We are looking at the general idea of an alternative structure but with a definite focus on trying to create a structure that's appealing to yield oriented investors with a strong interest in renewables is probably the best way to put it.
So as we discussed on the last call we're looking at both what I'll call the public yield co.
vehicle which there are some examples out there as well as potential into private alternatives private analogues if you like.
Research Division</strong> I guess yield co.
is kind of a vague term.
Okay.
And then why are you not carving out Project Momentum implementation costs from your adjusted earnings? I guess we could have I mean our feeling is they are part of our operating results but we wanted to call them out so you can make whatever adjustments for your modeling purposes that you should choose.
Research Division</strong> And when do you expect that $200 million to $250 million to start hitting impact statement -- hitting the income statement? We're already seeing some benefits this year.
We'll see a lot more next year.
I think the best way to think about that is an annualized run rate by 2016.
So by the time we get to 2016 we should have a full value of that flowing through.
Research Division</strong> And could you just describe is this headcount is this process is it all of the above? It is all of the above.
We undertook a process that generated something like 9 000 individual ideas that various teams worked through and analyzed.
And in the end we have about 1 000 individual ideas that we're now pursuing so they range over the map in every department or every part of the company was involved.
So it's just a little bit of everything.
Certainly there are some headcount implications and the transition cost largely driven by those headcount implications but there's a lot of changes to the way we conduct work that will allow us to see benefits over time.
Research Division</strong> In your resources waterfall chart you usually have existing assets kind of broken out I guess that didn't change.
But you had a pretty [indiscernible] tough wind headwind.
What does that do to earnings? Yes.
I mean there were lots -- as you might expect within that broad category there were lots of ups and downs.
The wind for the existing assets was actually a bit better than last year the wind resource is about the same.
We've got a little more output out of the projects.
So it's just a whole series of pluses and minuses but net the existing assets to be about the same.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just a sort of follow-up on the equity needs and the potential for yield co.
could one assume that the equity needs would be somewhat satisfied by yield co.? In theory I think that's possible.
In practice I don't think it's that likely.
I think the yield co.
alternative needs to be thought of as sort of a restructuring of where we -- the basic financial structure.
So it could be but I think it's better to think of the equity as just separate from.
Okay.
I got you.
Then in terms of the equity should we think of this as basically common or should we think of it as potentially hybrid or something else? You should think of it as primarily it's not 100% common.
We've continued to manage with a slice of hybrids and a slice of -- let me be explicit.
Hybrids for us means the deeply subordinated junior debentures.
And then equity units maybe what you're referring to when you say hybrids.
But both of those have a place in the capital structure.
But I think we have about the right amount of each of those right now.
Okay great.
And then back to Project Momentum it does appear that you guys are using a more conservative approach in terms of accounting for the cost to achieve.
And I was just wondering how long would those costs to achieve should we think is a sort of flow in terms of how they'll progress and you mentioned that the full benefit will sort of show up in 2016 but how do we think about the cost to achieve.
I mean will they be sort of steadily run rate here for the next couple of years or how should we think about the cost to achieve and how they might affect your earnings going forward? At this stage I would expect that we will see the bulk of them this year.
As we indicated in the prepared remarks we've got maybe $0.10 for this year.
There probably will be some in 2014 don't know how much at this stage but not likely as much as $0.10.
And then '15 and beyond I would be surprised if we have more than a few pennies.
Okay great.
And then just finally on the sales growth you did mention that there was a little anomalies here with in terms of usage at least of change.
And we are seeing as you know around the country sort of more significant pullbacks in usage -- weather normalized usage.
Any sense -- I mean you did mention in the prepared remarks and everything but any sense as to -- anything or any more color that you can give with respect to what you're seeing so far? Well if it's anything I think it's most likely to have to do with general economic conditions.
We don't see any signs that this is driven by what I'll call incremental efficiencies.
So we bake into our expectations about a percentage point decline every year as new efficiency standards kind of roll through the capital stock.
So it's hard to see that this recent phenomenon would represent any sharp change in and efficiency.
So I think it's much more likely -- if it is real to be just due to economics.
So I think the main thing there is -- that we know that several of the indicators at the general economic level seem to be kind of taking a pause and then we also see that same phenomenon in our usage.
So we're just a little more cautious that we may be not slowing down but the rate of growth may be coming down a bit.
Our next question comes from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for the incremental disclosure very helpful.
When we think about how you've contextualized the percent or the portion of your nonutility business that could potentially be eligible for the yield co.
structure how we translate that into the percentage over the $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion of distributable cash you're showing on line 13 comes from those eligible projects? I think the short answer is you can't right now because we haven't made the connection between those 2 because frankly they've been independent streams of activities.
So stay tuned on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then obviously we also have to figure out or you have to figure out how much debt goes with that to get to a bottom line yield distributable cash number how much is amortizing? Those are all the sort of pieces that we have to figure out right? Absolutely.
The modeling of what it would look like has to take into account all of those things.
The other thing to be noted there is just to reiterate our commitment to the strong credit position.
We would have to make sure that were we to move forward with a yield co.
structure that we adjust back-up at the corporate level to make sure that we retain the appropriate financial mix and credit metrics that we're targeting there.
So that's an extra layer of complexity.
It's not just which assets would move down and what's the debt associated with them.
But it's also the ripple effect back to the parent company to make sure that you've got everything balanced back there.
Research Division</strong> Otherwise said in plain English you just can't push a lot of assets down without also pushing the right amount of debt down so that the current credit remains strong? Fair enough.
Research Division</strong> Is that right? Yes fair enough.
Research Division</strong> To circle back to Paul's question I do think it's -- can you comment a little more on what type of metrics you use to measure customer -- underlying customer demand as it pertains to the weather versus energy efficiency and things because in other regions like for instance Arizona which is also a state recovering from a housing bust they also saw a big pullback in what they consider to be normalized -- weather normalized demand very similar to what you're talking about.
Can talk about the type of metrics you use to try to get at that and how confident you are that they sort of capture that or what they might be missing? Well I'll do my best.
I think the real challenge here is that we don't have any metrics that we can really look at on a short-term basis that drill in on this problem.
And that's one of the reasons why we many times said in the past that any one quarter we should expect to see weather adjusted usage per customer move around quite a bit.
So even in a period now going back several years when on average underlying usage was growing at about 1 percentage point per year.
We would still see individual quarters where it didn't grow at all and other quarters where it grew at 1.5% or 2%.
So those sort of quarter-to-quarter things very hard for us to sort out.
So to the core of the question longer-term you can look at -- the basic thing you have is the uses usage pattern by segments of customers.
And so part of what's going on here is the customer mix is changing and the usage patterns of the customers within the different segments in that mix also appear to be changing a little bit.
In short we have seen over the last few years much stronger recovery in residential piece and in the small end of the commercial segment and much weaker recovery if any in the large commercial piece.
So we're really in terms of metrics we actually look more to the trends at the segment level.
Our next question comes from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> As you look out in the last quarter in terms of developments on yield co.
I wonder if you could just talk at a high level as you think about the cost to capital of these approaches to investors that are seeking cash flow.
Not in detail but just holistically as you think about cost to capital right investor base et cetera just how you think about that relative to within NextEra? Sure.
I'll take a crack at that.
I think I'm going end-up repeating things that we probably said on the last call I said at one of the conferences.
To me this is a question about whether there is a segment of investors who simply value a cash flow stream with particular characteristics differently from the way that the rest of the investor base does.
And here in particular we're talking about a cash flow stream that has high current income relatively stable but also with strong and visible growth.
I think if you look at the yield co.
structures that have been introduced so far that element of significant predictable growth has been an important distinguisher of how they trade.
So to me that indicates that to the extent there is a discrete investor segment here it's 1 that both likes the solidity of current income but also is willing to pay for visibility into a meaningful growth pattern.
So that I think what you're trying to do is structure a vehicle that appeals to that particular segment and then the real core question is how big is that segment how much more is it willing to pay for the cash flow stream than other investors and is that a transient phenomenon or one that is going to be around for a while? So that's kind of the framework that we think about I'm sure Jim and others have slightly different versions but that's how I think about it.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And within the approach to yield co.
one thing that investors sometimes think about is the economic participation of the parent that is incentive payments back to the parent as return levels are reached.
I know it's a little bit more specific but I know that goal is obviously always to maximize the value of NextEra to shareholders.
As you all think about potential participation of the parents in returns at whatever yield co.
could be contemplated is that something that you are generally or positively disposed towards because you want that -- the parent growth and parent participation? Byrd it's certainly yet another of the things which we have to consider.
I guess the main point I will make there is it does seem to be important that you -- to the extent you can you create alignment of interests between the 2 sets of investors and one of our concerns is not getting a situation where the interests are divergent.
And in that sense the kind of incentive structures that you're talking about I think can play an important role if they are designed correctly.
But if it's an important aspect the specifics of how they're designed are important.
But I see them as mostly about aligning interest.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of items.
One on the O&amp;M cost reduction the $200 million to $250 million.
Is that incremental -- I assume that's the main driver for keeping nominal O&amp;M flat and that there couldn't be kind of a potential down -- actual downward trajectory in O&amp;M being driven off of that? A couple of comments on that.
On a number of occasions I think at one of the conferences in September I kind of tried to frame it on the FPL side by saying that last year we had about $1.5 billion of non-fuel O&amp;M.
If you just extrapolated at a traditional 2.5% a year growth rate what we have been running in the last few years out to 2016 you would've found that to attain the goal of keeping nominal O&amp;M flat that would've translated to about $150 million a year run rate reduction.
And so that's kind of the scope of the challenge.
Now the $200 million to $250 million obviously includes Energy Resources and other parts of the business.
But it's why we feel pretty comfortable that we have line of sight on the actions that will be necessary to give us a decent shot at that goal of keeping that O&amp;M flat in nominal terms.
Now indirect answer to your question we certainly haven't -- we're not saying this is all that there is going to be.
In fact one of the important things coming out of Project Momentum is a commitment on going further searches for improvement.
So this is where we are today.
We've got a lot of work to do to make sure we deliver on that.
But we're certainly not going to treat that as that's the only thing that it could possibly be.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And 1 or 2 other questions unrelated on the O&amp;M side.
When you commented on the 5% to 7% long-term EPS growth are you now including items like the pipeline in that number or is that still outside of that number? No.
The 5% to 7% is adjusted EPS growth at the enterprise level.
So it's inclusive of everything.
And certainly when we share that range in the March investor conference we discussed the pipeline as a potential project in the incremental investment category.
So clearly it was included in that and it certainly remains so.
Research Division</strong> And finally the earnings power...
Michael this is Jim.
I just wanted to add to that.
Given the combination of the progress we've made on Project Momentum along with the progress we've made in our development efforts on both sides of the business I said this in September I'll say it again now.
I will be very disappointed if -- we have a lot of executions still left to do over the next 3 years but I'll be very disappointed if we don't earn at the top end to that range through 2016 i.e.
what I have the teams focused on is earning $6 in 2016.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on the pipeline just I want to think about the earnings power.
Do you actually accrue AFUDC during the construction of the pipeline and then that kind of converts to cash once it comes online in late 2017? Yes.
And Michael it's possible in response to your first question what you may have been thinking about is where the pipeline shows up in the segment discussion in our forward-looking statements.
This does get a little bit more complicated but everything that we discussed to date has had the potential contribution from the pipeline clustered in the FPL segment.
Although we have also indicated that those are not strictly FPL assets.
So that may be part of the confusion.
Our next question comes from Brian Chin with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Are there any commitments that you can make with regards to the dividend as it relates to your decision about whether to do a yield co.
or not? Well first of all the answer is no.
Dividend obviously is a board decision.
But I'm not quite sure I'm following the interrelationship between the dividend and the yield co.
in your mind.
Research Division</strong> Well when we think about yield co.
mechanism there's significant amount of cash that does come from NextEra Energy Resources that currently helps go towards the parent that helps go towards funding a variety of different activities within the NextEra structure.
In the event that you were to drop down any of those assets into a separate yield co.
Mechanism I'm just wondering whether that might have an effect on whether you might want to think about your dividend for NextEra shares.
Is there a separation of that dividend? Or is there a commitment that you can that the yield co.
would not have any impact on the dividend? Just trying to get a sense of how you think about that.
Okay.
I think I would have to think a little further about the question.
I guess my initial reaction is at least at this stage I don't see the yield co.
necessarily leading to any fundamental change in the dividend policy again the dividend policy is a matter for the board to decide and any specific implementation within that policy is also a matter for the board to decide.
Our next question comes from Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask.
You mentioned -- if I heard correctly that the ability of Florida Power &amp; Light to rely [indiscernible] ROEs through 2016 was predicated on certain assumptions regarding load growth and you gave those numbers but I'm not sure I heard them correctly I wonder if I can ask you to repeat them and perhaps break them down into their various components.
Yes.
In terms of volume growth out through the 2016 period the average is about -- the expectations average is about 1.5% to 2%.
The vast majority of which is coming from customer growth.
Essentially what we do for the forecast there is take the -- I believe it's the University of Florida population projections and then factor them down to implications for customer growth.
So probably 3 quarters of the growth in the base expectations is coming from customer growth but the total volume growth expectation is about 1.5% to 2% per year.
So call it 1% to 1.5% customers and maybe another 0.5% per year.
And the usage side -- the usage piece just to remind folks is really still sort of cyclical economic recovery i.e.
getting back towards the average usage per customer level that we saw in 2007 2008.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So do you happen to have symptom to have the underlying population growth assumption and the usage assumption that go into the 1.5% to 2%? Take the population growth of call it 1.3% 1.4% and maybe 1.5% so the rest is the usage piece.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you see usage rising sort of marginally maybe a 0.25% or 0.5% per year as it reverts in your view to the 2007 levels and then the ongoing population growth.
And have you told that there were reason to modify that assumption? That just strikes to me as optimistic given trends around the country and recent experience in the service territory.
A couple of comments here.
First of all baked into that usage value is as I think I'd indicated earlier an assumption of about a negative 1% a year impact the ongoing effect of efficiency standards as capital stock rolls through.
In terms of the other part of your question obviously people can judge for themselves whether it's optimistic or pessimistic.
It's actually pretty consistent with what we have been running for the last year and a half or so.
Actually usage growth has been little stronger than that over that period.
So this quarter is a little bit of a pullback from what we have seen.
And that's why I was indicating earlier that we just need to have a little more time to see whether that's the start of a new trend or whether it's just a short-term blip.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Quickly on the yield co.
NRG Energy appears to have acquired some wind and gas assets from the Edison Mission Energy portfolio to contribute to its yield co.
Are those assets that you looked at and if so can you tell us why you decided not to pursue? I can't comment on specific assets.
All I can say is as I've said in the past that we look at a lot of different things particularly in the renewable space.
Our next question comes from Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
I actually hate asking questions about yield co.
again but putting it into more of a context so you're saying that you see about 2 000 or up to 2 000 of existing assets that will qualify for a yield co.
structure and about 1 200 of assets currently under development.
I mean this is such a small portion of your total portfolio.
I mean if this really worth pursuing a public yield co.
structure given the cost associated with such a process? Well I think the only answer I can give you to that is we don't know.
That's why we are continuing to study it.
But obviously the fact that we are continuing to study it suggests that we think it could potentially be significant.
I think if you look at the potential multiple expansion on certain types of assets depending on what you believe about how they're implicitly valued today you can still scale that up and have a meaningful amount in terms of shareholder value creation.
So certainly we're going to try and find opportunities like that but we just don't know at the moment.
Jim is going to comment as well.
And Angie I think the thing to think about is that's over a period of years that we've laid out somewhere in the order through the next 3 to 4 years.
Effectively all of our renewable assets -- contractor renewable assets ultimately would -- you could conceptually think about being able to be in the yield co.
once the project financing the tax equity and the PTC lives rolled off.
So I think it's not right to think about this being all of it it's all of it that we can think about in the period of the next 3 to 4 years.
How about adding the gas pipeline assets to that structure the future gas pipelines? I don't think we really thought about that at this stage.
And that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Julie Holmes for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us and if anyone wasn't able to get through on the call we could follow-up with you separately.
Thank you.
And that concludes today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the NextEra Energy Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Julie Holmes.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Dana.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are Jim Robo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Eric Silagy President of Florida Power &amp; Light Company.
Moray will provide an overview of our results and our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making forward-looking statements during this call based on current expectations and assumptions which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release and the comments made during this conference call in the risk factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duties to update any forward-looking statements.
Today's presentation also includes references to adjusted earnings which are non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying today's presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Julie and good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered strong financial results in 2013 while continuing to execute on the objectives we shared with you at our investor conference in March.
At FPL we continue to execute on our large construction projects focused on productivity and cost effectiveness and identified and made substantial progress on our incremental capital investment opportunities.
Achieving these objectives will help us to continue to deliver the best customer value in the state and one of the best in the nation.
Also at FPL the Florida Public Service Commission gave its approval for the natural gas transportation capacity contracts that will provide a commercial basis for a new third pipeline into the state which ultimately will benefit all Floridians.
This is an essential first step to enable Sabal Trail Transmission and Florida Southeast Connection pipeline projects to move towards construction.
At Energy Resources we continue to execute on our backlog in U.S.
and Canadian wind projects and met our milestones for the development of our U.S.
solar portfolio.
We also remain focused on further developing our U.S.
wind portfolio and securing incremental solar opportunities.
In our Transmission business we commissioned the Lone Star Transmission line during the first quarter on time and under budget.
As we discussed last quarter we were awarded development rights by the Ontario Energy Board to develop the East-West Tie Line Transmission Project with our partners Enbridge and Borealis and we continue to pursue a number of other transmission opportunities in North America.
Overall 2013 was a very strong year that positions us well for 2014 and beyond.
At FPL our strategy is founded on offering the best customer value in the state and on finding ways to improve our value delivery over time.
Consistent with our strategy we continue to deploy capital that improves productivity and leads to cost savings that will benefit our customers and help keep rates low for the long term.
In 2013 we invested approximately $2.9 billion at FPL with approximately $700 million of this associated with our pre-modernizations.
Our Cape Canaveral modernization entered service in April ahead of schedule and more than $100 million under budget.
The Riviera Beach modernization is on budget and slightly ahead of schedule and we expect this new efficient plant to enter service in the second quarter.
We continue to expect to bring a modernized Port Everglades plant into service in mid-2016.
As a reminder FPL settlement agreement provides the base rate increases to recover the capital and operating costs in the modernizations at Cape Canaveral Riviera Beach and Port Everglades as the plants enter service.
Together we estimate that the 3 modernized plants will provide customer benefits and more than $1 billion over their operational lifetimes.
Early in the year we successfully completed the extended power upgrades at our 4 nuclear units which added more than 500 megawatts of clean emissions free energy to our fleet.
We also completed the installation of approximately 4.5 million smart meters in our service territory which is part of our Energy Smart Florida program and began to realize benefits from the more reliable and efficient infrastructure that the program helps enable.
Our day-to-day system reliability remains in the top quartile nationwide and our customer satisfaction scores increased in 2013.
At Energy Resources we continue to execute on our backlog and pursue additional contracted renewable development opportunities.
As we noted during the fourth quarter earnings call last year we anticipated 2013 would be a down year for new wind installations compared to our record year in 2012 but we remain encouraged as we move into 2014 and 2015.
In addition to the 1 175 megawatts of new wind projects that we had previously announced we signed contracts of 250 megawatts of projects since our last earnings call bringing our total U.S.
wind development program for 2013 through 2015 to 1 425 megawatts.
Of this total we commissioned 250 megawatts during 2013 all in the fourth quarter.
Based on everything we see at the moment we believe our total of 2013 to 2015 U.S.
wind program could be 2 000 to 2 500 megawatts.
In Canada we brought roughly 125 megawatts into service during 2013 and expect the remaining 466 megawatts in our backlog to enter service by the end of 2015 with the majority expected to come into service in 2014.
You may recall that as of the March investor conference last year our backlog of contracted U.S.
solar projects consisted of roughly 800 megawatts.
Of that backlog both Genesis and Desert Sunlight were partially commissioned during the fourth quarter with 280 megawatts entering service between the 2 projects.
We also completed our 20-megawatt Mountain View project earlier this month.
The remaining 245 megawatts in Genesis and Desert Sunlight are expected to enter service in 2014 and our 250 megawatts McCoy project is progressing on schedule and is expected to come into service in 2015 and 2016.
We had a successful year meeting our objectives for new U.S.
solar development and signed contracts for 290 megawatts of projects which are expected to come into service by the end of 2016.
The balance of our contracted U.S.
solar backlog is now 785 megawatts.
Let me now walk through our results for the quarter and the full year.
We will begin with results at FPL and then discuss Energy Resources and the consolidated numbers.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 FPL reported net income of $248 million or $0.57 per share down $0.04 per share year-over-year.
For the full year FPL reported net income of $1.35 billion or $3.16 per share up $0.20 per share versus 2012.
As a reminder our results include the transition costs associated with Project Momentum that I spoke about last quarter.
This includes the negative impact of roughly $0.03 in the quarter and approximately $0.07 for the full year.
2013 marked another year of continued investment in infrastructure projects which helped improve our overall customer value proposition and was also the largest driver of our growth in contribution to earnings per share.
We saw a decline in clause contribution to earnings per share as the completed nuclear upgrade projects were moved from clause to base rates with only a minor impact on net income.
As I noted earlier FPL's capital expenditures were approximately $2.9 billion.
And as a result our regulatory capital employed grew 10.4% year-over-year and this translated to net income growth of 8.8%.
Our reported ROE for regulatory purposes was 10.96%.
This includes the impact of the Project Momentum transition costs.
Absent these costs regulatory ROE for the year would have been 11.25%.
As we noted last quarter under the current rate agreement we record reserved amortization entries to achieve a predetermined regulatory ROE for each period in this case the 11.25% that I just mentioned excluding special charges such as the Project Momentum transition costs.
During the quarter we reversed $54 million of reserve amortization recorded earlier in the year in order to achieve this predetermined ROE.
For the full year we amortized $155 million and have roughly $245 million remaining.
This leaves us in a slightly better position than we had anticipated at the beginning of the year.
You will recall that we had always expected 2013 to require the use of more reserve amortization than any of the remaining years of the agreement.
The Florida economy continues to strengthen and most of the indicators we track are improving.
Florida's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in December was 6.2% which was down once again versus the prior month down 1.7 percentage points since December 2012 and down 5.2 percentage points from the all-time high of 11.4% at nearly 4 years ago.
This is now the state's lowest unemployment rate since June 2008.
The number of jobs in Florida was up 192 000 compared to a year earlier and December was the 41st consecutive month with positive job growth in Florida following more than 3 years of job losses.
Florida's private sector continues to drive the state's job growth and more than 462 000 private sector jobs have been added since December 2010.
The housing market in Florida also continues to show signs of resiliency.
Housing permits in Florida jumped 25% over last November versus a U.S.
gain of 8% and mortgage delinquency rates and the inventory of existing homes in Florida continue to decline.
The Case-Shiller Index for South Florida shows home prices up 16% from the prior year.
Other data released in 2013 suggest that Florida once again has a very attractive business climate compared to many other states.
The U.S.
Census Bureau now estimates that Florida's population increased by more than 230 000 people over the 12-month period that ended July 1 of last year and many analysts now project that Florida will pass New York as America's third largest state sometime in 2014.
Overall Florida's economy is progressing well and is poised for further growth.
As we discussed throughout the year we continue to see our customer metrics at FPL improve moderately.
Underlying usage per customer increased 1.0% compared to the same quarter last year.
For the full year underlying usage per customer grew 0.4% compared to 2012.
We expect long-term usage growth of approximately 0.5% net of the impacted efficiency and conservation programs through the period of the rate agreement.
Another encouraging development during the quarter was a decrease in the percentage of low usage customers the 12-month average of the low-usage percentage has fallen to 8.2% its lowest level since December 2007.
The number of inactive accounts has also continued to decline reaching its lowest level since 2005.
During the fourth quarter we also saw the largest increase in customers since late 2007 with approximately 80 000 more customers than in the comparable quarter of 2012 representing an increase of 1.7%.
While this is clearly positive roughly half of the increase can be attributable to the roll out of our remote connect and disconnect capability enabled by our smart meter program that we highlighted on our third quarter call.
These new customers which are disproportionately low-usage and residential have a lower impact on our sales.
We estimate that customer growth accounted for about 0.8% increase in sales in the fourth quarter and 0.6% for the full year.
Overall we are seeing continued improvement in our customer data and we continue to believe that Florida will experience above-average growth over the long term.
Turning to our incremental development efforts.
We have several updates to share regarding our progress.
FPL's storm hardening plan was approved by the Florida Public Service Commission in November and the incremental reliability investments we are making to strengthen the system remain on track.
Excluding our major generation capital projects we plan to invest approximately $7.8 billion to $8.3 billion over the 2013 to 2016 period in our hardening and reliability efforts as well as all our other infrastructure investments.
This also includes fuel for our 4 Florida nuclear units.
During the quarter and following further discussion with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection FPL withdrew its petition for the peaker upgrade project.
We are currently working with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection to perform additional emissions monitoring to measure our existing peakers impact on local air quality.
We expect to file a new petition and supporting testimony once we have a clearer idea of the scope of upgrades that will be required.
The monitoring could extend up to 1 year and while it is too early to comment on the scope or timing of the project we believe the ultimate solution may require us to deploy less capital than we had originally anticipated.
The Florida pipeline which includes NextEra Energy's minority interest in the Sabal Trail Transmission joint venture and our wholly owned subsidiary Florida Southeast Connection continues to move through the regulatory process.
The PSC's approval of the contract is now final.
FERC approval is expected sometime in 2015 and construction is anticipated to be completed in mid-2017.
Looking forward financial results from the pipeline projects will be reported as part of our Corporate &amp; Other business segment and so in future earnings releases we will discuss developments in the Corporate &amp; Other section.
Let me turn now to Energy Resources which reported fourth quarter 2013 GAAP earnings of $85 million or $0.20 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter were $173 million or $0.40 per share.
Energy Resources contribution to adjusted earnings in the fourth quarter decreased $0.02 from last year with greater contributions from new investments in gas infrastructure being slightly more than offset by corporate G&amp;A and existing assets.
All other effects were minor.
For the full year 2013 Energy Resources reported GAAP earnings of $556 million or $1.30 per share.
Adjusted earnings were $780 million or $1.83 per share up $0.17 or 10% from the prior year.
As we discussed on our fourth quarter 2012 call we expected to see growth return in 2013 as some of the headwinds experienced in 2012 subsided and our new investments contributed meaningfully to earnings and so it proved.
For the full year 2013 the $0.17 increase in adjusted EPS was driven by several factors.
Contributions from our new investments added $0.31 with $0.04 coming from an increase in CITCs.
We elected CITCs for roughly 280 megawatts of solar projects in 2013 compared to approximately 455 megawatts of wind projects in 2012.
The greater capital cost of solar projects accounts for the increase from 2012 to 2013.
Contribution from gas infrastructure increased $0.04 over the prior year primarily as a result of additional production.
These positives were offset by increased corporate G&amp;A and other costs of $0.12 of which $0.03 for transition costs associated with Project Momentum.
Lower contributions from existing investments in 2013 negatively affected the comparison to last year by $0.03.
All other effects were minor.
Looking forward we expect to elect CITCs on roughly 265 megawatts of new solar generation in 2014.
As we did last year we have included a summary in the appendix of the presentation that compares our realized equivalent EBITDA to the ranges we provided in the third quarter of 2012.
Generally speaking we came in within the ranges we had anticipated.
During the year we placed approximately 375 megawatts of wind into service.
We also reached production levels of nearly 30 million megawatt hours during 2013 the highest level in company history.
We estimate that overall wind resource was a couple of points below the long-term average.
Of the roughly 30 million megawatt hours of production approximately 60% were eligible for PTCs.
The remainder represents output from projects on which we had elected CITCs projects that have passed their 10-year window of eligibility for PTCs or Canadian projects.
Nearly 50% of the PTCs generated were allocated to investors under the differential membership interest of tax equity partnerships we have entered into that allow us to monetize the tax benefits from our renewables projects more efficiently.
As shown on the accompanying slide the percentage of PTCs allocated to investors grew in 2013 and we expect that proportion to continue to grow to between 55% and 60% in 2014 as we see the full year impact of our 2013 tax equity partnerships flow through.
Looking at the company on a consolidated basis.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $327 million or $0.75 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2013 fourth quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $414 million and $0.95 respectively.
For the full year 2013 the company's GAAP net income was $1.9 billion or $4.47 per share.
Adjusted earnings were approximately $2.1 billion or $4.97 per share.
The Corporate &amp; Other segment improved slightly relative to 2012 as earnings from our Lone Star business increased but were offset by residual interest in taxes.
For the full year 2013 on an adjusted basis the Corporate &amp; Other segment was up $0.03 from 2012 driven by growth in the regulated transmission segment.
In 2014 we expect annual contribution to earnings from this segment to improve modestly.
2013 marked another year of significant capital investment for both FPL and Energy Resources exceeding our internally generated cash flows by about $1 billion.
Our treasury team executed on approximately $7 billion worth of financing transactions across a wide range of capital sources including refinancing and various capital optimization opportunities.
These were designed to meet our capital needs while also supporting our balance sheet and credit strength which are central to our business strategies.
In addition to a variety of conventional debt issuances we continue to make use of project debt to support growth at Energy Resources and we also sold additional differential membership interests to efficiently utilize tax credits generated by new wind projects.
We also issued $500 million of equity units to ensure we have the equity support needed during this transitional period of high capital expenditures.
These will convert to straight common equity in 2016 at which time they will be integrated into our ongoing financing program.
As we indicated on our third quarter earnings call our equity needs are dependent on our success in firming up incremental investment opportunities that we outlined at our March investor conference.
We expected to need to issue at least $1 billion in equity before the end of 2014 to achieve our target credit metrics.
During the quarter we entered into transactions to issue approximately $1 billion in equity.
And when considering our current capital expenditure program our target credit metrics remain on track.
As a reminder our growth in cash flow naturally picks up as our large construction projects enter service so additional equity needs from hereon will primarily depend on whether or not we see additional incremental capital expenditures that affect 2014 meaningfully.
In light of the progress made against our execution objectives we continue to be comfortable with the 2014 adjusted EPS expectations we shared with you last spring at $5.05 to $5.45 per share.
And for the longer-term outlook we continue to see adjusted EPS growing at a compound annual growth rate of 5% to 7% through 2016 off a 2012 base.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
In the appendix we've provided a number of sensitivities around our 2014 expectations.
We expect the majority of the adjusted EPS growth in 2014 to come in the second half of the year and the fourth quarter comparison should be particularly strong given the impact of Project Momentum transition costs in the fourth quarter of 2013.
While we have already begun to see significant benefits from Project Momentum we expect these to continue to increase as we go through the year making for stronger growth comparisons in the second half of the year.
In addition we expect the first quarter for Energy Resources to be challenged by the difficult market conditions we're seeing so far this year in the mid-Atlantic region caused by extremely cold weather and limitations on natural gas supply.
This will likely have a negative impact on any business including our full requirements portfolio in the Northeast with fixed price load obligations.
While some elements of our portfolio have benefited from these conditions we expect the full requirements business in the Northeast to underperform under these extreme conditions.
For the full year 2014 at Energy Resources we expect somewhat lower growth in adjusted earnings than we enjoyed in 2013.
While we expect continued strong contributions from new contracted renewables projects both solar and wind we expect the existing portfolio will be down year-over-year as we have 4 nuclear refueling outages scheduled as well as the ongoing impact of PTC roll-offs.
In addition we expect interest expense to be higher not only because of a larger capital base but also because of the impact of higher rates.
Finally at FPL growth in the wholesale segment should be an important driver of growth overall in 2014 but variability around wholesale load will consequently become a source of variability for FPL earnings as well.
With regard to the longer-term outlook we continue to see the 5% to 7% range through 2016 translating to an expected adjusted earnings per share range of $5.50 to $6 as reasonable.
However 2016 is still a long way off and many factors could change our expectations.
Since the investor conference last March we've seen many favorable developments some of which have clearly moved our 2016 expectations up within the broad range we have outlined.
On the other hand we're also seeing some negative developments such as rising interest rates which must temper our expectations.
And many of the projects on which we have made progress will drive earnings in 2017 and beyond more than 2016.
Overall we continue to believe the $5.50 to $6 range is reasonable given all the data we have at the moment and we are working hard to ensure we are as high as possible within that range.
Over the past months we have continued our evaluation of ways to efficiently recycle capital invested in Energy Resources projects including so-called yieldco structures.
While we are not yet at a point of making a decision we can share with you a few thoughts.
Many of you who have volunteered your thoughts on the impact that forming a yieldco might have on NextEra and we thank you for your input which we consider seriously.
We've also explored further a range of possible private transactions including structures analogous to a public yieldco.
As a result there are 5 general points which we can emphasize.
First we are committed to the general policy of recycling capital both to promote efficient capital utilization and to maintain an appropriate portfolio balance.
We expect to concentrate on deploying capital where we believe we have the potential to create value typically though not necessarily in the earliest stages of project development and operations.
And we expect to reduce capital investment in areas where we believe we have optimized project structure and operations and/or where others may have lower capital costs.
Typically though not necessarily projects that are more mature in their operations and life cycle position.
Second in executing this policy of recycling capital we will continue to be opportunistic trying to find what we believe are the best structure and the best markets for each situation as it emerges.
Even if we pursue a more general structure such as a yieldco we expect there will continue to be individual transactions outside this framework such as individual or small portfolio sales to specific investors as well as project financings and tax equity partnerships.
Third our continuing assessment over the past few weeks suggest to us that the public form of yieldco has some clear advantages over the private forms we have also been considering.
In particular we have come to believe that valuation levels are likely to be lower for the private format at least in today's economic environment and that there is less likelihood that those valuation levels will be reflected back on the stock of sponsor the so-called readthrough effect.
Of course these are our considered judgments for there is no analytical way to be sure and there could be no guarantee that we are right.
Based on these and other considerations however we think it is unlikely that we will pursue a private version.
Fourth as we have previously said our focus is on sustained value creation for our shareholders.
The mere fact that public yieldco vehicles may trade well in today's environment is not in itself a sufficient argument to go forward with one.
We recognize that the question of value creation is ultimately one of judgment but we want to be sure that when we reach a judgment it is based on a best information available.
Fifth as we have also previously stated were we to pursue a public yieldco we would want to be sure that it was structured so it not negatively to impact our corporate credit position which we continue to view as an important element in our competitive strategy at Energy Resources.
Again however I need to emphasize that we have made no decision one way or the other.
We continue to examine a wide range of practical issues including structuring tax governance portfolio composition interaction with existing financing arrangements and ongoing reporting and compliance issues.
Finally while we will continue to take a deliberate approach to resolving the questions we have and reaching a considered judgment we hope to be in a position to give you a clearer assessment before the end of the second quarter.
Before taking your questions let me conclude with a summary of our key areas of focus for 2014.
At FPL our focus will continue to be on excellence in execution.
We will strive to deliver the best value in the state to our customers and we will continue with the execution of our major capital initiatives including the 2 remaining modernizations our storm hardening program and our system reliability initiatives.
We will also seek to finalize our determination of the upgrades that will be needed for our peaking facilities to meet future environmental standards.
Supporting our strategy at FPL we will be pursuing the successful development of the Florida Southeast Connection and Sabal Trail pipeline projects with emphasis on being in a position for timely receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals.
At Energy Resources we will continue to focus on excellence in day-to-day operations and we will continue to advance the development of our industry-leading portfolio of contracted renewables projects.
In particular we will be looking to extend our strong backlog of projects into 2015 and beyond.
And at NextEra Energy Transmission we will be focused on reliable operations and successful development of new project opportunities.
Across all our businesses we will have a special focus on implementing the many initiatives that emerged from Project Momentum a competitively strong cost position continues to be an underpinning of our strategies across all businesses.
At the Corporate level we will seek to finance our activities in a way that supports our strong credit position and ensures that our credit metrics continue to improve on the part we have laid out for you.
And with that we will now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Dan Eggers at Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Before we get run over on the yieldco conversation I guess if you could just talk a little bit about the wind portfolio and the difference between expected generation additions and what you have under contract and when do you think those 2 numbers merge into a final decided number for '14 '15? Well if we go back to the investor conference last year.
That time we were talking about expectations for U.S.
wind program for 2013 and 2014 with a range of 500 to 1 500.
So what's happened since then really is in particular with the IRS clarification of some of the language around eligibility for that PTC we can clearly see a path to extend that program from 2013 2014 to 2013 through 2015.
So based on that and what we're seeing in the marketplace we've revised upwards our view of the total portfolio opportunities so that's the 2 000 to 2 500.
And as you can see from the numbers we're close to 1 500 already in the backlog so that means we see the potential for another 500 to 1 000 of projects that could be contracted from here on.
The timing of that will play out over the course of the year since at this point we're really thinking of it as a program through 2015.
Anything that's going to come in service before the end of 2015 we really are going to have to have the contracting piece wrapped up by close to the end of this year.
So we should know a lot more about where we are by the end of this year.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just kind of on the yieldco thanks for giving more detail on the thought process.
But when you look at some of the decision points you have setting out there what do you need to get comfortable with the impact on the credit ratings for the corporate? Is that an agency's conversation and a modeling conversation on your side? And then I guess when you think about sustained value creation in a public equity what do you need to see to get comfortable whether that's a durable opportunity or not? All right.
Well I guess first I just kind of repeat the list in the prepared remarks.
I mean we're still working through a lot of the practical issues structuring tax governance composition of portfolio all of those kinds of things.
Certainly the credit impact is very important to us.
That's a function both of modeling and obviously of conversations and feedback with the agencies.
I'm sure many of you are aware that Moody's put out a general piece on the subject of yieldco which essentially says that the impact on credit depends and so we want to push further to make sure we understand exactly what that dependence looks like so it's going to be a variety of things like that.
On the question of the sustained value creation again as I mentioned in the prepared remarks ultimately that comes down to a judgment call.
I think we clearly have some evidence just through the passage of time that helps provide us some input on that.
But that's just something that we're going to have to reach a point of comfort with on a judgmental basis and we're not at that point yet.
Research Division</strong> And I guess the last one.
As you guys think about NextEra as a whole how comfortable is the board with the idea of perspectively changing the rate of growth for the consolidated company from 5% to 7% to something else if you were to allocate more growth to the yieldco design? Well I think that that really the answer to that has really subsumed in the overall question of is there a value creation opportunity for NextEra Energy shareholders if the trade up in growth that you're talking about ultimately run the results in greater value for our shareholders and I think that's clearly a very positive factor.
We'll go next to Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could just talk broadly about renewable economics that you're seeing in terms of improvements in the technology kind of the PPA levels in general that you're seeing.
If you could just talk sort of holistically about the competitive dynamic for renewables as you're seeing do you see the technology improvements helping to extend that market? How are the competitive dynamics out there? A couple of general comments and I'll ask Armando to expand.
But just as a reminder for folks we've seen very substantial improvements in wind economics driven by technology larger machines taller towers longer blades to the point where as I think most people know in a strong wind regime it's possible to sign a long-term PPA with prices in with a 2 panels on them and still get acceptable returns.
So in many parts of the country today including the impact of the PTC wind is the most economic form of new energy generation.
We've also seen significant improvement on the solar side to PV with panel prices coming down but solar is a much more limited market focused on primarily the Desert Southwest and a few other areas.
So that's been the general trend.
Relative to that general trend I wouldn't say that in the last 6 to 9 months there's been any major departure.
But let me ask Armando now to comment on how that's playing out in market dynamics.
Yes I'd agree obviously with all of that.
The couple points I would add is interestingly enough I think we've talked about this before in some areas of the country we are seeing where solar is crowding out wind.
The economics of solar have clearly improved across the board.
It's not just the overall cost of the panel or the balance of the plant but it's also small changes in efficiency.
So although wind economics have clearly improved in some areas of the countries primarily the west and the southwest it's clear that solar is a better alternative.
That's the first point I'd make.
The second point I'd make is a couple of years ago we've talked about seeing more RFPs on the solar side which we thought was a clear positive.
We continue to see that.
We continue to see that even in states that don't have requirements -- renewable portfolio standards for solar.
So we were encouraged by that.
We're seeing them all the way up through the Canada border and all the way down to Mexico.
So I think that's a real positive for solar that we will continue to see.
Research Division</strong> Well that's helpful.
Then just as a follow-up on the yieldco.
For a public option I know one of your objectives has been to think about aligning incentives ensuring that there is an alignment there.
When you think about aligning incentives would -- an approach where there are incentive payments along the lines what we see in the world of MLPs be something that could be a tool to achieve that? Potentially that's certainly a whole area that we're looking at and we think it's important that there be as close an alignment of interests as possible.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So incentive payments in general that's an area that you're focused on and thinking about that? Yes.
We're certainly studying how that has worked out in the MLP space is there a way of incorporating some of those elements into different structures all of those kinds of things yes.
And we'll go next to Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first -- hitting the yieldco first off.
What is it about end of second quarter? Is there something you're waiting for in particular? I just wanted to get a little bit more of a sense as to data points you might be looking for the market to get -- to make this decision? And when it comes to valuation discrepancy that you commented on of late is it something that you see in the public market or is it something in the private market that is really driving the discrepancy in the valuations in your mind? Just to make it a little clearer.
The answer to the second question is really based on the market feedback that we've been observing on both sides over the last few months.
So again I want to stress that that's a judgment call because obviously unless you went out with a particular structure hypothetically in two parallel universes 1 public and 1 private you'll never really know.
But that's what we are seeing based on our reading of the market data.
On the bigger question of the timing I appreciate that we are being frustrating to a number of folks out there there's no one particular thing in the outside world that I can point you to like this is more a function of the ongoing process that we are working through.
I think I've mentioned to a number of folks that I've met with over the past 6 months that it seems like every session we have with our team internally they answer a series of questions that we have and that turns to [ph] more questions.
So we're continuing to work methodically through questions but I do think that we will be in a position to give you an update by the end of the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then looking at the supply business obviously you tweaked '14 expectations.
How do you think about that in '15 onwards? Is this kind of a one-time impact from the first quarter's event or should we kind of structurally think about revising expectations from that segment? Well we're going to have to see.
We'll just have to see how the quarter actually plays out.
I mean there's a big difference between what's happening or what's been happening in NEPOOL versus what's been happening in PJM obviously.
And so in part what the future looks like depends upon how rapidly the gas transportation constraints open up in different parts of that region.
So clearly the dynamics of the business and the pricing of that business are going to change going forward but we'll have to see.
We're certainly not going to change our return expectations for that business so we will definitely expect to see higher pricing in the future.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just turning to the utility real quickly.
You've talked a little bit in the past about opportunities to add E&amp;P assets potentially within the portfolio to lock in pricing.
Where are you with respect to that? I would say that we are still in the very early days.
And just as a background for everybody after we worked through the opportunities to improve the efficiency of the generation fleet that made a huge impact on our fuel consumption and over the long term reduces our expected fuel bill which we passed through to the customer very substantially.
What remains is still a substantial portion of the bill and it is subject to volatility although we don't see gas prices going up to -- back up to the 2007 levels there's clearly volatility in there.
So it certainly seems to us that anything that we could do that would help lower long-term costs of that component and in particular to reduce its volatility will be highly valuable to our customers.
So that's really the motivation for thinking about E&amp;P reserves.
So we're still in the very early stages.
It's important to recognize that FPL is a very very large consumer of natural gas.
And so to have a meaningful impact that's beneficial that the customer can really see.
You've got to do a lot and we're probably not going to do anything on a large scale initially.
So if we do proceed down that part anything we do we will start on a small scale but I don't have any particular time frame in mind on that.
Research Division</strong> And then just quickly lastly in terms of the competitive dynamic with other yieldcos out there now are you seeing more of a cost of capital compression in some of the PPAs up there? What's the dynamic if you will? No we certainly haven't seen that so far that -- maybe that's a longer-term trend.
But it certainly hasn't been the case so far.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Could you give us a data point on what the current PTC-eligible project number ended up coming in at the end of the year in terms of meeting that 5%? I'm not sure I'm following your question Steve.
Could you...
Research Division</strong> The kind of amount of potential assets that will be able to get the PTC that expired meeting that kind of 5% threshold? Okay I get where you're going.
Yes it's significantly larger than the upper end of what we believe is reasonable given actual market conditions.
So we're not going to be constrained by the safe harboring issue.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I guess my other question and I apologize to beat on the yieldco but in terms of the kind of credit analysis you're doing could you just give us some sense of what you've heard or what the rating agencies have already said on the structure and potential impact on corporate credit? I think at this stage Steve I'm sorry to say that's been -- really the only thing I can say is the answer is it depends.
So we're not far enough along to know what the final structure or mix would be to make sure that it's still not negative to credit.
Now we'll go next to Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Guys two questions.
One on the boring side.
Just looking at the quarter and even at the year at O&amp;M at both NEER and at the Corporate level big year-over-year uptick so I assume NEER is tied to new projects.
But just any comments you may have to add onto that.
I'm sorry on the FPL side O&amp;M actually was down year-on-year.
Research Division</strong> Right NEER and Corporate.
I'm sorry NEER and Corporate okay.
On the NEER side it's really growth of the business.
We did put a little more into development expenditures particularly late in the year.
But there's nothing unusual going on there.
It's fundamentally growth in the business.
It's actually less than we expected it to be at the beginning of the year because we started to see some early benefits from Project Momentum.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a solar-related question.
You made a number of comments about the economics you and Armando about the economics of solar relative to the economics of wind.
Is there any interest in NextEra in terms of the rooftop solar business? If so what are the economics like when you look at it? How would you actually enter that business if you were to decide to do so? Well the short answer is yes there's an interest but let me be a little more clear when we say rooftop.
That covers a wide range of territory.
Sometime last year possibly in 2012 we authorized the team to go ahead and do some basic exploration of the I'll call it the distributed solar space.
The conclusion they came back with was that we don't see at least at this time an economic opportunity in the residential end of that space which is often what people think of when they say rooftop.
We do think there may be some opportunities in the C&amp;I space.
As you get towards particularly the largest C&amp;I customers those projects often tend to look not that different from a small utility scale project.
So we are currently exploring that area we acquired a small company that was already in that business and we have a little backlog of projects.
But at this stage I would say that's definitely in the category of a toe in the water and we have to see how that goes.
There's really -- at least at this stage there's only useful markets for that in areas where rates are high.
In Florida we have a very low rate structures so it's not such an economic incentive.
Research Division</strong> And finally on the supply the customer supply business or the retail supply business at NEER how should we think about the worst-case scenario? I mean we're expecting another couple of days of crazy weather here in the northeast.
We've had heat rates blow out we've had local gas prices at various northeastern gas hubs completely blow out.
You've had in prior quarters going back to issues in Texas a year or so ago and we've seen other companies like Reliant back in 2008 have some issues on the supply side in terms of just being caught short megawatt hours.
How should investors think about what kind of the bare case outcome would that be for that business for you? Well first of all just to say inherent in that business it obviously has a left tail so when you have extreme conditions of high load and high prices any portfolio like that is always going to underperform.
How bad could it be well obviously it depends upon how many days of extreme conditions you build into your anticipation.
I think we'd been reasonably conservative in what we've -- what we're looking at so far.
I don't think it's going to end up having a material impact on the year overall but it's clearly going to weigh in on the first quarter.
We'll go next to Shar Pourreza with Citi.
Research Division</strong> As you think about growing solar and emphasizing that part of the business more can you maybe comment on any potential impediments or bottlenecks to the tax equity markets? Are you seeing any bottlenecks? Or a little bit of color there would be great.
On the tax equity market I guess I would say that there is really about the same amount of capacity now than they have been for the last couple of years.
Not surprisingly we think that rates in that market are way too high and they really should come down very substantially.
But there hasn't been a great deal of change the last couple of years.
We also would certainly like it if there was more depth in the market.
But the reality is there's only a certain number of players.
So it's perfectly adequate for the kind of scale of activity that we have and that we anticipate for the future.
But like any other capital market you'd always like that to be more depth and lower prices.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just one quick follow-up.
As you think about potential public yieldcos can you maybe just give us a sense on how to think about recapturing of any of kind of an ITC or PTCs for qualified assets that could drop down into a yieldco? Well one of the sort of criteria for thinking about asset suitability for yieldco is really whether they are in the PTC generation phase because the way the yieldco vehicle would typically be structured it would not be able to take advantage of PTCs and therefore you would be better off -- in general this is a general statement might not always be true but in general retaining those at the sponsor level and utilizing PTCs in another way at that level.
So it's really a matter of which project becomes suitable for a yieldco.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just lastly as you think about doing a yieldco how much of your decision-making on whether to move forward or not is predicated on whether you see any movement in the MLP parity act? That's really an independent issue.
The decision-making that we're going through is looking at the vehicle or potential vehicles as they might exist today with today's tax law.
We'll go next to Brian Chin with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick point of clarification.
So you signaled that by the end of 2Q you will have made your decision.
Should we interpret that to mean that on the 2Q earnings call is when you'll announce something or are you retaining the flexibility going out something earlier than that? Just a little bit extra clarification on the timing.
Well to be clear we're not saying we will have necessarily made a decision by the end of the second quarter but we certainly expect to be in a much better position to give you our overall assessment.
So by that I mean by the quarterly earnings call could there be something beforehand if we arrive at a decision? Yes I suppose that's possible.
I just -- I'm certainly not going to commit to anything here.
We'll go next to Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Moray I think in your conference on -- your investor conference in March you forewarned us that NextEra could become a much more robust cash generator in the years ahead depending on the level of capital outlays.
And looking at your cash flow statement for the year that certainly seems have been the case.
Now I was hoping I might get you to talk about some of the largest drivers of the changes on the cash flow statement.
So for example I'd say that cash from operations is up by over $1 billion or 25% largely on a $1 billion increase in depreciation and amortization and deferred income taxes both of which were up by 50%.
Then on the other hand your CapEx or cash used in investment is down by almost $3 billion which is a decline of 30% with a net effect that your cash used in financing activities has reduced your borrowing requirement by about $3.8 billion or 75%.
So those are dramatic changes and I was just wondering if you might kind of take us through the highlights.
Sure.
I guess I'll just go back to some of the things that I'm sure people have forgotten but we've talked about in the March investor conference last year.
On the growth in the operating cash flow first let's focus on FPL.
We knew that we were entering a new rate agreement in 2013 and one of the key benefits of that was the reduction in the amount of surplus depreciation that we were going to need really the completion of noncash earnings into cash.
So with the initial base revenue increase and then the subsequent GBRA rate increases we're now getting real cash returns that are commensurate with the regulatory returns.
Not exactly equal but commensurate.
So we knew that that was going to drive significant growth on the FPL side.
On the Energy Resources side we had -- in 2012 we had just completed the 1 500 megawatts of U.S.
wind and so we knew that that was going to come into service and driving cash flow on that side.
So those -- and that continues going forward.
As the big new projects at Energy Resources come into service out of that construction phase they start to contribute to the growth in the operating cash flow.
On the CapEx side we knew that 2012 was going to be a peak year for CapEx.
We were right at the peak of the spending on the FPL side with the nuclear upgrades modernizations and ongoing infrastructure spending.
And of course we had not only 1 500 megawatts of U.S.
wind but spending on solar projects which were not yet anywhere near coming into service all of that concentrated in 2012.
So 2013 so that start to come down to hopefully more normal levels.
So those were both the principal dynamics that we have tried to focus people on last year.
And I'll just say they came in very much where we expect it.
So we're pretty much about where we expected to be on the operating cash flow pretty much where we expect it to be on the CapEx with one exception which is we have ended up accelerating on the Energy Resources side some of the capital spending.
We had some opportunities to negotiate some improved pricing on some equipment which led us to accelerating some capital spending and also because the development program has gone well.
So those are the main 2 dynamics.
And then as you noted that produces a huge swing in the free cash flow.
Of course we also did the equity -- both the equity unit but more importantly the $1 billion equity transaction the combination of $400 million of straight common and the $600 million of forward late last year so that contributed significantly too.
But it's a pretty dramatic swing and it's reflected obviously in the credit metrics from 2013 and we expect to see not to the same extent but a continuation of same general trends in 2014.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
That was just what I was hoping for.
Just one quick follow-up question.
Your decision to reverse a portion of the depreciation and amortization that you had taken in '13 and the fourth quarter does that stem primarily from more rapid than expected growth in volume sales or what was the driver of that decision? No.
To be clear just to reiterate it's directly driven off the policies that's maintaining a target ROE regulatory ROE.
The indirect driver that you're getting at actually was that we made quicker progress on the O&amp;M front coming out of Project Momentum than we had originally anticipated going into the year so -- and that's why we end up with a little bit more $245 million leftover at the end of the year.
Well I think at the end of last year we're anticipating we'd be somewhere around $200 million or $220 million.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Got it great.
Yes we're feeling very good about where we are on the cost side.
And we'll take our final question today from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First Moray you talked about the impact of the weather in the Northeast on your load-serving business.
When we -- once we get through the season and you assess where you're at are we going see that show up if I'm looking at the equivalent EBITDA ranges that you gave for the different buckets in the year will we see the impact of that show up in customer supply power and gas trading or in the spark spread and other line for the 1 000 megawatts or so you have in the Northeast? Well it's going to be spread across those.
Obviously it's a complex situation.
The fuel requirements we book is in the customer supply line so that will be much lower than we had originally anticipated.
Some of the physical assets up there in spark spread and other will probably look somewhat better.
How much better will remain to be seen? We'll have to see how the pure marketing and trading line looks.
But there are puts and takes even within that so there a lot of complex effects.
And some parts of the portfolio have done very well but the full requirements were clearly underperformed and that's relatively speaking for us quite big in the northeast compared with our asset positions.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the last question of course is on yieldco.
When you gave your 5 sort of key issues that you're grappling with 1 of them was that you wanted to retain the flexibility because you need to be opportunistic to find the best way to monetize each sort of asset in your portfolio.
How do you marry that up with or balance that with the necessity for having a certain amount of sort of visible manufactured growth in the yieldco to attract a low enough yield to make it low enough cost of capital to be attractive? In other words you have to promise people growth but then you're saying you want to be opportunistic in the way you place your assets? Right.
And that's clearly 1 of what I call the pragmatic issues that we have to work through.
We've got to make sure that if we were to pursue the yieldco path we don't end up inadvertently compromising the value of some particular assets which might have greater value realization that dealt with in a different way.
And that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy 2014 First Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Amanda Finnis.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are Jim Robo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Eric Silagy President of Florida Power &amp; Light Company.
Jim will get us started today with opening remarks and then Moray will provide an overview of our results.
Our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making forward-looking statements during this call based on current expectations and assumptions which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release and the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website www.nexteraenergy.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Today's presentation also includes references to adjusted earnings which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying today's presentation for definitional information and reconciliation of non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Amanda and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Moray to discuss our first quarter results I'd like to take a moment to update you on an important topic.
As you all know for some months now we've been assessing the possibility of forming a so-called yieldco.
After extensive analysis and careful thought we've made the judgment that it is in the best interest of our shareholders for us to take the next step in this process.
And on April 4 we've filed confidentially with the SEC a draft S-1 registration statement which would allow us to move forward with a yieldco structure following the SEC review process and subject to market conditions.
Unfortunately having given you this information we're now very restricted from offering you the additional information that I know you will all be looking for.
As you may know there is a concern that conveying the information about the yieldco at this time might be construed by the SEC as a prohibited offer of securities under the SEC rules which in turn could lead to delays in our ability to move forward with the transaction.
Accordingly we've concluded that it would be best to wait until after the S-1 is public before providing more detail.
Thus we'll not be able to discuss with you today such matters as the exact projects or megawatts involved over time or the financial performance of the assets that we expect to make available for purchase by the yieldco or many other things that I know you will have questions about.
Further while it is our present intention to move forward with this transaction there can be no guarantee that we will be able to execute successfully on terms that we believe will create long-term value for our shareholders which remains our objective.
We will continue to work diligently to ensure that we remain focused on this fundamental goal.
While there is much that we cannot discuss at this stage there are a few points that I can make.
First we've previously said that we would want to be sure that the introduction of the yieldco structure would not be negative to credit since our credit position is an important underpinning of our competitive strategy.
The fact that we are moving forward obviously implies that we've developed comfort that this objective is achievable while the principal control on this will be the integration of the yieldco into our overall financing plan in such a way that our credit metrics are maintained or strengthened.
We will also be sensitive to the impact on our portfolio mix going forward.
We expect to continue to place emphasis on developing new high-quality contracted projects at Energy Resources.
Our view with the credit impact of our proposed transaction is based not only on our own assessment but also on our discussions with the rating agencies.
Second we have also previously stated that one area of focus for us would be to ensure as close an alignment of interest is possible between our existing shareholders and investors in the yieldco vehicle.
We believe we've developed a suitable structure to support the same and I look forward to sharing details with you at a later date.
Third many of you have previously heard me say that an area of concern for us would be the cost and other implications on ongoing reporting and compliance obligations for 2 publicly traded entities.
We now feel comfortable that we will be able to manage these effectively.
And while they will undoubtedly be extra costs we did not believe they will detract meaningfully from our ability to create value for NextEra Energy shareholders through the transaction.
Finally let me reiterate that while our decisions are based on extensive analysis and careful consideration in the end we're making judgments about future value creation and there can be no guarantee we're correct.
With these comments aside I'm also pleased to be able to tell you that we had an excellent first quarter overall notwithstanding some challenges associated with the harsh winter in the Northeast and we're off to a good start for the year.
I'll now turn the call over to Moray to fill you in on the details.
Thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone.
As Jim said we had an excellent first quarter overall.
Our financial and operating performance was very strong and we continued to make good progress on our capital projects and other strategic initiatives consistent with the strategies we discussed in our investor conference over a year ago.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to deliver against the financial expectations we shared with you out through the 2016 time frame.
At Florida Power &amp; Light we continue to drive value for our customers through low bills high reliability and excellent customer service and for our shareholders through strong earnings growth.
For the fifth year in a row our typical residential customer bills are the lowest in the state and are currently about 25% below the national average.
Our major capital projects remain on track and I'm pleased to note that the second of our 3 generation modernization projects at Riviera Beach entered service just after the end of the first quarter about 2 months earlier than originally anticipated and slightly below the cost estimates submitted to the PSC in 2008.
Construction has begun on the Port Everglades modernization which we expect to come on line in mid-2016.
During the quarter we invested another $1 billion of capital in FPL consistent with our strategy of steadily improving the long-term value we offer our customers.
At Energy Resources our development and construction programs remain on track and our backlog of contracted renewables projects continues to develop with the PPA for roughly 250 megawatts of U.S.
wind signed since the last call.
Increased contributions from our contracted renewables portfolio continue to drive earnings growth.
The extreme market conditions in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic particularly during January caused parts of our customer supply business to underperform but this impact turned out to be less than we had expected and was offset by other favorable impacts many of which were driven by the same factors that caused the underperformance in customer supply.
Overall we were pleased with the quarter.
Now let's look at the results for FPL before moving on to Energy Resources and then the consolidated numbers.
For the first quarter of 2014 FPL reported net income of $347 million or $0.79 per share up $0.11 per share year-over-year.
We continue to focus on deploying capital productively in ways that have long-term benefits to customers.
As I mentioned FPL's capital expenditures were approximately $1 billion in the quarter and we expect our full year capital investments to be roughly $3.3 billion.
Regulatory capital employed grew 6.7% over the same quarter last year which combined with an increasing profitability resulted in very strong net income growth.
Our reported ROE for regulatory purposes is estimated to be 11.22% for the 12 months ended March 2014.
This includes the impact of the Project Momentum transition cost incurred late last year.
You will recall the Project Momentum is our enterprise-wide productivity initiative that we started last year.
Absent these costs regulatory ROE would have been 11.5%.
As a reminder the impact of the 2013 transition costs will roll off our reported regulatory ROE as we move through the year since the regulatory ROE is measured on a 12 month trailing basis.
Based on the progress we've made this -- excuse me -- made thus far in our cost position the continued improvement in the Florida economy our current capital investment program and the amount of reserve amortization were taken to date we are now comfortable targeting regulatory ROE at 11.5% for the full year 2014.
As we noted last quarter under the current rate agreement we record reserve amortization entries to achieve a predetermined regulatory ROE for each 12-month trailing period.
In this case the 11.5% that I just mentioned excluding special charges such as the Project Momentum transition costs.
We utilized $125 million of reserved amortization during the quarter in order to achieve this predetermined ROE.
As we mentioned before we always expect to use more reserve amortization in the first half of the year than the second half given the pattern of our underlying revenues and expenses.
In fact over the remainder of the year assuming normal weather and operating conditions we would expect to reverse the reserve amortization taken in the first quarter and end the year with a balance roughly equal to where we started or possibly even a little better.
Looking beyond 2014 we believe that our reserve balance when combined with our weather-normalized sales growth forecast of 1.5% to 2% per year and our current O&amp;M expectations as well as a commitment of a full-year total of roughly $7 billion in infrastructure CapEx will allow us to support regulatory ROEs in the upper half of the allowed band of 9.5% to 11.5% for the remaining period of the current rate agreement.
Furthermore we expect that we can do this while keeping typical residential customer bills the lowest in the state and among the lowest in the country and improving on our already excellent reliability in customer service records.
If we are successful in meeting our expectations by 2016 we will have further improved our already outstanding customer value proposition and will be well positioned for 2017 and beyond.
The Florida economy continues to strengthen and since 2010 most of the indicators we track continue to improve particularly in the areas of job growth business expansion and businesses that have relocated into the state.
This is due in part to a focused effort of the state on economic development and an overall improvement in the business climate including reductions in taxes benefiting businesses and individual taxpayers alike.
The state's relative economic position compared with the U.S.
overall has improved significantly since 2010.
Florida's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in March was 6.3% down 1.4 percentage points from a year ago.
The number of jobs in Florida was up 225 100 an increase of 3% compared to a year earlier and March was the 44th consecutive month with a positive job growth in Florida following more than 3 years of job losses.
Nationally the number of jobs was up 1.7% over the year.
Florida's annual job growth rate has exceeded the nation's rate since April 2012.
Florida's private sector continues to drive the state's job growth and more than 550 000 private sector jobs have been added since December 2010.
The housing market in Florida also continues to show signs of resiliency.
As the accompanying chart shows new building permits have dropped from their recent peak although they remained at a healthy level and mortgage delinquency rates continue to decline.
The Case-Shiller Index for South Florida shows home prices up 16% from the prior year.
Other positive economic data across the state include continued improvement in retail taxable sales as well as bankruptcies declining on an annual basis.
Overall Florida's economy continues to progress well.
FPL's customer metrics showed solid improvement this quarter.
Underlying usage per customer increased 0.4% compared to the same quarter last year which is consistent with our long-term expectation of approximately 0.5% per year net of the impact of efficiency and conservation programs at least through the period of the rate agreement.
However as we've often pointed out usage growth tends to be volatile from quarter-to-quarter.
Another encouraging development during the quarter was a decrease in the percentage of low usage customers the 12-month average of the low-usage percentage has fallen to 8.1% its lowest level since May 2007.
The number of inactive accounts has also continued to decline reaching its lowest level since April 2004.
During the first quarter we also saw the largest average increase in customers since late 2007 with approximately 87 000 more customers than in the comparable quarter of 2013 representing an increase of 1.9%.
However roughly 0.9% of the increase can be attributed to the rollout of our remote connect and disconnect capability enabled by our smart meter program that we highlighted last year.
As a reminder these new customers which are disproportionately low-usage and residential have a lower impact on our sales.
We estimate that customer growth accounted for about 1.1% of the increase in sales during the quarter.
Good usage and customer growth combined with a favorable year-over-year weather effect of 2.9% to yield overall retail sales growth of 4.4%.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported first quarter 2014 GAAP earnings of $86 million or $0.20 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter were $211 million or $0.48 per share.
During the quarter we reversed our prior decision to sell off fossil assets in Maine.
As a reminder the Maine fossil assets are a combined 796 megawatts of oil-fired power plants operating within the NEPOOL market.
In last year's first quarter call we announced plans to adjust our portfolio by selling these assets and we conducted a competitive bid process during the fall and winter.
However the bids we received were not consistent with our view of the fundamental value of the assets and recent developments in regional market conditions have reinforced this assessment.
While these assets are not called upon to run frequently they do play an important role in supporting the reliability of the electric system and this has real economic value.
Accordingly we have decided to retain these assets as an integral part of our New England portfolio.
As a result of our decision to retain these assets we have recognized an after-tax gain of $12 million during the quarter based on the current estimated fair value of the fossil assets and we have reclassified from discontinued operations to income from continuing operations the after-tax loss recorded during the first quarter of last year.
The gain in 2014 and the loss in 2013 are both excluded from adjusted earnings.
The financial impact from operations of these assets for both periods is included in both GAAP and adjusted results.
Energy Resources' adjusted EPS contribution increased $0.06 from the prior year comparable quarter.
New wind and solar investments added $0.06 per share reflecting continued strong contributions from growth in our contract and renewables portfolio.
Across the balance of the portfolio the aggregate of other impacts was flat.
However because there were individually significant ups and downs and some of the elements were interrelated let me provide a few more details.
As discussed earlier in the call our results suffered from the adverse effect of extreme winter volatility on our full requirements business in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic.
This negative effect on the full requirements portfolio was much larger than the positive impacts on other parts of the customer supply and trading portfolio and the overall contribution from all these businesses was down $0.11 per share.
Despite this challenge and in some cases as a result of the same extreme market conditions there were opportunities in other parts of the portfolio.
Contributions from existing assets increased $0.14 per share including $0.05 from existing wind assets net of PTC roll-off as a result of favorable generation.
The same weather system that drove the challenging market conditions in the Northeast also resulted in above average wind resource from many of our wind sites.
The same market conditions also meant that the contribution from our Maine Fossil assets increased $0.03.
Finally there were a number of smaller favorable impact across other parts of the portfolio that collectively added up to $0.06.
Increased corporate G&amp;A and other costs contributed negative $0.04 for the year-over-year change including share dilution of negative $0.02.
All other effects were minor as reflected on the accompanying slide.
For the full year we expect to elect CITCs on roughly 265 megawatts from our Mountain View Solar project and the portions of Genesis and Desert Sunlight solar project that are expected to enter service in 2014.
This equates to roughly $60 million in adjusted earnings down from roughly $70 million in 2013 on 280 megawatts of solar projects.
The Energy Resources team continues to execute on our backlog and pursue additional contracted renewable development opportunities.
In Canada we continue to expect the 466 megawatts in our backlog to enter service by the end of 2015 with the majority expected to come into service in 2014.
Our contracted U.S.
solar backlog remains on track.
And during the quarter we brought roughly 170 -- 165 megawatts of solar into service with the commissioning of Mountain View the balance of Genesis and partial commissioning of Desert Sunlight.
We continue to expect to bring the remaining roughly 650 megawatts of our backlog into service by the end of 2016.
In addition to our existing contracted backlog we continue to pursue additional solar opportunities including possibly 1 large 250 megawatt project and a development pipeline of smaller 10- to 40-megawatt projects.
Turning to our U.S.
wind program we commissioned roughly 75 megawatts during the first quarter.
Additionally the team recently signed a PPA for roughly 250-megawatt project which is expected to come into service in 2015 bringing our total contracted U.S.
wind development program for 2013 through 2015 to approximately 1 675 megawatts.
Based on everything we see at the moment we continue to believe our total 2013 to 2015 U.S.
wind program could be 2 000 to 2 500 megawatts.
Turning now with the consolidated results for the first quarter of 2014 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $430 million or $0.98 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2014 first quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $557 million and $1.26 respectively.
Adjusted earnings from the Corporate &amp; Other Segment were down $0.03 per share compared to the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to consolidating tax adjustments.
As we noted last quarter financial results and project updates for the pipeline projects will be reported as part of our Corporate &amp; Other business segment.
Both pipeline projects Sabal Trail Transmission and Florida Southeast Connection continue to progress well through their respective development processes and we expect to submit necessary filings with FERC later this year.
We expect to receive FERC approval sometime in 2015 and we expect the projects to be in service by mid-2017.
Spectra Energy Partners majority owner of Sabal Trail Transmission continues to meet the effort to market additional available capacity on the upstream pipeline to potential shippers and detail siting and environmental activities are under way on both pipelines.
At this point early in the year we're very pleased with our progress.
Our first quarter results ended up being a little better than we had expected but we see nothing to cause us to change our view for the full year.
Second quarter comparisons will be challenged by the fact that Seabrook has an outage this year but we expect the second half of the year to show solid growth supporting a full year 2014 adjusted earnings per share range of $5.05 to $5.45.
In the appendix we provide a number of sensitivities around our 2014 expectations.
Looking ahead to 2016 we see nothing that would change the range of earnings expectations we provided during March 2013 for 2016.
We continue to expect adjusted earnings per share for 2016 to be in the range of $5.50 to $6 which is consistent with EPS growth at a compound annual growth rate of 5% to 7% through 2016 off a 2012 base.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
And with that we'll now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask just quickly if you could -- I know you can't comment specifically on the yieldco but as you think about your broader renewables commitment how does this change your view on what is possible from a development perspective? And I suppose could you address that both from the utility scale and from a smaller scale perspective on solar and wind? Well as Jim said in the prepared remarks we are limited in what we can say.
All I can really say is that we continue to believe that we will see long-term growth in demand for renewables in this country.
We continue to believe that we will be well positioned to compete to gain a share of that demand and that demand will be seen both on the wind and the solar side varied by geography but beyond that I really can't go.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And I suppose just in thinking about what is within the context of eligible is it fair to say that your prior comments still apply? Again I can't really say anything more than we've said to date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough just trying to get that out there.
And then just secondly as you look at the expectation for double tier we've heard -- I suppose a little bit on the PTC expansion.
What are your thoughts? What are you seeing out there in the market as a result of that? Does that mean that clients potentially are pushing out their desire to lock up contracts given the potential for the extension? How has that changed the dynamics as best you see it? Well I'll ask Armando to offer some more details.
But just generally I would say there continues to be good interest.
We're in active dialogue with a number of customers.
But as always the uncertainty about the extension of the PTC does play in.
So at this point I think there is very good odds that we will see another extension in the PTC.
But obviously the uncertainty does affect how that plays out in the marketplace.
Armando? I don't have anything to add to that one.
And we'll go next to Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just talk about the growth in solar and from a strategic point of view how you think about the approach.
We're seeing more distributed solar done both residential and commercial.
And there the economics you really under net metering rules there is potentially very good margin in the sense of -- as solar installation costs drop you're able to arbitrage most of the utility bill whereas in large solar projects its often still done under RFP and somewhat competitive in that regard.
How do you think about the growth in solar in terms of take for example in commercial solar? Do you see potentially going down market in a sense of smaller projects over time? Or do you think you'll likely remain fairly a large-scale in terms of as you think about solar? Well Steven we're certainly going to continue to have a concentration on large-scale solar projects.
As I think you know we have had now for some time a relatively small development effort in the distributed C&amp;I space.
So we do think that there will be some opportunities there.
But I guess the main comment that I would make on this subject is that in sort of broad strategy terms we want to try and be aligned with what we perceive to be the long-term fundamentals of economics and even with -- regardless of how prices are coming down we continue to see the fundamental economics of larger-scale solar projects dominating those of small-scale solar projects particularly the very small-scale solar projects such as residential rooftop.
So we recognize that there is a market opportunity for some folks driven by I would say specific market rules but we are a little leery when those market rules really don't match up with the underlying economics.
So for the long-term we want our development activity to be aligned with the fundamentals of the economics.
I would just add Steven this is Jim that I think it's really dangerous to assume that from a rate design standpoint across utilities across the country that they're not going to very aggressively address the fact that there is a effectively a net metering subsidy in non-solar rooftop.
Residential solar rooftop users are effectively paying the grid costs of the solar rooftop users through -- as a result of the net metering subsidy.
I think it's very dangerous to assume that utilities aren't going to aggressively address that through rate design over the next several years.
Research Division</strong> Excellent color and very fair point.
Understood.
And just in Florida as we look we've seen a lot of potential legislative activity on solar.
Are there any things in particular we should be most focused on as we watch? It's honestly hard to tell the noise from the substance in terms of just the variety of potential legislative activity.
Any further color you can add on solar legislative activity in Florida? Well I'll ask Eric to comment specifically but what's going on in Florida here at least from our perspective is that we believe there are some opportunities to introduce more solar into the system and we want to come forward with proposals that are the most economic for our customers.
But on the political Eric do you have any thoughts? What I would add is that the -- this week is the last week of the legislative session for 2014.
So it's going to end on Friday.
There's no pending legislation with regards to any type of solar or renewables at this point.
And as Moray said we're exploring opportunities where it makes economic sense.
But there has being a real focus by the legislative body to make sure that primarily power prices stay affordable and customers have the lowest bills possible.
And we'll go next to Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just -- I'm sorry if I missed this.
Did you guys -- or can you guys say when the S-1 the public one will be filed? Well the timing obviously depends upon the SEC review process.
I would hope that we would be talking a matter of several weeks rather than several months.
Okay great.
And then just to make sure the -- just wanted to follow-up on the merchant -- the main merchant stuff and the change reversal.
Are you guys -- has there been any strategic change with respect to merchant exposure strategically because of changes in the market or anything? Or is this just simply because of this 1 asset that you're being offered and what have you? It's really specific to the asset.
And also to be fair how the asset fits into our portfolio.
It has a distribution of outcomes that is not at all symmetrical but it -- when it does well it offsets other parts of the portfolio that may not be doing so well.
But it was fundamentally a question of the value that we were receiving in the bids wasn't consistent with our view in the fundamentals.
And obviously the fundamentals of that market has strengthened a little bit relative to this time last year when we originally made the decision to put it up for sale.
Okay.
But there's been no change in your move to more contracted and what-have-you assets is that correct? That's correct.
In terms of new development activities you're going to see pretty much everything we do will continue to be in contracted space.
Okay.
And then just finally on the weather impact I just wasn't clear on a normalized earnings basis.
What the -- I saw the $0.11 that was negative and I saw the 2.9% sales growth.
I just wasn't clear about what -- and I'm sorry if I missed it -- what the net-net sort of weather impact was for the quarter on a U.S.
basis? You really can't look at the net weather impact for us as an enterprise.
You have to look at the 2 businesses separately.
Because they're accounting for the rate agreement the weather impact at FPL is absorbed into the overall calculation and effectively is adjusted out by the use of surplus depreciation because we are effectively managing to the predetermined ROE.
So it has a longer-term impact but it doesn't have a direct impact in the short-term.
On the Energy Resources side wind -- on a year-over-year basis wind resource contributed about $0.09 so $0.09 up versus the year.
So the pure resource component was about $0.09.
Versus the $0.11 negative right? Yes.
Okay.
To be fair I mean not all of the $0.09 can directly be attributed to the weather but associated with $0.11 if you understand what I mean.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Fleishman from Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> First just wanted to ask on the utility.
The -- so just wanted to understand the 11.5% ROE is what you expect to earn within the guidance for this year and it's just a matter of how much is kind of -- the amortization was around to kind of get you to that and the more you can do yes.
Yes that's a fair characterization.
So for this year we will be at 11.5%.
And as I've said in the prepared remarks looking forward based on where we are at the moment we think we can continue to be in the upper half of the 9.5% to 11.5% allowed range.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And on the SEC process maybe you could just make sure we understand the way the private filings work.
So you file it we don't know when you filed it we don't know when it will come out.
But once it comes out publicly that's a fully amended ready to go S-1? So we could see kind of the end game? No we've said that we filed on -- the confidential version on April 4.
So now we're in the review process.
Obviously it depends upon the degree of the SEC's review and the comments that come from that and our responses to that so it's a variable time.
But at some point we will be -- we hope through with that process and then the filing will become public.
LLC</strong> But it is the only public once we're at a final version that will actually be used on the transaction or -- Steve this is Jim.
If it does become public ultimately and market conditions are there and we move forward all versions of -- the first S-1 that we filed and then the final S-1 that gets filed will all be available and public so everything will be available.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First on FPL just want to make sure I understand on the regulatory ROE.
You're basically assuming that you're not going to take any during the course of 2014 because what you took in the first quarter you'll just reverse out gradually during the rest of the year? That's correct broadly speaking.
Depends what the summer weather is.
Research Division</strong> Totally understood.
Second what's your latest thought about timing of next rate case? Well first of all just to remind everybody the current rate agreement goes through the end of 2016.
Clearly we are aiming strategically to put ourselves in a position for whatever comes beyond that whether it's a formal rate case or whether it's another rate agreement to continue to track record of delivering value to the customers.
In that vein I would simply blend out that project momentum is a very important part of our ability to be in a good position come the end of '16 to continue to offer both customers and shareholders a very attractive value proposition.
Beyond that it's still only the early part of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I was just trying to think of the longer-term scenario of -- do you have to file or can you if you manage your costs really well and you get a little bit of demand recovery can you stay out of potential rate proceeding for beyond 2016 or so? Yes I think it's premature to speculate on the specifics of that but certainly we are doing everything we can to put ourselves in a position to go for as long as we can without filing a rate case.
Research Division</strong> Got it understood.
And finally on the near side again I want to make sure can you walk through just the amount of the megawatts of U.S.
wind and U.S.
solar you expect to come online? Meaning not the stuff that's already online or COD but that you expect to come online in both 2014 and '15.
You made some comments in the prepared remarks about specific amounts in 2014.
I just want to make sure we're understanding what's coming when.
Okay.
At the risk of -- well in order not to confuse you I'm going to point you to Slide 11.
I think that has the basic information as well as Slide 25 has the details of individual projects that go into each of the buckets in Slide 11 so I think the information is there.
And we'll go now to Angie Storozynski from Macquarie.
So I wanted to actually follow-up on the regulatory plans for FPL and from 2 aspects.
One is recent polls in Florida are suggesting that the former Governor John Kristoff is -- could be coming back and how should we think about it of its potential impact on your regulatory affairs in Florida? Secondly on FPL could you give us an update on the upgrades to your gas peakers? And thirdly are you seeing any increased interest in potentially contracting new renewable projects from regulated utilities as they anticipate the new carbon emission rule from the EPA? Angie on the first I would just say that we have operated very effectively through many different political and regulatory environments and we are simply focused on doing the best job we can to deliver value for our customers.
We think that's the best strategy for putting ourselves in the best position in the regulatory environment.
On the peakers we're in the midst of an in the field testing program where we are monitoring the actual emissions.
We don't know exactly how that -- how long that will take but should certainly be completed by the end of the summer.
Based on that we will then have a better sense of how we move forward.
I think it's likely to be something along the same lines as we had outlined before although it may not require as much capital as we had originally anticipated.
And I would think that we would still be looking at the bulk of that activity being in the 2016 time frame.
On the -- you're going to have to remind me what your third question was.
Yes I was asking about utilities being more receptible to or willing to sign PPAs for renewable project in anticipation of the carbon rule from the EPA basically attempting to offset the carbon emissions with some more renewables and the -- either in their portfolio or under PPAs? Okay.
I understand.
Yes I haven't heard of that being a motivator.
I think the motivations are otherwise.
But Armando you want to comment? Yes let me give just a brief update of wind development.
Moray mentioned this before.
Clearly with the PTC extension out there and discussion on the PTC there's a bit of uncertainty with customers whether they're going to sign PPA contracts in 2015 or try to push it out.
But I think that uncertainty will be cleared up really by the end of the year when we understand what's going on on that front.
We have a very large and active pipeline potential opportunities at this point.
We've talked about that pipeline before over the last year both in the U.S.
and Canada.
And a fair number of the PPAs that we've actually signed in the last 18 to 24 months have actually not been driven by renewable portfolio standards in the states have not been driven by EPA concerns have actually been driven just by the pure economics of the long-term wind contracts.
I think it's still a bit early to understand what some of the EPA rules might mean for us and beyond 2015 but it certainly can't be a negative and I would expect it to be a positive.
And I guess the last comment I would make is because we are getting towards the end of the PTC extension which because of IRS guidelines essentially expires at the end of 2015 there are several acquisition opportunities in the market that we and others are looking at.
And we will take our last question today from Jonathan Arnold from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You sent an update on your latest thoughts on the plans around potential utility investment in the upstream nat gas business anything you can share on that? Not a lot new that we can share at the moment.
Just to remind folks we continue to pursue the potential opportunity to help the FPL customer by reducing the potential volatility of the fuel component of the bill and possibly lower its average cost over time by investing directly in gas reserves.
We need to find the right set of deals that will make that a reality.
We are in the midst of pursuing that and I would certainly hope we will be in a position to come forward with something specific within the next 12 months.
But that's -- I've said that before there's really nothing new there.
Research Division</strong> So we shouldn't be necessarily expecting sort of first sort of trial in this calendar year it's more of 12 month? Yes not necessarily.
Research Division</strong> It could be as soon as this year Moray? It could be as soon as this year but we'll have to see.
The only other thing to say is that anything we do to start with will be fairly small it won't have a huge impact.
Obviously we want to establish a framework and show that these kinds of things can be a good deal before we start to scale up.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference and we thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners' 2014 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Amanda Finnis.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Chanel.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the second quarter 2014 combined earnings conference call for NextEra Energy and for NextEra Energy Partners.
With me this morning are Jim Robo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources all of whom are also officers of NextEra Energy Partners; as well as Eric Silagy President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company.
Moray will provide an overview of our results and our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making forward-looking statements during this call based on current expectations and assumptions which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factor section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found on our websites www.nexteraenergy.com and www.nexteraenergypartners.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Today's presentation also includes references to adjusted earnings which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying today's presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Amanda.
Good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy had an excellent quarter capped off by the successful launch of NextEra Energy Partners.
All parts of the NextEra portfolio performed well and both NEE and NEP remain on track to deliver the financial expectations including cash flow and credit metrics that we have previously disclosed.
I will provide more detail on expectations later in the call.
At Florida Power &amp; Light we have invested roughly $1.6 billion of capital year-to-date consistent with our strategy of improving the long-term value we offer our customers.
Our major capital projects remain on track and we continue to expect the last of our 3 generation modernization projects at Port Everglades to come online in mid-2016.
Our reliability and storm hardening initiatives are also progressing well.
In addition to these efforts to improve our electric delivery system we are now exploring opportunities to help us deliver lower and more stable natural gas costs for our customers.
Last month FPL announced an innovative plan to invest in long-term natural gas supplies which I will talk about more in a moment.
And we were particularly pleased to learn that FPL was named the most trusted utility in the nation based on a large nationwide sample of utility customers.
At Energy Resources our development and construction programs remain on track and our backlog of contracted renewables projects continues to development with a PPA for another roughly 100 megawatts of U.S.
wind signed since the last call.
Earnings growth was driven by new contracted renewals projects as well as strong results in our customer supply and trading business.
At NextEra Energy Partners the assets operated well and delivered financial results in line with expectations.
In addition just after the close of the quarter the last of the projects in the initial portfolio became operational.
Now let's look at the results for FPL.
For the second quarter of 2014 FPL reported net income of $423 million or $0.96 per share up $0.04 per share year-over-year.
The principal drivers of FPL's earnings growth in the quarter were continued investment in the business and an increase in wholesale operations.
FPL's capital expenditures were approximately $570 million in the quarter and we expect our full year capital investments to be roughly $3.2 billion.
Regulatory capital employed grew 6.2% over the same quarter last year and net income grew 8.2%.
Our reported ROE for regulatory purposes for the 12 months ended June 2014 will be approximately 11.3%.
Similar to last quarter this includes the impact of transition costs associated with our enterprise-wide productivity initiative Project Momentum that we incurred over the 12-month period all of which were incurred in 2013.
Absent these costs regulatory ROE would have been 11.5% which remains our target for the full year 2014.
As a reminder the impact of the 2013 transition costs will roll off our reported regulatory ROE as we move through the year since the regulatory ROE is measured on a 12-month trailing basis.
We utilized $6 million of reserve amortization during the quarter in order to achieve this predetermined ROE bringing our year-to-date utilization reserve amortization to $131 million.
Under the current rate agreement we record reserve amortization entries to achieve a predetermined regulatory ROE for each 12-month trailing period in this case the 11.5% that I previously mentioned excluding special charges such as the Project Momentum transition costs.
As we've mentioned before we always expect to use more reserve amortization in the first half of the year than the second half given the pattern of our underlying revenues and expenses.
Over the remainder of the year assuming normal weather and operating conditions we expect to reverse the reserve amortization taken in the first half of the year and end the year with a balance roughly equal to where we started or possibly even a little better.
Looking beyond 2014 we continue to believe that our reserve balance when combined with our weather-normalized sales growth forecast of 1.5% to 2% per year and our current O&amp;M expectations as well as the commitment of a total of roughly $7 billion in infrastructure CapEx for the period 2013 to 2016 will allow us to support regulatory ROEs in the upper half of the allowed band of 9.5% to 11.5% for the remaining period of the current rate agreement.
We expect that we can do so in ways that will further improve our already outstanding customer value proposition and will position us well for 2017 and beyond.
In Florida most economic indicators we follow continue to show improvement year-over-year while some appear to have recently stabilized.
Most notably Florida's focus on economic development and an overall improvement in the business climate continue to encourage business expansion and additional hiring while measures of confidence in the state of the economy have generally improved.
As a result Florida labor force participation rate has increased in recent months even while the U.S.
rate continues to drift downward.
Clearly the return of previously discouraged workers into the labor force is positive although it will naturally mean that further reductions in Florida's unemployment rate will come at a slower rate.
Florida's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in June was 6.2% down 1.2 percentage points from a year ago.
The number of jobs in Florida was up 237 500 an increase of 3.1% compared to a year earlier and June was the 47th consecutive month with positive job growth in Florida following more than 3 years of job losses.
Nationally the number of jobs was up 1.8% over the year.
Florida's annual job growth rate has exceeded the nation's rate since April 2012.
Florida's private sector continues to drive the state's job growth and more than 620 000 private sector jobs have been added since December 2010.
Turning to the Florida housing market.
Recent data appear to show indicators settling into a steadier and hopefully more sustainable pace.
As the accompanying chart shows new building permits have stabilized and remain at comparatively healthy levels as Florida ranked second-highest in the U.S.
in new housing permits.
Mortgage delinquency rates continue to decline and the Case-Shiller Index for South Florida shows home prices up 14.6% from the prior year.
Other positive economic data across the state include continued improvement in retail taxable sales as well as the consumer confidence index.
Overall Florida's economy continues to progress well.
Our customer and usage metrics at FPL this quarter show mixed results.
We saw the largest average increase of customers since the second quarter of 2007 with approximately 91 000 more customers than in the comparable quarter of 2013 representing growth of 2%.
Roughly half of the increase can be attributed to the rollout of our remote connect and disconnect capability enabled by our smart meter program that we highlighted last year.
As a reminder these new customers which are disproportionately low usage and residential have a lower impact on our sales.
Taking this into account we estimate that customer growth accounted for about 1% of the increase in sales during the quarter.
Overall usage grew by 0.6% driven by favorable weather comparison.
Underlying usage per customer however decreased 1.3% compared to the same quarter last year.
As you may recall usage was in line with our long-term expectations during the first quarter and as we have often pointed out this metric can be somewhat volatile on a quarterly basis.
Our long-term expectation of underlying usage growth continues to be approximately 0.5% per year net of the impact of efficiency and conservation programs at least through the period of the rate agreement.
The 12-month average of low-usage customers fell to 8.1% its lowest level in 7 years while the average number of inactive accounts for the quarter declined to levels not seen since early 2004.
As I mentioned earlier FPL has announced a plan to invest in long-term natural gas supplies and has filed a petition with the Florida Public Service Commission seeking approval.
As a first step in the plan FPL will partner with PetroQuest Energy to develop natural gas production wells in the Woodford Shale region in southeastern Oklahoma.
While a proposed initial program of up to roughly $200 million of capital investment is modest in size relative to FPL's overall natural gas needs we view the transaction as an important first step in what we hope will be a larger program that will improve the value we deliver to our customers even further.
Acquiring an interest in natural gas reserves is expected to lower long-term fuel costs and provide a long-term hedge against potential volatility in the market price for natural gas which is a large component of the price of electricity and would thereby address a concern that a number of policymakers have raised.
In addition to the initial proposal FPL has also requested that the PSC approve a set of guidelines for subsequent natural gas production projects to allow the company and in turn its customers to take advantage of future beneficial natural gas investment opportunities.
FPL expects a PSC decision by the end of 2014 or early 2015.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported second quarter 2014 GAAP earnings of $81 million or $0.18 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter were $213 million or $0.48 per share.
These adjusted results include 2 unusual items both associated with the launch of NextEra Energy Partners: first a negative impact of $0.05 per share from restructuring and direct transaction costs associated with the creation of NEP; second a negative impact of $0.10 per share which represents an income tax charge driven by separating our Canadian projects to enable them to fit into the overall NEP structure.
This is a noncash item and any real cash tax impact -- if there were to be any -- would occur many years in the future.
In fact there may never be any cash impact as we believe this item may be reversed in future periods pending discussions with Canadian tax authorities.
Together these 2 items reduced Energy Resources' adjusted results by about $0.15 per share.
So the underlying operating results were very strong and in fact exceeded our expectations with excellent performance in virtually all parts of the portfolio.
As you know the launch of NEP came at the end of the quarter and NEP was not operational in the second quarter.
As a result Energy Resources' second quarter results do not reflect any deduction for noncontrolling interest.
Going forward Energy Resources will continue to consolidate NEP for accounting purposes and you should expect to see a deduction from income representing the NEP LP unitholders' interest in Energy Resources results.
Our investor relations team will be ready to address any questions you may have about the interrelationships between Energy Resources and NEP.
Energy Resources' contribution to adjusted EPS decreased by $0.08 year-over-year.
Setting aside the combined negative impact of $0.15 per share from the unusual items associated with establishing and launching NEP that I discussed earlier the core business delivered great results.
Strong contributions from growth in our contracted renewables portfolio added $0.05 per share reflecting new wind and solar investments placed into service during or after the second quarter of 2013.
Consistent with our commitment to recycling capital asset sales collectively added $0.06 per share including $0.03 per share due to a gain on a sale of wells in our gas infrastructure business.
We expect to continue to recycle capital from time to time within the gas infrastructure business keeping our overall commitment of capital to this business to a small fraction of the total.
The customer supply and trading business added $0.07 per share primarily reflecting structured transactions tailored to meet specific customer needs.
The contributions from existing assets declined by $0.05 per share driven primarily by the planned refueling outage at Seabrook.
However this was better than we had anticipated as Seabrook's outage was the best ever for the facility at just over 23 days.
In addition wind resource overall was strong during the quarter although the year-over-year impact was small as the second quarter of 2013 was also well above average.
All other factors reduced results by $0.06 per share including $0.02 of higher interest expense associated with the growing portfolio and $0.02 of dilution.
For the full year we continue to expect to elect CITCs on roughly 265 megawatts for our Mountain View Solar project and the portions of Genesis and Desert Sunlight solar projects that are expected to enter service in 2014.
This equates to roughly $60 million in adjusted earnings down from roughly $70 million in 2013 on 280 megawatts of solar projects.
Let me now turn to NEP.
As I just noted NEP was not operational during the second quarter and therefore while it has released results and will file a Form 10-Q the presentation of results follows what is known as predecessor format which is the same basis as was presented in the S-1.
I must caution you that this is likely to be different from what you will see going forward in particular because the tax treatment of the NEP assets will be different under the NEP structure.
As a consequence analysis of NEP second quarter reported results is not particularly meaningful.
Moreover we recognize that most NEP investors will be focused on EBITDA and cash available for distribution and we expect to provide analysis of these variables for the third quarter and beyond.
During the second quarter the NEP assets performed in line with our expectations.
Consequently the EBITDA and cash flow of the portfolio were also consistent with our expectations.
The second unit at our Genesis project entered commercial operations late in the first quarter and operated well throughout the second quarter while the last of the initial portfolio assets our Bluewater wind project in Ontario started commercial operations just after the end of the quarter.
Overall we were very pleased with the performance of the NEP portfolio during the second quarter.
Shifting back to the broader Energy Resources portfolio the team continues to execute on our backlog and pursue additional contracted renewable development opportunities.
In Canada we continue to expect the remaining approximately 400 megawatts of wind in our backlog to enter service by the end of 2015 with the majority expected to come into service by the end of this year.
Our solar backlog remains on track and during the quarter we brought 13 megawatts of solar into service with the partial commissioning of Desert Sunlight.
We continue to expect to bring the remaining roughly 635 megawatts of our backlog into service by the end of 2016.
In addition to our existing contracted backlog we continue to pursue additional solar opportunities that could come online by the end of 2016.
Turning to our U.S.
wind program.
The team recently signed a PPA for a roughly 100-megawatt project which is expected to come into service in 2015 bringing our total contracted U.S.
wind development program for 2013 through 2015 to approximately 1 770 megawatts.
Based on everything we see at the moment we continue to believe our total 2013 to 2015 U.S.
wind program could be 2 000 to 2 500 megawatts.
In the appendix of our earnings presentation we have provided a reconciliation of all anticipated megawatts at Energy Resources through the end of 2016 which may be helpful to NEP investors as well.
Turning now to the consolidated results for NextEra Energy.
For the second quarter of 2014 NextEra Energy's GAAP net income was $492 million or $1.12 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2014 second quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS was $630 million and $1.43 respectively.
Adjusted earnings from the Corporate &amp; Other segment increased $0.01 per share compared to the second quarter of 2013.
You may recall that when discussing the possible creation of NEP we indicated that an important factor in our decision-making would be the impact it might have on credit.
We are pleased to note that S&amp;P Moody's and Fitch all affirmed our ratings and stable outlook.
Looking forward as NEP grows we will continue to focus on ensuring that we sustain our strong credit position both in terms of our credit metrics as well as in our focus on portfolio mix and business composition.
The development of both Sabal Trail Transmission and Florida Southeast Connection continue to progress well through their respective processes and we continue to expect to submit necessary filings with FERC later this year.
During the quarter we also announced a nonbinding open season for a 330-mile natural gas pipeline project called Mountain Valley Pipeline partnering with EQT Corporation.
The project is designed to connect the Marcellus and Utica Shales with markets in the southeast region of the U.S.
in order to support growing demand and improvements in reliability.
The results of the open season the details of which we are currently evaluating were very strong and confirm our view that the Mountain Valley project is very attractive to a wide range of potential shippers.
The next step towards firming up a commercially viable project is to convert these strong expressions of interest into binding economic commitments.
We look forward to providing more details at a later date.
Before turning to our expectations for 2014 and beyond I would like to say a few words about our involvement with the Energy Future Holdings bankruptcy case.
While our general policy is not to comment on individual transactions whether real or potential obviously a number of documents have been publicly filed in this case and various parties have commented and speculated on our involvement.
We have on many occasions articulated our view that we believe we have the necessary skills to effectively manage large regulated utility businesses in a fashion that delivers value to both customers and investors.
We have also indicated that we would be open to expanding our portfolio of regulated utility assets through acquisition if we can do so within acceptable financial and risk parameters and if we can see a reasonable path to all necessary regulatory approvals.
With that in mind it is no secret that we have made a tangible revised proposal to EFH in the bankruptcy court.
Our commitment to Texas runs deep having invested more than $7 billion in transmission power generation and other operations in the Lone Star state.
We also bring to the table a proven track record in the utilities industry highlighted by strong performance in the areas of reliability affordability and customer focus.
And I will simply reiterate our belief that our revised proposal would provide substantial value to all stakeholders including Oncor's customers.
Our performance in the second quarter was stronger than we expected and our expectations for the second half of the year have not changed significantly.
Based on these observations we now believe it is reasonable to expect our full year results to be somewhere in the range of $5.15 to $5.35 per share even including the $0.15 of onetime effects from the launch of NEP which of course were not anticipated when we originally shared with you our 2014 view back in the summer of last year.
While we're very pleased with our progress so far this year it remains to be seen how much of the "goodness of this year" will carry over into 2015 and beyond.
Accordingly at least for now we are not changing our view of 2016 with an adjusted earnings per share range of $5.50 to $6 or 5% to 7% compound annual growth rate off a 2012 base.
However we do expect to update our view of the 2016 time frame later in the year or early in 2015 when we will have more clarity around a few important uncertainties.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats we provide including normal weather and operating conditions.
Last year we shared with you our expectations for improvements in our credit metrics for both 2013 and 2014 and we continue to be on track in terms of cash flow and leverage to meet those targets which are fully consistent with our current ratings.
Turning now to expectations for NEP.
We remain confident in the forecast we presented in the S-1.
We expect the initial portfolio to yield EBITDA of about $250 million and cash available for distribution of about $87 million for the 12 months through the end of June 2015 and these results should support an initial distribution at an annualized rate of $0.75 per unit.
Our expectations assume normal weather and operating conditions.
Looking beyond the first year we expect unit distributions to grow about 12% to 15% per year for at least 3 years and we believe this is achievable with the acquisition only of assets from the ROFO portfolio assuming current market conditions.
On average we expect the ROFO portfolio to look fairly similar to the initial portfolio on a per-megawatt basis with annual EBITDA expectations of $250 000 to $260 000 per megawatt and cash available for distribution of about $85 000 to $95 000 per megawatt once all ROFO assets have entered into commercial operations.
The last of the ROFO assets are not expected to enter service until late in 2016.
While NEP has no special contractual rights to support further acquisitions we believe it is reasonable to expect that Energy Resources will want to make available additional projects from its existing portfolio as well as some of those currently under development.
As of the end of last year Energy Resources had another roughly 7 000-or-so megawatts of contracted renewables projects in its operating portfolio.
And while not all of these projects would be suitable immediately for NEP many or all of them could become eligible over time.
In addition we expect to have a further 1 800 to 2 300 megawatts of additional contracted renewable capacity entering service prior to the end of 2016.
And finally beyond contracted renewables Energy Resources has other projects that may perhaps be suitable for NEP over time.
Overall we continue to believe that NEP offers investors by far the largest and highest overall quality portfolio of potential assets that can help drive growth and distributions for many years to come.
We expect to be in a position to provide additional ongoing forward-looking disclosures with our third quarter conference call.
With that we will now open the line for questions.
Since this is our first combined conference call for NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners it will be helpful if you can be clear which entity you are referring to in your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch on Mountain Valley.
And just to understand -- I understand the feedback you gave on the expressions of interest could you speak a bit to the timing that we might expect as you assess what you received? And just better help us understand what sort of milestones we should be looking for.
Sure let me ask Armando to address that.
Stephen we're in the middle of going back and looking at all the expressions of interest that we received and having individual discussions to make sure that we can enter into agreements with all of the interested parties.
My expectation is that by the end of this year we will be in a position to understand whether to -- whether we're going to move forward or not with the project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should -- we -- you'd be communicating that back by the end of the year it sounds like is the general time frame you're thinking? Okay.
Yes.
I'd expect it to be no later than then.
We might have updates before then but I think for investors and analysts they should expect that by the end of the year we should know whether we're moving forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just over for NextEra not NEP but just thinking about equity needs in the future and what's -- as you think about further drop-downs into NEP.
Can you talk at least broadly about how having NEP impacts your need for equity funding? How you think about that? Does it largely eliminate external equity requirements or -- just a little bit more color on equity needs? Sure.
The way to think about the contributions coming up from NEP from a financing perspective is to expect that they will get rolled into our overall financing plan at Capital Holdings.
So obviously that implies that at the margin there's some implicit reduction in what are the other -- the equity -- otherwise would be.
Having said that I would just remind you what we've said previously which is with the equity issuance last year and the forward that comes in this year unless we see significant additional incremental CapEx we would not expect to be coming back to the market for incremental equity.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Eggers with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give -- maybe a little more commentary on adding the natural gas reserves into rate base kind of how the process will work with Phase 1 and then how you're thinking about layering in additional reserve additions over time? And what the commission is going to view as a successful implementation in this program? Sure.
It's pretty straightforward.
We have a tangible proposition on the table right now which we are asking the commission to approve.
It has good economics for our customers.
We think it makes a lot of sense from fundamentals and fundamental policy reasons.
But it's just one transaction and it's obviously very small in the context of FPL's overall gas needs.
So what we are also asking for is approval of a set of guidelines which would allow us to move forward with the potential to execute additional deals on a time frame that's consistent with the commercial realities of doing business in that upstream space.
Obviously the decision-making time frame commercially for the plans in that sector is fairly rapid and we would want to have agreement and essentially the blessing of the PSC that within certain parameters we would be okay to go ahead with additional deals.
Having said that all deals even if they're executed are going to be subject to annual review through the fuel clause filings so the commission would still maintain oversight over the specifics of each transaction.
Research Division</strong> And how comfortable do you guys feel about the scaling of those projects? And how much fuel would you like to ultimately have from controlled reserves versus buying in the market? Well we haven't set an ultimate target yet.
Obviously it could be very significant over time.
Our main focus is on establishing the framework and getting started on the program but clearly we think there are plenty of other potential opportunities over time.
They may not come in a smooth steady stream.
Obviously that's going to depend upon the commercial realities in the upstream space.
But it's very clear that from a customer perspective if we can convert what is today a variable and uncontrolled cost into something that's much more predictable there's real value to customers in doing that.
We'll take our next question from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Can you kind of just think about your rationale of not stripping out that $0.15 and kind of given that we are incurring that now and guidance is unchanged where the upside came from to maintain guidance? Well there's a number of areas.
As we said the wind resource was strong so that was our expectations are always around this average wind resource.
We had that.
The Seabrook outage was shorter than we'd expected.
Some of the customer supply transactions that we closed this quarter pushed us a little bit above where we had otherwise expected to be.
We were a little bit better on our interest rates.
There was a whole variety of areas but when you put them all together -- there was also a little bit on the FPL side.
The wholesale results were a little bit stronger there so there was a number of areas that have pushed us up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in a couple of places in your slide deck on the one hand we had 109% of normal wind.
But then when you're talking about NEP you said the wind and solar resources was very slightly above normal.
Is this just the different geographies of the assets? It's probably the different geographies and probably the solar was actually below expectations.
Research Division</strong> And then -- I'm sorry just got -- do you have a pro forma of what NextEra Energy Resources would have looked like under the new NEP accounting? No we don't.
We will take our next question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So kind of a twin question relating to the parent company.
Can you talk a little bit about how to minimize dilution from the sell-downs to NEP and the roll-down of the ROFOs.
And perhaps coupled with that discuss the 2016 outlook.
You mentioned that you're looking for clarity on a few caveats later this year to perhaps provide an update.
What are those key moving variables that limit you from providing that update today as you think about it? Okay.
On the first -- again maybe I'm just repeating what I said earlier but the way to think about the proceeds coming up as they get rolled into the overall financing program.
So in the short term if you have a particular transaction an acquisition by NEP of Energy Resources' assets there will be some temporary accounting dilutive aspect until you have moved forward and adjusted your financing structure so that your credit metrics are back where they would be but that's going to be a relatively small amount.
So it shouldn't meaningfully move the numbers.
It will make this year for example very -- well maybe there's $0.01 of effective dilution from that affect so -- but then going forward we just integrate it into the overall financing plan.
On the 2016 outlook obviously by the end of the year we will know where we are on the election here in Florida.
We'll have a much better insight into where we are on completing the portfolio the backlog portfolio of renewables and projects we're working on a number of things there that we are pretty optimistic will come to pass but we'll know a lot more by the end of the year on that front.
Of course the other thing is we'll know a lot more where we are on the PTC.
Research Division</strong> Right absolutely and to that point can you discuss real quickly what is your -- you didn't change your outlook per se but I'm curious is the potential for PTC extension delaying PPA sign-ups? And then coupled with that also are you -- what is the outlook for third-party acquisitions? And has your view on third-party acquisitions down at the NEP level changed in light of the relative currency that you have in hand? Julien it's Armando.
I think the uncertainty about the PTC and when it would be extended this year certainly caused a lull in our view in [Audio Gap] towards the very end of the session this year.
I'll let Moray answer the NEP question.
So in terms of outlook for third-party acquisitions I don't think the existence of NEP has fundamentally changed our view.
We've always been very active in the market for third-party acquisitions.
We'll continue to be but we've also historically been disciplined in our pricing there and we expect to continue to be disciplined.
I do think it gives us a different vehicle.
So depending upon the nature of the potential acquisition it might fit better in NEP or it might fit better in Energy Resources.
In general I think that if we see something that requires what I'll call a fair degree of cleanup for example perhaps a project that hypothetically we see having some operational improvement potential or requiring a contract restructuring something of that nature.
Other things equal it would seem logical that we would start with that at the Energy Resources level work on making those improvements and then make it available to Energy Partners because the key part of the strategy at NEP is to have clean and derisked projects because those are clearly what the investors in NEP value very highly.
So to the extent to which the potential asset was already very clean in that sense it might be a suitable candidate for direct acquisition by Energy Partners.
But those are just kind of a conceptual guidelines obviously that we'd have to see in any practical situation.
But I think we'll continue to be very competitive.
We will take our next question with Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Sort of quickly on Slide 7 the load growth -- I'm sorry if I missed -- what caused the 1.3% nonweather-related decrease? Well I guess the bottom line is we're not sure.
That's the underlying usage growth and other is essentially a residual from our calculations.
So we apply our regular forecasting model which says okay given what happened with temperature given what happened with the economy given what happened with relative pricing here is what we should have expect and so this is really measured relative to that which is one of the reasons that it is often volatile from quarter-to-quarter.
Having said that I think what we're seeing in here although I can't be sure of the exact reasons is some reduction in usage or lower-than-expected usage among the higher volume customers because the lower volume customers the metrics associated with them all look pretty good.
So I think what we're seeing is some -- among higher-volume customers whether that is deliberate conservation efforts whether it's the effect of more energy efficiency than we have anticipated we're not sure.
So we're going to be digging into those numbers to figure out what we can about what's going on there.
But do recognize that from quarter-to-quarter just mix impacts within the customer base can have quite an impact an indirect impact on that residual usage.
Okay.
And then on Oncor looking at the legislation that was 13-64 [ph] last year regarding the sort of standalone tax concept and what-have-you how should one think about -- or what can you share with us the potential use of leverage in an acquisition such as Oncor? I mean one might think that it could be substantial.
I'm just wondering if...
Yes.
I really can't say anything more than we shared in the prepared remarks.
Okay.
Fair enough but I tried though.
Okay so then -- and then finally on the structured transactions in the trading and marketing of $0.07 could you give us a little bit of flavor for what happened there? What the nature of that is I guess? Sure.
We've for a long time been in the business of tailoring power and gas products to meet particular customers' needs.
Commonly these customers are munis and co-ops in different parts of the country who don't necessarily have the capability to manage all their varying energy needs directly.
And typically these will be for kind of nonstandard amounts of power varying over the course of the year or varying over years.
So they're sort of customized products in that way but they're still relatively straightforward in that they're power and gas delivered to particular locations.
And so we will customize the product to meet that need and then essentially back-to-back it hedge out the components in the regular market.
And there's obviously a spread to be made on that.
I would say that with the pullback of some of the major financial services firms from the physical commodity world we've been seeing perhaps a few more of those kinds of opportunities more recently.
So it's good business it maintains relationships with the folks who are often customers of ours on the wind side.
So it provides a nice extra portion of the mix.
Okay.
Is it sort of like a gain-on-sale though when you do these transactions? Or is this sort of an accrual kind of -- how should we think about sort of the ongoing nature of something like this sort of structured transaction in other words do you take a gain as you do these transactions or is there more like an annuity stream? How should we think about that? It's a little bit of both and it depends on the nature of the transaction.
Mostly they are an accrual transaction; occasionally they may have an element of mark-to-market upfront.
We try and minimize that portion for obvious reasons.
It's better to spread them out over time.
But depending upon the specific nature of the deal the accounting may require you to take a day 1 gain so to speak.
So that $0.
07 just sort of -- the flavor of that would you say is mostly accrual or mostly sort of mark-to-market? Onetime-ish? How should we sort of think about that? I would say it's mostly stuff that continues on.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of things.
First do you an official schedule for the EMP [ph] approval? I'm going to turn to Eric.
I'm not sure that the PSC has formally scheduled it.
We're certainly hoping to have a decision by at least the early part of next year.
Steve this is Eric.
So we're right now working with the staff of the PSC and other interested parties on schedule.
We're hoping for hearings in October and then we're still hoping for a decision by the PSC sometime by the end of the year beginning of next year at the latest.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on NEP.
We never really because of the filing and your kind of inability to comment once you file the S-1.
We never really got the kind of story on why this is good for NextEra and how you made the decision and the like.
And I don't know if you could just spend a short bit of time on how this is -- how you see the value of this to NextEra? Sure.
Obviously there's different ways of looking at it -- and I think different individuals look at it somewhat differently -- for myself I view it very much as a way to highlight the value of a very attractive portion of the portfolio that arguably wasn't receiving full value in the existing structure.
As I had sort of hinted at in the response to an earlier question a lot of what we are really doing in separating out the assets that are part of NEP is segregating 2 distinct aspects of the business in Energy Resources.
There is the development construction early stage operations getting a project to the point where it is as I referred to it earlier clean and derisked.
And then there's the long-term ownership of the financial interest in those assets.
Those 2 aspects of the business are really quite different.
They have different risk profiles and they can certainly appeal in differing degrees to different sets of investors.
And what we've done through creating NEP is we've really created a vehicle that allows us to segregate those activities.
And in so doing I think we've highlighted begun to highlight the real value of those -- of that long-term financial interest in those projects.
So to me it's mostly about highlighting of the value but we've done so in a fashion that I believe promotes alignment of interests and that speaks to obviously the structural characteristics of NEP.
Other people are going to see it somewhat differently.
So a common way but certainly a number of investors have expressed it and folks internally just see it as accessing a lower-cost source of capital.
So I think there's a number of ways in a sense different sides of the same coin but I see it as really highlighting the value.
We will take our next question from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One or 2 nuts-or-bolts questions.
Florida Power &amp; Light O&amp;M for the quarter and year-to-date basically flat year-over-year.
Just curious is there anything unusual in kind of the quarters for 2014? Do you still expect kind of flattish O&amp;M in '14? Anything that could make second half of 2014 higher or lower than second half of 2013? Well recall that we undertook this initiative that we call Project Momentum last year.
And that produced a great many ideas that in FPL's case will deliver O&amp;M savings over time.
Not surprisingly those savings tend to build over time.
So we would expect the full year for 2014 O&amp;M at FPL actually to be down relative to 2013.
So you should definitely expect the second half to be down.
But there's nothing particular that I can point to there because the gains from Project Momentum were very widely shared across different parts of the organization.
So it's really progress in all areas.
We're very pleased with the way the implementation of those initiatives have been going.
We're actually a little bit ahead of where we had expected to be.
Recall of course that those don't directly affect FPL earnings because of the nature of the settlement agreement.
So if we do better than we expect on O&amp;M that simply gets reflected in the amount of [indiscernible] depreciation that we adjust.
But that's really what's going on there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when thinking about NEP's portfolio over time and when I say over time I mean multiple multiple years and the risk profile of NEP.
Just curious for your thoughts it's one thing we've got renewable assets in there that honestly have very very very low maintenance CapEx or even kind of onetime CapEx requirements and have 25- or 30-year contracts.
How do you think about what adding other types of assets whether it's gas fire power play [ph] typically have shorter-term contracts or whether it's nuclear where they may have longer-term arrangement but there's also I don't know kind of binary capital spending risks? Meaning Crystal River 3 or Songs [ph] or Davis Besse-related risks that just kind of don't exist with a lot of other type of power plants.
How do you think about the pros and cons of adding to the EBITDA and the cafte [ph] for NextEra Energy Partners by putting nonrenewable assets? Even something like a T&amp;D utility in there versus the potential impact on maybe valuation or multiples or CapEx given kind of what the CapEx risk looks likes for those other types of assets versus the CapEx risk of a renewable plant? Okay.
Let me try and address that in a number of pieces because I think there's a lot of things in there.
I think the short answer is we are going to evaluate all those issues that you've just talked about over time and we're going to receive I suspect a lot of investor feedback and that will help us in our evaluation.
One of the great things you pointed out but you're talking many years down the road -- one of the great things about the NEP position is it can look to long-term sustained growth simply through adding contracted renewable projects which it may hope to acquire from the sponsor so long before you have to even consider some of the things that you've just raised in your question.
Having said that let me take the [indiscernible] assets clearly there are examples in the market where those assets have been added to a yieldco-type portfolio so it clearly can be done.
I think there are a couple of issues that go different ways.
On the one hand you get an extra dimension of diversity so that should be attractive to an NEP investor.
But as you pointed out they do have different characteristics.
So I think we're just going to have to evaluate the relative weight of those -- broadly speaking those 2 factors and see what investor reactions are.
And the same general criteria apply as you start thinking about extending the universe of assets more broadly although introducing even more complexities.
So for example in the nuclear assets obviously the binary nature of an event risk that you're implicitly referring to would need to be taken into account.
I don't know but I suspect that that's not a kind of risk profile that most of the NEP investors would be particularly -- would be pricing into their valuation today.
So we need to see what the reaction is.
So there might be structures that you would need to put in place to isolate that portion of the risk.
In a sense it goes back to the response of a couple of earlier questions which is one of the nice things about the NEP platform is that it enables us to segregate out different types of activities and focus them in the 2 different companies.
And in particular I suspect that means there will be -- we will take on specific types of risks within Energy Resources and NextEra Energy that we would not take on within NextEra Energy Partners.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question any update on transmission investment opportunities -- electric transmission investment opportunities outside of Florida? Not a lot new to report.
As I've said on a number of occasions to many folks the transmission development business is long-term in nature.
The decision-making time frame for a lot of these projects particularly the ones that go through the regional the ISOs the ITOs tends to be fairly long.
And so nothing in particular the project the development project in Canada is moving along as we would expect.
We continue to have a very healthy portfolio of initiatives that we're working on.
But as I've also said many times before all of these things are long-term in nature.
So things that would not begin to contribute before 2018 or 2019 in most cases.
We will take our next question from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
First on the TXU transaction.
I know you can't comment specifically on it but can I ask a broader question with regard to your philosophy on acquiring regulated assets? So when you talk -- when you think about what acceptable financial and risk parameters are in any like acquisitions with any regulated utility what are the cornerstones sort of financial pillars of your decision-making? For instance with the Wisconsin acquisition of TEG they had never commented explicitly on any transaction but always had said had to be accretive in the first full year not too dilutive to growth rate not too dilutive to credit.
So can you sort of give a comparable set of characteristics that you look for when you think about the price you're willing to pay and the risk you're willing to take in acquiring an additional regulated asset? I'm not sure I can give a comprehensive list but let me just try and provide some color at least around that.
Recognize that your ability to add value in these situations depends upon your ability to develop synergies across 2 platforms to improve operations in a platform that you may acquire or to find other ways of delivering incremental value on which the shareholder may hope to earn a regulated rate of return.
So you have to look at what is the realistic potential to create value.
And while that can be quite meaningful in this industry it is typically not as large when expressed as a percentage of the existing market value as you will see in many other industries.
So you've got to make sure that you can retain significant portion of the value that you create for your investors; otherwise there's no point in doing the transaction.
And that obviously in turn depends upon the terms on which you can expect to get regulatory approval.
We would certainly want to make sure that anything that we do is supportive of our existing credit position.
As we said on many occasions we're very comfortable with our credit position it's an important competitive weapon to us.
So we certainly would not want it to be dilutive to credit.
We have traditionally said that with respect to accretion dilution while we don't have any absolute hard-and-fast rules if a transaction is significantly dilutive in the first couple of years that's usually a warning sign about its fundamental economics.
So there can be some particular accounting reasons why an individual transaction might be dilutive in the first year but normally that should be a red flag.
Research Division</strong> The final question is circling back to the opportunity to create value by hedging out your risk through reverse integrating into natural gas.
Someone asked you that question earlier.
You indicated that the request that you're making is only to sort of hedge out about 2.9% of your expected 2015 gas burn and your gas burn is likely to rise in the future by a fair amount.
If we want to sort of size up the potential expenditures if you were to fully hedge and I understand you'd never do that is it fair to just take the $70 million to $190 million range and sort of gross that up so that hypothetically if the regulator were to say look we'd like you to hedge it all that the range of the potential spending would be sort of $2.4 billion to $6.5 billion? Or is that way over simplifying the math? Yes.
I'm not sure that it's going to scale linearly certainly as you get up higher and higher but for the first few percent it probably is not far off.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners Conference Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Amanda Finnis.
Thank you Hanna.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the third quarter 2014 combined conference call for NextEra Energy and for NextEra Energy Partners.
With me this morning are Jim Robo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources all of whom are also officers of NextEra Energy Partners as well as Eric Silagy President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company.
Moray will provide an overview and our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making forward-looking statements during this call based on current expectations and assumptions which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward- looking statements if any of our key assumptions are correct or because of other factors discussed in todays release in the comments made during this conference call in the risk factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found on our websites www.nexteraenergy.com and www.nexteraenergypartners.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Todays presentation also references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to information contained in the slides accompanying todays presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Amanda and good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy had a very good third quarter with strong performance at both FPL and Energy Resources.
At Florida Power &amp; Light earnings per share increased approximately 6% over the prior year comparable quarter driven roughly equally by our continued commitment of new capital to the business and by growth in wholesale power sales.
Operationally our performance was strong despite a challenging period of summer weather as our investments in our transmission and distribution network are helping us deliver improvements in our system reliability.
We continue to make good progress on the third of three generation modernization projects at Port Everglades which remains on track to achieve commercial operation in mid-2016.
Our gas reserves petition advanced through the regulatory process and we expect the Public Service Commission to consider the matter in early December which we expect will permit a decision either late this year or early next year.
Also during the quarter the Florida Supreme Court unanimously affirmed the Commissions decision to approve our 2012 rate case settlement.
The courts order comprehensively rejected all the arguments raised by The Office of Public Counsel and made it very clear that as long as the PSC follows appropriate procedures as it did in 2012 it has wide latitude to determine whether a settlement agreement is in the public interest taking account of all the prevailing facts and circumstances.
We believe this is a very positive development that will encourage and support our efforts to negotiate future settlement agreements that like the 2012 agreement have new and innovative elements in them.
Energy Resources had an outstanding quarter.
Adjusted earnings per share increased roughly 16% over the prior year comparable quarter primarily as a result of additional investments in our contracted renewables business and the business enjoyed great success in terms of new renewables origination activity signing contracts for a total of approximately 445 megawatts of new wind and solar projects.
Beyond this we see strong prospects for signing another 600 to 800 megawatts by the end of the year.
It was an excellent quarter for new origination activity with very strong near-term prospects.
At NextEra Energy Partners operational performance during the quarter was solid and cash available for distribution was in line with our expectations.
Yesterday the NEP Board declared an initial quarterly distribution of $18.75 per common unit or $0.75 per common unit on an annualized basis.
And just as important we have made excellent progress around key decisions that will affect the future growth prospects for NEP.
The Conflicts Committee of the NEP Board composed of independent directors reached agreement with the sponsor to acquire two additional assets from the Energy Resources portfolio.
And more generally we completed the first phase of our ongoing analysis of future growth and concluded that it is in the interests of both the shareholders of NEE and the LP unitholders of NEP to undertake a short-term acceleration of the NEP growth profile while still preserving the expectation of continued long-term growth in the 12% to 15% per year range for many years to come.
I will provide more details on each of these later in the call.
Overall we are very pleased with our progress this quarter.
Now lets look at the results for FPL.
For the third quarter of 2014 FPL reported net income of $462 million or $1.05 per share up $0.06 per share year-over-year.
Continued investment in the business and an expansion of wholesale operations were the two principal drivers of growth.
FPLs capital expenditures were approximately $670 million in the quarter and we expect our full-year capital investments to be roughly $3.1 billion.
Regulatory capital employed grew 5.2% over the same quarter last year.
Our principal current generation initiative is the Port Everglades Energy Center which will deliver fuel efficiency savings and emissions reductions to our customers when it enters service in 2016.
This approximately $1 billion project remains on schedule and on budget.
We are also focused on investing in our transmission and distribution network to improve its resilience during severe weather such as hurricanes as well as to provide increased reliability to our customers on a daily basis.
As I mentioned earlier this year presented one of the more challenging periods of summer weather and what we are seeing in terms of our ability to improve our already outstanding reliability is encouraging.
Comparing against years that have had similarly challenging weather we estimate that the reliability of our network measured in terms of system unavailability has improved by 10% to 15%.
This means fewer minutes of interruption for our customers and lower outage repair costs for the company.
Our reported ROE for regulatory purposes for the 12 months ended September 2014 will be approximately 11.4%.
As you may recall from prior quarters this includes the impact of transition costs associated with our enterprise-wide productivity initiative Project Momentum incurred late last year.
The impact of the 2013 transition costs will roll-off our reported regulatory ROE as we move through the year since the regulatory ROE is measured on a 12-month trailing basis.
Absent these costs regulatory ROE would have been 11.5% and this remains our target for the full-year 2014.
As a reminder under the current rate agreement we record reserve amortization entries to achieve a pre-determined regulatory ROE for each 12-month trailing period in this case the 11.5% that I previously mentioned excluding special charges such as the Project Momentum transition costs.
During the third quarter we reversed all $131 million of reserve amortization that we had taken this year through June.
The need for reserve amortization is generally the lowest in the third quarter since the third quarter is typically our strongest in terms of revenue and our non-fuel O&amp;M expenses in the third quarter of this year were actually lower than in the third quarter of 2013 reflecting the excellent results of our productivity improvement initiative Project Momentum.
Relative to our expectations at the time we first discussed Project Momentum in the spring of 2013 we are seeing earlier delivery of results and likely greater overall savings.
Incidentally our ability to shift focus to a comprehensive multiyear effort like this is just one example of the benefits that will flow to customers over time from a settlement agreement like our 2012 rate agreement.
During the fourth quarter we expect to further reduce the amount of reserve amortization by reversing some of the amortization that was taken in 2013 the first year of the settlement agreement.
As a reminder we utilized $155 million of reserve amortization during 2013.
Assuming normal weather and operating conditions we expect to be able to reverse a third to a half of that amount in the fourth quarter.
The economic recovery in Florida remains solid.
A focused effort of the states leadership on economic development along with a consistent improvement in the business climate has helped to drive growth in employment.
The number of jobs in Florida as of September was up 206 000 compared to a year earlier an increase of 2.7%.
Nearly 700 000 jobs have now been added since the bottom of the downturn in 2009.
Floridas seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in September was 6.1% down 0.8 percentage points from a year ago.
As an indicator of new construction new building permits remain at healthy levels albeit lower than their recent peak.
The Case-Shiller Index in South Florida shows home prices up 10% from the prior year and mortgage delinquency rates continue to decline.
Turning now to our customer and usage metrics.
FPLs average number of customers in the third quarter increased by 82 000 or 1.8% with an estimated impact on sales of 1.2%.
Similar to prior quarters the estimated impact on sales is slightly lower than the customer count growth because the remote connect and disconnect capability enabled by our smart meter program continues to account for a portion of that customer growth and these new customers are disproportionately low usage and residential.
We began deploying the remote connect and disconnect switches in the third quarter of 2013 and were fully deployed by the end of the fourth quarter.
Consequently we expect the growth in customer count year-over-year to revert in coming quarters to an underlying rate of about 1.3% to 1.5% percent or 60 000 to 70 000 customer additions annually.
Overall usage per customer grew by 1.9% of which weather accounted for roughly 0.8%.
Weather normalized usage per customer increased 1.1% compared to the same quarter last year.
This was a very strong rebound from the year-over-year decline in the second quarter but as we have often said this measure can be volatile on a quarterly basis.
Through the period of the rate agreement our expectations of underlying usage growth are unchanged at approximately 0.5% per year.
The average number of inactive accounts in September declined 20.8% from the prior year and the percent of inactive accounts is now at a level well below the 20-year average.
As of September the 12-month average of low usage customers fell to 8.0% down from 8.3% in September 2013.
Before leaving FPL let me update you on the two capital initiatives that we discussed in the spring of last year that have been pushed back a bit.
First we are continuing to monitor the actual emissions profile of our peaking units in Broward County.
Based on the results of this testing we will determine what the most cost-effective upgrade path will be for our customers.
We continue to expect the need to modernize and upgrade these assets but the exact size and scope of the project remains uncertain.
Construction is not likely to start before 2016.
Second since completing our first 110 megawatts of solar in Florida we have been working hard to identify ways in which we can cost-effectively introduce more solar capacity into our system.
Distributed solar especially residential remains extremely high cost relative to our efficient generation fleet and will only serve to drive up customer rates if pursued in any quantity.
Even utility-scale solar which is by far the most cost-efficient way of adding renewable energy in our service territory is not yet at a stage to be generally cost-effective across our entire service territory.
However we have continued to work to identify specific opportunities and now believe we can bring forward three roughly 75 megawatt solar PV projects that can take advantage of the 2016 ITC window leverage available land transmission capacity as well as prior permitting and development work and that will prove cost-effective for our customers.
We expect to bring these projects into service in 2016.
Moreover we continue to believe that with reasonably foreseeable continued improvements in solar economics there could be greater potential for utility-scale solar by the end of the decade.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported third quarter 2014 GAAP earnings of $204 million or $0.46 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter were $231 million or $0.52 per share.
Before reviewing the details let me provide a reminder about the interrelationship between Energy Resources and NEP.
As you know the launch of NEP closed on July 1.
Energy Resources will continue to consolidate NEP for accounting purposes but beginning with this quarter you will see a deduction for income representing NEP LP unitholders interests in NEPs results.
Energy Resources adjusted EPS increased by $0.07 per share year-over-year.
The contribution from new wind and solar additions placed into service during or after the third quarter of 2013 was $0.09 per share and this continued growth in our contracted renewables business was the primary driver of Energy Resources growth.
Our customer supply and trading business had a modest positive increase in contribution of $0.03 per share driven mostly by favorable summer results in retail and wholesale full requirements.
A mild summer is typically favorable for these parts of the portfolio.
Wind resource came in at roughly 95% of the long-term average which was roughly comparable to last year and the existing asset portfolio added 1$0.01 per share overall.
Offsetting these gains was a $0.03 per share decline in contribution from our gas infrastructure business due to increased depreciation expense primarily related to higher depletion rates.
All other factors reduced results by $0.03 cents per share.
For the full-year we continue to expect to elect CITCs on roughly 265 megawatts for our Mountain View solar project and the portions of Genesis and Desert Sunlight solar projects that are expected to enter service in 2014.
This equates to roughly $60 million in adjusted earnings down from roughly $70 million in 2013 on 280 megawatts of solar projects.
As I mentioned earlier the team has driven significant growth in our portfolio of contracted renewables opportunities.
Let me spend a bit of time now on where each program now stands.
Our total 2013 to 2016 U.S.
solar program is now roughly 1 400 megawatts.
This includes roughly 304 megawatts newly added to the backlog since the last call and is approximately 300 megawatts better than the high-end of our expectations at the time of the March 2013 Investor Conference.
All of these new projects are expected to be in operation by the end of 2016.
There are also a number of other projects that we continue to pursue and we now believe that our total 2013 to 2016 U.S.
solar program could be 1 600 to 1 800 megawatts.
Turning to our wind programs our U.S.
development program for 2013 to 2015 is now nearly 1 900 megawatts.
This includes 91 megawatts newly added to the backlog since the last call.
Based on everything we see at the moment we now believe our total 2013 to 2015 U.S.
wind program could exceed our previously stated range of up to 2 500 megawatts.
In Canada we added a new approximately 50 megawatt project to the backlog which we expect to enter operations in 2016.
Since the last call we brought into service roughly 75 megawatts of solar 199 megawatts of U.S.
wind and 133 megawatts of Canadian wind a total of over 400 megawatts.
Not only are these very attractive assets in their own right but we also believe that we have unlocked the potential to better highlight their value by isolating a portion of the portfolio and making the cash flows visible to investors through the creation of NEP.
Let me now review the highlights for NEP.
During the third quarter NEPs initial portfolio delivered cash available for distribution or CAFD of $27 million which was in line with our expectations.
Full financial results will be available when we file the 10-Q.
The assets operated well and wind and solar resource were near normal.
Overall there is nothing at this time that causes us to change the expectations that we have previously shared for these assets for the 12-month period ending June 30 2015.
As I mentioned earlier NEP has entered into agreements to expand its portfolio through two project acquisitions from NextEra Energy.
The first of these is Palo Duro an approximately 250 megawatt wind project in Texas that will sell 100% of its output under a 20-year PPA.
It is expected to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Palo Duro is not part of the ROFO portfolio.
We expect to earn PTCs on the project and to enter into a differential partnership or tax equity structure that we expect will make the project very attractive to NEP investors.
In essence we expect our tax equity partners to make a portion of their contributions to the project through ongoing payments in exchange for receiving PTCs.
We expect this to result in an overall project cash flow profile that fits the NEP model.
The second acquisition is Shafter a 20 megawatt solar project in California that will sell 100% of its output under a 20-year PPA.
It is expected to enter service in the second quarter of 15 and is a part of the ROFO portfolio.
NEP expects to acquire both projects in the first quarter of 2015 for total consideration of approximately $291 million plus the assumption of approximately $250 million in tax equity financing which is expected to close in December for Palo Duro and subject to working capital adjustments.
The $150 million of primary proceeds retained from the IPO will support a portion of the acquisition.
The remaining consideration of roughly $141 million will be financed in the short-term through the utilization of NEPs revolving credit facility in addition to cash on hand at the time of the transactions.
Since the revolver is not expected to be utilized for longer-term capital requirements we expect to replace this interim financing with equity and potentially incremental project debt at some point in 2015.
NEP expects the impact of these acquisitions to increase 2015 adjusted EBITDA and CAFD by roughly $60 million to $70 million and $15 million to $25 million respectively and to increase the annual run rate of adjusted EBITDA and CAFD by roughly $65 million to $75 million and $20 million to $30 million respectively.
We expect additional acquisition opportunities to become available as well and I will talk more in a moment about our current thoughts on overall expected growth.
Turning now to the consolidated results for NextEra Energy.
For the third quarter of 2014 GAAP net income attributable to NextEra Energy was $660 million or $1.50 per share.
NextEra Energys 2014 third quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $688 million and $1.55 respectively.
Adjusted earnings from the corporate and other segment decreased $0.01 per share compared to the third quarter of 2013.
The development of both Sabal Trail Transmission pipeline and Florida Southeast Connection pipeline continue to progress well through their respective processes.
Florida Southeast Connection filed its FERC certificate application in September 2014 and Sabal Trail continues to refine the route with the expectation to file its FERC certificate application in November 2014.
Both projects expect FERC authorization by year-end 2015 to support commercial operation by mid-2017.
During the quarter we completed the formation of our Mountain Valley Pipeline joint-venture with EQT Corporation.
In addition the joint-venture completed a binding open season for the roughly 300 mile natural gas pipeline designed to connect the Marcellus and Utica shales with markets in the Southeast region of the U.S.
in order to support growing demand and improvements in reliability.
After concluding the open season the project has secured approximately 2 Bcf per day of 20-year firm capacity commitments.
Based on our expected ownership share the expected size of our capital opportunity is approximately $1.0 billion to $1.4 billion.
Both companies have received Board approval to move ahead with the project.
Looking ahead at NextEra Energy we continue to expect full-year EPS to be in the range of $5.15 to $5.35 and this range includes the negative impact of about $0.15 associated with the launch of NEP that we discussed in the second quarter earnings release.
Having completed a closer review of the 2015 outlook we now see a range of $5.40 to $5.70 as being reasonable.
We expect to see a few cents of drag associated with the combination of the accelerated transfer of assets to NEP which I will discuss further in a moment as well as higher capital spending associated with the more rapid evolution of the Energy Resources backlog.
The accelerated transfers would give us more equity than we need to maintain our target credit metrics other things being equal.
And we can utilize this extra equity to support the additional CapEx without recourse to the equity markets.
These effects are reflected in the $5.40 to $5.70 range.
In the slides accompanying todays presentation we have also provided new disclosure for our expectations for the Energy Resources portfolio focusing on our expectations for adjusted EBITDA and cash flow for 2015.
Please note that this view of 2015 does not yet reflect the impact of the anticipated accelerated growth at NEP.
For 2016 we are maintaining our current expectations of $5.50 to $6.00 for the moment and we expect to be able to provide an update with the fourth quarter earnings release in January.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats including but not limited to normal weather and operating conditions.
Starting in 2016 we expect to see reflected in GAAP income the effects of asset transfers to NEP.
Because of the subordination provisions governing NEEs LP unit gains on these transfers are currently deferred until one year after NEP pays distributions at a level of $1.13 corresponding to the high splits in the IDR structure.
At that point we expect to start amortizing any gains from sales of assets to NEP over the life of the assets.
Looking beyond 2016 while we are not yet in a position to provide a specific numerical range for earnings it is clear from the development of our capital deployment initiatives that we are well positioned to sustain our strong growth profile.
We expect to be able to sustain the 5% to 7% per year growth in EPS off a 2014 base at least through 2018 assuming all our capital initiatives continue along their current path.
In addition everything we see suggests that our operating cash flow will continue to grow more rapidly than EPS during this period and we expect average growth of operating cash flow in the 8% to 10% per year range through 2018.
With the proposed acceleration in the growth of NEP which I will detail in a moment we should also see the IDR cash flow stream at NEE grow rapidly so that by 2018 this could amount to somewhere between $75 million and $100 million per year.
This is included in our overall expectations of cash flow growth.
Turning now to NEP.
We expect the initial portfolio to deliver roughly $270 million to $280 million of adjusted EBITDA in the first 12 months yielding cash available for distribution or CAFD of nearly $85million to $95 million.
For the full-year 2015 taking into account all the asset acquisitions we are now contemplating we expect the NEP portfolio to generate adjusted EBITDA of $400 million to $440 million and CAFD of $100 million to $120 million.
This would support a distribution level at an annualized rate of $1.125 which corresponds to the upper tier of the IDR splits by the end of 2015 or possibly slightly earlier.
Again the disclosure in the appendix does not yet reflect the impact of this acceleration of growth at NEP since we have not yet determined the specific projects that will be made available to NEP.
We expect to update our disclosure when a more specific plan is in place.
After 2015 we currently see 12% to 15% per year growth in LP distributions as being a reasonable range of expectations for at least the next five years.
Let me now spend a moment explaining our logic for accelerating the short-term growth of NEP and why we think it will be good both for NEP LP unitholders and for NextEra shareholders.
We have spent the last few weeks examining in more detail different scenarios for NEP acquisitions of Energy Resources projects.
Weve also spent considerable time asking questions of our investors and considering their input.
While we retain accountability for our decisions we recognize that many investors have been thinking about the same issues and we value the input we have received.
We recognize that other things equal if there is value to be created by transferring an asset to NEP in general it will be better to do so earlier rather than later subject to the project being sufficiently far along in development and construction to fit the NEP competitive model.
At the same time NEPs competitive positioning is strongly supported by the long runway of growth that it can reasonably expect to offer investors given the large portfolio of Energy Resources projects that it can hope to acquire.
As we have studied in the portfolio more closely and considered how it may evolve we have come to the conclusion that we can support a short-term acceleration of growth while still preserving reasonable expectations of growth in the 12% to 15% per year range for several years thereafter.
We think this profile is more attractive to NEP investors than simply continuing the 12% to 15% growth rate and maintaining more assets in the Energy Resources portfolio for a longer period of time.
Two factors in particular have changed since we launched NEP.
First as weve discussed weve been working on a tax equity structure that we now think will enable us to make some projects available to NEP earlier than we had previously expected.
And of course the Palo Duro project discussed earlier is an example of this.
Second again as discussed earlier the development pipeline and backlog at Energy Resources have continued to evolve in a very positive fashion over the last few months and nothing has changed our view that the longer term prospects for renewables development in the U.S.
particularly with the prospect of EPA regulation of carbon dioxide emissions are very favorable.
These factors in our judgment support an acceleration of NEP growth.
From an NEP LP unitholders perspective there are two other secondary factors that also support this proposed shift.
First investors have noted that NEP currently offers limited liquidity simply because of its size and accelerating the growth in the short-term should improve liquidity.
And second although the initial portfolio is broad and diverse accelerating the growth will enable the portfolio to become broader and more diversified which again should be a positive for NEP investors.
Finally from a NextEra Energy shareholder perspective accelerating the growth of NEP will also mean that the upper tier of the IDR splits will be reached more rapidly than we had originally thought.
While this doesnt change the fundamental value proposition we think it will serve to highlight a portion of the NEE value proposition which perhaps today is not widely recognized among NEE investors.
We estimate that the IDR cash flow stream could be worth $5 to $10 per share later in the decade.
For all these reasons we have concluded that accelerating the growth of NEP over the next twelve months or so while still retaining reasonable expectations of sustained growth in the 12% 15% per year range for several years thereafter makes sense for both sets of investors.
At this point we are not prepared to discuss the specific assets that NEP expects to acquire as we are still working through the details.
However this accelerated growth profile is still likely to be dominated by the same kinds of high-quality long-term contracted renewables projects that characterize the initial portfolio.
Longer term it may well make sense to broaden the NEP portfolio into new asset classes but for the short-term we believe continuing to focus primarily on renewables projects makes sense.
To sum up both NEE and NEP had excellent quarters.
Current performance is strong the outlook at least through 2016 is highly visible and we continue to believe that we have some of the best long-term growth prospects in our industry.
All this is supported by a very strong financial position which we expect to maintain.
Our fundamentals are excellent and our growth initiatives continue to evolve in a very positive fashion.
With that we will now open the line for questions.
Since this is a combined conference call for NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners it will be helpful if you can be clear which entity you are referring to in your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And well take our first question from Stephen Byrd from Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Moray I wanted to explore the PTC structure that you outlined that could permit perhaps more assets to be dropped down to NEP earlier than we had expected.
Can you generally speak to that  you mentioned some of the assets could be eligible.
Is this something we should be thinking as fairly broadly eligible for your assets with PTCs or is it a more limited field of assets? Just trying to sort of generally get a feel for how significant this structure is.
Sure.
I guess the first point to be made is it applies to new projects going forward so anything thats already in the portfolio either has a structure against it or probably is very far along in its 10-year window of eligibility and it wouldnt make sense for us to go back to some of those but potentially for all PTC projects going forward subject to available market capacity this could be applicable.
Now when I say available market capacity the tax equity market is a relatively specialized part of the overall capital excess possibilities that we have available to us.
And the capacity of that can vary from year-to-year.
So depending upon just how much capacity there is we determine really how much we can do in any particular year but I think it could be quite broadly applicable going forward.
Thats helpful.
And then just looking at the wind business obviously youve had some great progress in terms of additional contracts and it looks like the outlook is positive for additional contracts.
Could you speak broadly to which parts  within the U.S.
which part of the U.S.
which regions look most attractive in terms of growth is it more the upper Midwest more Texas or which parts of the country are you and your colleagues seeing the most opportunities in? Sure.
I would ask Armando to offer a few more  a little more color but broadly speaking our development efforts have been and will continue to be concentrated on the best wind resource areas because that drives the best economics and that tends to be all up and down in the middle part of the country but Amanda can speak more specifically to some of the areas were focused on.
Sure.
I think its  number one its the middle part of the country.
I call it the Midwest but Im not a geography teacher when I talk about the Midwest its a very broad section starting up in the Dakotas going all the way down to the Texas region including a little bit of Colorado but I would include the Northeast in that.
So its a wide area.
Weve developed very well in the area in the past and we continue to do well.
I think what youll see as some of the newer projects come forward that we do have now some projects actually out in California some wind projects that are starting to make sense.
And we continue to look at the Canadian development for new projects.
And just this past quarter were able to sign another 50 megawatt PPA.
Yes Stephen just to add on.
We have traditionally not focused a great deal of effort on the Northeast and the East Coast and that continues to be the case.
The development challenges are greater our projects tend to be smaller and the wind resource tends to be weaker.
So the overall economics get much more challenging.
So we tend to go where the economics are most favorable.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And well take our next question from Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Dan.
Its very good job with the pipeline additions on the renewable side at NEER.
Can you maybe talk a little more A on the wind side if youre going to qualify for the PTCs or if you need an extension on PTCs to hit the upper end of the new guidance range? And then on the solar additions kind of what markets youre seeing better opportunity or youre even to add more significant backlog? Sure.
Again Ill ask Armando to comment.
All right.
Good morning Dan.
Everything that we announced today on the wind side and including the potential to go over the high-end of the range would be built in 2015 or by the end of 2015.
And we feel very comfortable that they would all qualify for the production tax credits.
Interestingly enough Id say over the last two to three months weve started to get into discussions with some customers that are looking for 2016 wind.
Now obviously those contracts if we sign them with those customers would be PTC contingent but everything that we talked about today would be built by the end of 2015 and would qualify for the PTC.
In terms of solar Id say its just about everywhere.
Were seeing good activity all the way from the south and from the south I would mean anywhere from Texas all the way really to the Southeast United States but were also seeing interest really because of the improvement in economics that the reduction in the panel prices the reduction in the balance of plant were seeing interest all the way up to the Canadian border which is a positive.
The contracts that we announced today we announced I think roughly 304 megawatts of new projects.
Those projects span from California all the way to the Southeast United States.
Okay very good.
And then Moray on the 375 megawatts projects at the utility.
Can you remind us how those will go into rates or how you guys will get recovery on those in the midst of the four year deal you have in place? We would not be looking for any adjustment to the rate agreement.
So we will live with the base rates that we have in place.
Okay very good.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Next well take our question from Steven Fleishman  Wolfe Research.
Hi Moray how are you? Good morning Steve.
Just the first question and Im not sure if you can answer this now but you mentioned the 5% to 7% long-term earnings growth but 8% to 10% long-term cash flow growth.
Could you maybe give us some sense or if Jims there when youre thinking about dividend policy are you going to focus more on earnings growth or cash flow growth? If you recall how we got to  the logic that got us to the current target 55% payout ratio it was fundamentally based on a shift in portfolio mix.
So with the portfolio shifting to a higher concentration of regulated and long-term contracted assets we felt that that supported and justified slightly higher payout ratio than we have had in the past.
If you carry that logic forward while the same trend continues from 2014 on its sort of really at a slower pace.
So at this point I dont see a particular logic for recommending a change in that payout ratio with one possible exception which Ill come back to in a minute but assuming that we go on that obviously means dividend growth roughly in line with EPS growth.
The exception that I have noted on a couple of occasions is should we at some point in the future get to a position where our capital deployment opportunity set starts to slow down then the rapid growth in the cash flows would quickly move us into a free cash flow positive position.
And if you saw that being a sustained phenomenon for multiple years then in that circumstance I think we would be inclined to recommend an increase in the payout ratio.
So I think those are kind of the two broad policy things that keep in mind.
Obviously we are always sensitive to the overall dividend position and how it compares with other companies we are competing for capital against so we will always be taking that into account but from a policy perspective those were the two points I will make.
Okay.
And then I guess a question maybe this is for Jim just historically while youve talked about the 5% to 7% growth and Jim has said it several times he would be disappointed if he didnt hit the upper end of that is that still the view? And just with all these kind of different moving parts it seems like youre executing really well on the growth investment.
Is that going to show up into what kind of youve said on getting to the higher end? Yes Steve.
I will continue to say that Ill be disappointed if we dont in 16 earned at the top end of the range at $6 and well be giving an update on that 16 guidance in January as Moray said earlier on the call.
Okay.
One last quick thing on the Florida solar and you might have answered this but how would those projects work would you just do them and sell the utility under just the current rates or would you look for like the solar clause [ph] or something of that sort? No.
It would be recovered within the current base rates.
Obviously we want to make sure that they are those cost effective solution for our customers were pretty close on that.
We think that we can demonstrate thats the case because these are kind of specific projects where weve already done a lot of work and they happen to be in a particular locations work from a transmission perspective.
So if we can do that we would expect to go ahead and construct them and demonstrate that net-net they are a good deal for customers from a total build perspective in which case they should roll into base rates going forward.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Julien.
So just following up on the latest NEP GP guidance.
The $200 million that was depicted for the end of the decade is that consistent with the 12% to 15% and to the extent to which it is can you give us a sense for dropdown assumptions etcetera that would be baked in? Julien Im not quite sure I followed the question.
Today we talked about $75 million to $100 million around the 2018 time.
If you carry the growth forward a couple of more years yes I think you can reasonably see getting to the $200 million a year level.
I believe that was the number that I mentioned in speech I gave at Platts the other day.
So its really just an extension of the growth profile.
As I said in the prepared remarks we are right now really working through one of the specific asset that it makes most sense to make available to NEP for the short-term acceleration but the longer-term growth profile and expectations are continue to be supported by all the projects in the Energy Resources portfolio that we talked about in the past including potentially contracted fossil assets and including potentially pipeline projects.
In order to be more specific what about the dropdown multiples that youre thinking about broadly is it still kind of in that 9% to 11% range? As a broad generalization yes.
Although one of the things that Ive observed as weve gone through these first transactions is that EBITDA multiple and not necessarily a very good metric for thinking about dropdown valuation because the profile of the projects can be quite different and it depends if you have a project where you have CITC for example whether its pre or post the tax effect.
But we havent really changed our view of the long-term valuation which as I said on several occasions is going to depend upon the individual project first and foremost.
Got you.
And then secondly youve talked about disproportionate cash flow growth.
Obviously some discussions are laid around large utility acquisitions.
What are you thinking about use of cash flow structurally is the business orienting towards more resources-like businesses or are we talking about more utility growth in the future be it outside of FPL or within it etcetera? Well as this actually implicit in the part of my answer to Steves question earlier both sides of the house continue to have very strong growth prospects.
And so as we go forward the balance is remaining roughly equal.
We still continue to become a little bit more regulated and long-term contracted but not greatly so over the next few years.
And so we will continue to pursue the opportunities that we see in the existing portfolio as much as we can.
In terms of third-party acquisitions or corporate large deal acquisitions as weve said before we are in principal open to the possibility.
We dont need to do a big deal.
We continue to be very successful.
Were going to be very disciplined if we do look at anything but its not fundamental to our strategy.
Got you.
And then just a quick clarification to Dans last question on the solar PV side while you might not be filing for it in the immediate sense once you are through the current stay out those would indeed roll into base rates? Sure I would.
Assuming that they indeed act to reduce total customer builds over the long-term then they would roll in the rate base and theyd be reflected in our filings in 2016 assuming we file as we expect to in 2016 and for what revenue rates would go into effect in 2017.
Great.
Excellent thank you Thank you.
And well take our next question from Shar Pourreza with Citigroup.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Just on the solar in Florida.
When you mentioned its the most cost-effective solution for the rate payers are you referring to the projects being at retail rate parity or are we talking more an LCOE reaching like a natural gas high heat rate peaking asset.
So can you just maybe comment on what you mean by cost-effective? Sure.
The way to think about cost-effective is for these projects is to think of them in the context of a constantly evolving integrated resource plan.
So solar in Florida obviously has energy value it also has capacity value based on its coincidence or degree of coincidence with the load curve.
So essentially what we do is in the IRP we plug in different combinations or potential future generation and figure out on a present value basis which of those are cheaper for our customers.
And so if we can get to the stage where as we think we now can with these three specific projects we can introduce them into the mix and have the overall present value as seen through the customers eyes lower.
Thats a good thing for our customers and something that we want to go ahead with.
Got you.
And then with the latest solar projects youve added to your pipeline and then maybe comments that the solar to become very economical at the end of the decade.
Can you just maybe talk about the current LCOE trend versus a higher heat rate peaking asset or are you  with and without the investment tax credit? I can try but its very hard to think about LCOE because you really need to think as Ive just described for the FPL situation in how these assets work into an integrated system.
So youre really not or you shouldnt compare assets side-by-side.
That would maybe be appropriate if you were thinking about building new system from scratch but in our case were talking about introducing new capacity into an existing system.
With that as a caveat however I would say that we are getting to the stage where potentially by the end of the decade assuming that we revert to the 10% ITC thats embedded part of the tax code that in many regions of the southern part of the country we could see something that is competitive on an energy basis with combined cycle unit.
Whether or not that makes it fully competitive on an integrated basis then depends upon capacity value and shape of the load curve and a whole variety of other things in the region that were talking about Got you.
Thats very helpful actually.
And then just lastly on the rate basing of the E&amp;P reserves.
Is there any potential in how large this could be relative to what FPLs gas needs are? I think for the next few years were going to be limited more by sort of the pragmatic factors than theoretical long-term potential.
So in theory if we could get to 30% 40% 50% of the gas burn I think that would be a very attractive proposition from a customer perspective but I think its going to take us time to get there.
I think first of all weve got to get the initial deal approved and up and running and show that that works as we anticipate it will.
And then I think we want to build on that at a moderate pace and demonstrate that the overall strategy is effective.
I think the other factor that could be limiting here is simply the available opportunity set.
FPL is looking for something a little bit different in gas reserves than where the general market is and by that I mean FPL is really obviously focused on dry gas.
And a lot of the places that are being pursued out there tend towards the wetter or oilier spectrum.
So there may be some limitations just driven by the availability of sets.
So all of that is in my mind says that I think we have realistic odds of scaling the thing up to the point where within the next few years we can commit several hundred million dollars of capital each year into it beyond that its too far for us to look right now.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
And well take our next question from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Greg.
So sorry to beat a dead horse on the regulated utility side but just following up on the solar question.
Presumably youre making headroom in under current base rates through the continued improvement in costs under Project Momentum such that you would still expect to be able to earn inside the ROE range until you roll these into base rates? Yes thats generally true not just at these assets but more generally infrastructure CapEx that needs to be recovered under the current  in terms of the current base rate agreement.
Our ability to invest for example in our reliability initiatives is conditional upon our ability to manage the O&amp;M effectively.
So the fact that weve been very effective there and as I said in the prepared remarks ahead of where we expected to be in the sense creates more headroom to allow us to deploy capital.
Now that capital still needs to be productive from a customers viewpoint either increasing reliability or as we just discussed with respect to the solar units improving the long-term cost-effectiveness of the system but assuming it is then from an investor perspective we can sort of afford to accommodate it within the terms of the current settlement agreement.
Great.
Two more questions one on accounting.
You mentioned that the accounting treatment for dropdowns would be to amortize those gains starting 12 months after the initial drop and over the life of the  over whats the time again Im sorry I dont recall the last piece.
Yes let me just repeat that.
In the structuring of NEP because of the presence of IDRs we have subordinated our LP interest.
Those subordination provisions go away one year after we have sustained the high  the LP distribution corresponding to the high level of the splits.
Until that time from an accounting perspective we defer all the accounting gains that are recorded on the transfer of assets from energy resources to NEP.
So once we clear that one year period then we can start amortizing those gains.
And those gains would be amortized over what period? Over the life of the assets.
Okay.
And we would expect those to run through NextEra Energy Resources ongoing earnings? Correct.
Right.
And so you get the cash in and youre doing the drop.
You amortize the gain over starting the year out over the life of the asset? We are subject to the  well the technical description that I gave going forward it would then be the case but then for subsequent projects you would be getting the cash and starting to realize the gain simultaneously.
Got you.
Great.
One final question for Armando.
We talked a bit last time we saw you about the opportunity for storage as a growth investment at NEER California has this RFP going on.
Can you talk about whether or not storage is in fact a piece of the growth opportunity at NEER and if so what is the magnitude and when might we start seeing those investments? I think it is.
I think Ive been pretty consistent in saying that at least my expectations for storage investments to become a significant part of our CapEx spending at NEER is really towards the later part of the decade.
I mean there are  as you mentioned there are opportunities in California opportunities in Hawaii opportunities in New York and actually there are some smaller opportunities in PJM.
We are looking at and playing in all of those markets but I would not expect in the near-term through 2016 even if were significantly successful for the CapEx to be very meaningful in terms of what it adds to earnings.
Having said that the team that we have put together I think is a good team and I continue to believe that towards the later part of this decade we will be able to make some significant investments.
Thank you gentlemen.
I think we have time for one more.
Well take our question from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Just to recap a little bit here on the NEP accelerated growth and maintaining the long-term growth outlook as well.
Is that basically being driven by just a more robust outlook in terms of the opportunities for renewable development or  I just wanted to clarify as to what  just making sure that I understand exactly how youre able to accelerate the growth in the near-term and maintain long-term growth.
Is that whats driving it? Yes I mean the underpinning of it obviously are long-term expectations for the evolution of the Energy Resources portfolio because thats the principal source of the projects that create the opportunity set for NextEra Energy Partners.
So were feeling very good about that.
Weve had great success this quarter in the relatively short-term or the long-term fundamentals that clearly for us to be very encouraging.
So thats kind of a fundamental driver.
Then assuming that you can get comfortable with a long-term growth expectation for the opportunities set then the next question is whats the right sort of shape to the growth profile and clearly weve recognized that other things equal meaning as long as you can sustain a long period of good growth by good I mean 12% to 15% then its better to have more earlier rather than later.
And then if you couple that with recognition that with this tax equity structure we may have some assets that previously we would have thought about as not being available for 10 years now being eligible earlier.
It makes sense to get those transferred when we can.
So there is more opportunity particularly in the short-term and hence acceleration in the short-term at least was to make a lot of sense.
Okay.
I just want to make sure I understood that.
Then with respect to Slide 20 and the new investment  now I realize things have changed.
You have changed things a little bit here.
Provide a lot more information but it does look like the new investment line has dropped a bit obviously we have NEP on the top part there.
Is there anything thats  I mean could you elaborate a little bit more about whats changed in new investment other than the allocation to NEP in that slide? Its going to be difficult for me to do that on the call.
Okay.
Let me just couple of caveat.
That Slide 20 it does have some differences from the part what I call gross margin hedged chart.
So its very difficult to compare those directly.
Among other things we have in the new disclosure we have allocated into the adjusted EBITDA across the various lines the G&amp;A that we have supporting that respective elements that the business that we didnt have before.
So all those were intended to be a little bit lower.
One of the things that is on our list to do is now to go back and compare these pieces and understand precisely why is some of the line items might look a little bit different.
I would say there is no major change to the 2015 numbers.
Most of the developments that weve seen in the last quarter will tend to affect 16 and 17 much more.
Okay great.
And then just finally weather versus normal.
Im sorry if I missed this.
What has it been year-to-date the impact of weather versus normal? On Energy Resources year-to-date on the wind side is a little above leverage the quarter was a little bit below average.
Solar has been about on.
And the utility? Has it been big at all [ph]? No its been in average year overall.
The challenges weve had here in Florida have been associated much more with heavy rainfall and thunderstorms and lightening but in terms of average cooling degree days its not been greatly different.
Now recognize of course that all of that gets absorbed by pluses or minuses and simple as depreciation and amortization at FPL.
So it doesnt have a direct immediate ROE impact.
Right.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Okay.
Well thank you very much.
This concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Earnings Conference Call for NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners.
Todays conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Amanda Finnis.
Please go ahead maam.
[Audio Gap] NextEra Energy Partners.
With me this morning are Jim Robo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources all of whom are also officers of NextEra Energy Partners as well as Eric Silagy President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company.
Moray will provide an overview of our results and our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making forward-looking statements during this call based on current expectations and assumptions which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward- looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in todays earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the risk factors section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found on our Web site nexteraenergy.com and.nexteraenergypartners.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Todays presentation also includes references to adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA which are non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying todays presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Amanda and good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered strong performance in the fourth quarter capping off an outstanding year overall.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share grew 8.4% while full year adjusted earnings per share growth was 6.6% even including a negative impact of $0.15 per share associated with the launch of NEP.
Just as important we made excellent progress on our major capital initiatives and energy resources had one of its best years ever in terms of new project origination signing contracts for roughly 1 400 megawatts of new renewable projects as well as partnering with EQT to begin development to the Mountain Valley Pipeline.
As a result were very well positioned for future growth and can reasonably expect to be able to extend our long-term track record of growing adjusted earnings in the 5% to 7% range at least through 2018.
Cash flow from operations grew 7.8% leading to a slight improvement in our cash flow coverage metrics as expected and we maintained our strong credit position which remains an important competitive advantage in a capital intensive industry.
In addition to all these developments 2014 saw the very successful launch of NEP the initial assets which delivered operating and financial performance in line with expectations.
A favorable development of energy resources contracted renewable portfolio coupled with other factors led us to conclude that it makes sense to accelerate the growth of the NEP portfolio in 2015 and we now expect to reach the so called high slits which implies LP unit distributions at an annualized rate of $1.13 by the end of this year.
Late in December the growth potential of energy resources and by extension NEP was further supported by the federal governments action to extend the Wind PTC program another year which we expect will mean that we will be able to offer our customers very attractive pricing on Wind projects with delivery dates through the end of 2016.
Longer-term we continue to believe the growth potential for renewables will be strong supported by both improving economics and the EPAs Queens power plant.
All in all it was an exceptionally strong year with excellent current financial performance balanced with equally positive developments in terms of future growth potential.
Were very pleased with the progress we have made.
Now lets turn to the results for the quarter and the full year.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 FPL reported net income of $286 million or $0.65 per share up $0.08 per share year-over-year.
For the full year 2014 FPL reported net income of 1.5 billion or 345 per share up $0.29 per share versus 2013.
As a reminder our 2013 results included a negative impact of approximately $0.07 from transition costs associated with project momentum our enterprise wide productivity initiative.
The principle drivers of growth our continued investment in the business and increased wholesale volumes associated with two long-term contracts.
FPLs capital expenditures were approximately $832 million in the quarter bringing our full year capital investments to a total of roughly $3.1 billion and driving year-over-year growth and regulatory capital employed of 5.8%.
We achieved significant milestones throughout the year bringing into service the Riviera Beach Clean Energy Center ahead of schedule and slightly below budget starting construction on our generation modernization project at Port Everglades and continuing to invest in our transmission and distribution network to help us improve our already outstanding system reliability.
Our regulatory ROE for the 12 months ended December 2014 will be approximately 11.5% achieving the 2014 target that we shared with you previously.
As a reminder there is no longer an embedded negative impact to transition cost associated with project momentum.
Under the current rate agreement you will recall that we record reserve amortization entries to achieve the pre-determined regulatory ROE in this case the 11.5% that I previously mentioned.
During the fourth quarter we reduced our accumulative utilization of reserve amortization since 2013 from $155 million to $122 million a reversal of $33 million leading us a balance of $278 million which can be utilized in 2015 and 2016.
Relative to the expectations that we discussed on the last call the smaller reversal reflects the unfavorable impact of mild weather in the fourth quarter on revenues.
However the $278 million remaining balance is better than we expected when the rate agreement began primarily as a result of our productivity initiatives which have been very successful.
Total non-fuel base O&amp;M costs in 2014 were more than $100 million below where we were in 2012.
Looking ahead we expect the balance of the reserve amortization coupled with our weather-normalized sales growth forecast at 1.5% to 2% per year and current CapEx and O&amp;M expectations will allow us to support a regulatory ROE of approximately 11.5% in 2015 and in the upper half of the allowed band of 9.5% to 11.5% through the end of our current rate agreement.
Were continually working hard to find new ways to strengthen the value proposition that we deliver to our customers and Id like to provide updates on three recent positive developments.
First in December the Florida Public Service Commission approved Woodford project portion of our gas reserves petition and important long-term hedging opportunity against potential volatility in the market price for natural gas.
We expect the PSC to decide in March on our proposed guidelines for subsequent investments in natural gas supplies.
Second 2014 was the second year of FPLs current rate agreement and the second year for the gas and power optimization program that we proposed as part of that agreement which of course the PSC approved.
Im pleased to report that under this innovative gain sharing program FPL delivered roughly 54 million of incremental value to its customers through optimization activities and once reviewed and approved by the commission well be able to record roughly 13 million of incremental pre-tax income in 2015 under the gain share and provisions.
This is an obvious example of a win-win proposition.
Third we remain optimistic that there is greater potential for additional utility scale solar projects in Florida.
Our recent focus has been on improving the economics of three roughly 74 megawatt solar PV projects on which we have already done significant development work and which we expect well be able to enter service in 2016 and qualify for the 30% ITC.
Im pleased to report that yesterday we issued a press release confirming that we believe we can now move forward with these three projects with overall economic benefits to our customers.
The total capital investment for these three projects is expected to be approximately $400 million to $420 million.
Floridas economy continues to improve in 2014 and again did better than the U.S.
average on most major measures.
Floridas seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in December was 5.6% down 0.7 percentage points from a year earlier and in line with that with of the nation.
However Floridas labor force participation rate also increased as more people were attracted to healthier employment market.
Florida added 230 000 jobs over the 12 months period ending December 2014 largely within the private sector.
The corresponding growth rates in jobs are 3% outpaced that of the nation by 0.9 percentage points.
In fact Floridas rate of job creation outpaced the U.S.
and the majority of individual private sectors reflecting diversified growth.
Floridas population is also growing at a healthy rate.
U.S.
Census Bureau reported recently the Floridas population increased by more than 290 000 people over the 12 month period that ended July 1st of last year reaching 19.9 million and moving Florida ahead of New York as Americas third largest state.
In the housing market the Case-Shiller index of South Florida shows prices up 9.5% from prior year and building permits appears to be stabilizing at healthy levels.
The strengthening economy was reflected improvements in Floridas Consumer Sentiment Index which by the end of the year reached its highest level since February 2007.
Fourth quarter sales volume was down 3.7% driven by mild weather.
FPLs average number of customers increased by approximately 68 000 or 1.5% compared to the prior year period with a roughly comparable estimated impact to change in sales of 1.4%.
As a reminder the remote connect and disconnect capability enabled by a smart meters was fully deployed by the fourth quarter 2013 consequently none of the fourth quarter 2014 customer growth is attributed to this impact.
Usage per customer declined by 5% compared to the prior year with weather accounting for 5.3% of the decrease offset by a 0.3% increase in underlying usage growth.
In the fourth quarter inactive accounts were roughly 15% below the level of the prior year comparable period and new meter connections continue to show steady improvement by increasing almost 47 000 in 2014 which is over 20% higher than the 2013 additions.
For the full year customer growth in mix increased by 1.2% compared to 2013 year-over-year we have a normalized usage of a customer increased slightly by 0.1%.
This metric was somewhat volatile in 2014 but our long-term expectation remains at approximately 0.5% for year net of the impact of efficiency and conservation programs through the period of the rate agreement and flat thereafter.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported fourth quarter 2014 GAAP earnings of $614 million or a $39 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter were $178 million or $0.40 per share.
Energy Resources contribution to adjusted earnings per share in the fourth quarter was flat compared to last year.
Strong positive contributions from the new investments as well as improvements in customer supply and trading were offset by reductions in gas infrastructure largely driven by higher depletion rates and by the impact of refueling outages at our Duane Arnold and Point Beach nuclear facilities.
For the full year 2014 Energy Resources reported GAAP earnings of $985 million or 2.24 per share.
Adjusted earnings were $833 million or 1.89 per share.
As a reminder adjusted results include the negative impact of $0.15 per share associated with establishing and launching NEP.
This in turn includes a $0.10 per share non-cash income tax charge driven by separating our Canadian projects to enable and to fit into the overall NEP structure.
The growth in Energy Resources contribution to adjusted earnings per share of $0.06 for the full year was driven largely by growth in our contract in renewables portfolio which added $0.29 per share.
During the year we installed roughly 1364 megawatts of new wind and 265 megawatts at new solar making 2014 the strongest year ever for new renewable capacity coming into service.
We elected CITC for roughly 265 megawatts in solar projects in 2014 compared to approximately 280 megawatts in projects in 2013.
We expect to elect CITCs on roughly 365 megawatts in new solar generation in 2050.
Contributions from our existing business were up $0.06 per share year-over-year.
Wind resource for 2014 was slightly above our long-term expectations following a slightly lower resource in 2013.
Customer supply and trading overall ended the year-up $0.04 per share asset sales added $0.01 per share year-over-year.
Offsetting these increases were the $0.06 decline in gas infrastructure mainly due to increased depreciation expense primarily related to higher depletion rates.
Increased interest expense negatively affected the comparison to last year by $0.09 per share due to growth in the business.
Contributions from corporate G&amp;A and other decreased $0.04 per share year-over-year primarily driven by share dilution.
As we did last year we have included a summary in the Appendix to the presentation that compares Energy Resources realized equivalent EBITDA to the ranges we provided in the third quarter or 2013.
In addition we have updated Energy Resources projected adjusted-EBITDA and cash flow slides and included an additional year forward.
The portfolio of financial information for 2015 and 2016 can be found in the Appendix to the presentation.
Please note that the slides now reflect the impact of the anticipated accelerated growth at NEP.
All expectations associated with NEP assume the future training yields roughly comparable to the days level.
Energy Resources financial performance in 2014 was stronger than they appear from the simple calculation of adjusted-EPS growth in part because of the impact of the various costs and accounting charges associated with the establishment of NextEra Energy partners.
Growth in the adjusted-EBITDA and cash flow both strong with adjusted-EBITDA growing by 12% and operating cash flow by 29% although the later number is affected by intercompany tax effects and working capital changes.
The strong growth in Energy Resources cash flow reflects the impact of new contracted renewable projects coming into service.
As I mentioned earlier Energy Resources had one of our best ever periods of origination activity for new contracted renewable in 2014.
On the last quarterly call we discussed a number of strong prospects that the team was pursuing and I am pleased to report that since that time we have added roughly 500 megawatts to our backlog of wind and solar projects.
All of these new projects have characteristics that we expect will make them attractive candidates to be made available to NEP over the course of time.
We are now well ahead of the expectations that we share with you at on March 2013 investor conference with positive implications for earnings and cash flow growth in 2017 and beyond.
Contingent upon IRF guidance we believe that the extension of the wind PTC along with our development activities and efforts to Safe Harbor equipment should be supportive to our U.S.
program through 2016.
The accompanying chart shows our current estimates of megawatts that can be delivered and their respective period.
Over the last two years weve brought into service approximately 2 285 megawatts of new renewable.
And in addition we have signed contract for another roughly 2 115 megawatts which we expect to bring into service by the end of 2016.
If our development program goes as expected we believe energy resources and NEPs combined renewable portfolios will reach at least 14 200 megawatts by the end of 2016 and likely will be significantly higher.
We will provide a more detailed update on our origination and development activities at our March investor conference.
Let me now review the highlights for NEP as you know the launch of NEP came at the end of the second quarter consequently a discussion of full year results is not meaningful and we will instead simply focus on the fourth quarter.
As a reminder NEP consolidates 100% of the assets and operations of NEE operating LP in which both NextEra Energy and NEP LP unit holders hold an ownership interest.
Accordingly the financial values for NEP that we discussed in these prepared remarks or in the attached slides are presented on a 100% basis.
At present NextEra Energy owns approximately 80% of the economic interest and NEP LP unit holders own approximately 20%.
NEPs initial portfolio delivered fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA and CAFD of 54 million and 32 million respectively.
The assets operated well wind and solar resource were normal and financial results were generally aligned with our expectations.
During the quarter NEP also made its initial distribution payment to unit holders.
Earlier this month NEP completed the acquisition of Palo Duro the first of two previously announced agreements to expand its portfolio through project acquisitions for NextEra Energy Resources.
Palo Duro is an approximately 250 megawatt wind project in Texas.
It ended service in December 2014 and sell 100% of its output under a 20 year PPA.
NEP paid approximately $228 million in cash consideration excluding post-closing working capital and other adjustments and assumed a differential membership liability of approximately $248 million.
NEP continues to expect a first quarter 2015 closing of its agreement to acquire Shafter a 20 megawatt contracted solar project currently under construction in California for an estimated cash consideration of 64 million.
As discussed on the third quarter call these acquisitions are being funded by cash on hand including the 150 million of primary proceeds retained from the IPO and a draw on NEPs existing revolving credit facility.
We expect to issue equity in order to support longer-term financing needs at some point in 2015.
Turning now to the consolidated results for NextEra Energy; for the fourth quarter of 2014 GAAP net income attributable both to NextEra Energy was 884 million or $2 per share.
NextEra Energys 2014 fourth quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $458 million and $1.03 respectively.
For the full year 2014 GAAP net income attributable to NextEra Energy was $2.5 billion or 5.60 per share adjusted earnings were roughly $2.3 billion or 5.30 per share.
For the quarter corporate and other segment was flat relative to 2013 on an adjusted EPS basis for the full year the corporate and other segment was down $0.02 per share on an adjusted basis from 2013.
On the development front 2014 was a successful year for our pipeline projects the development of both Sabal Trail Transmission and Florida Southeast connection continue to progress well through their respective processes and both projects submitted the necessary filings with FERC in 2014 and are on track to receive FERC approval in 2015 in support of a mid-2017 commercial operations date as scheduled.
The Mountain Valley Pipeline joint venture with EQT Corporation continues to progress through the permitting process with the FERC application targeted for the fourth quarter of 2015.
The project has secured approximately 2 bcf per day a 20-year firm capacity commitments with an expected capital opportunity for NextEra of 1.0 billion to 1.3 billion.
The project is expected to be operational by year-end 2018.
NextEra Energys operating cash flow growth outpaced EPS growth year-over-year and our overall credit metrics improved and are in line with our expectations and consistent with our ratings.
In the appendix of todays presentation we have provided actual performance for 2013 and 2014 as well as our projections for 2015.
Additionally you will see the corresponding ranges for the rating agencies indicate for those metrics at our ratings.
Approximately 15 billion of financing transactions were executed in 2014 by our treasury team to support the growth of our business.
As usual we employed conventional debt issuances and continued to make use of project level debt and tax equity partnerships at energy resources.
Consistent with our well established strategy of recycling capital proceeds generated through the inter relationships between NextEra Energy and NEP introduced another source of capital integrated into NextEras ongoing financing program.
In light of the progress made against our execution objectives we continue to be comfortable with the 2015 adjusted EPS expectations we shared with you last quarter 5.40 to 5.70 per share.
For 2016 we are updating our expectations to a range of 5.75 to 6.25 and we expect to be able to provide more insight into the drivers of earnings and cash flows for 2016 and beyond at our Investor Conference in March.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats including but not limited to normal weather and operating conditions.
Turning now to NEP; our expectations taking into account all the asset acquisitions we are now contemplating are unchanged since the last call.
For the full year 2015 we continue to expect the NEP portfolio to grow to generate adjusted EBITDA of $400 million to $440 million and CAFD of $100 million to $120 million this would support the distribution level at an annualized rate of approximately $1.13 which corresponds to the upper tier of the IDR splits by the end of 2015 or possibly slightly earlier.
After 2015 we continue to see 12% to 15% per year growth in LP distributions as being a reasonable range of expectations for at least the next five years.
Assuming current trading levels this implies 2016 adjusted EBITDA of 580 million to 620 million and 2016 CAFD of 170 million to 190 million.
That concludes our prepared remarks and well now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Well take our first from Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Thanks for the update.
I guess question number one Jim has been pointing to the idea that your 2016 would be a disappointment if it wasn't at $6.
What do you guys when you saw the guidance increase today can you just talk about what you saw to give you confidence to move that number higher? First of all weve had really since the investor conference the prior range of $5.50 to $6 so that was based on the initiatives that we laid out for you at time since then we have enable to push forward and execute successfully on I would say the vast majority of those initiatives and we indicated as we went longer way that we were feeling better about where we might be within that range.
Separately Jim very clearly articulated charge to the organization the challenge to the organization being at the $6 range hence the comment about being disappointed that we didnt get that.
And then in the third quarter we simply indicated that we would try and update now once we got pass the Florida election and had a chance to roll the numbers up again.
So all that is preamble to say that based on the success weve had since laying out those capital initiatives in March of 2013 we now think that centering the range around that $6 mark is very consistent with our normal method thats coming up with our expectation.
So always were telling you what it is we see today we could be literally anywhere within that band but we think that band is appropriate given all the factors that we can see today.
Okay.
And I guess Moray just on the wind additions and the warehousing of additional equipment to qualify for the PTC can you just walk through what you guys are doing to key that up and then how we should think about the ability to sustain beyond what is contracted additional wind growth for 2015 and 2016? Ill ask Armando to comment on the specifics on the development side but just the general context Id say on the number of occasions that would see extension which congress now passed we felt comfortable that that would provide us good opportunities for projects that through the end of 2016 and also said that if they were no further extension of the PTC we might well see a drop off in new development for a while but we would expect even without PTC extension to see development pick up again later in the decade is the influence of improving economics and EPAs Clean power plant come into play so just with that is general context Armando you want to comment on what were doing in specific development activities to make sure that we can get them in by the end of 16.
Right.
So couple of things first were on I know we gave you these numbers on a quarterly basis but were on what I would consider a pretty decent role with our development activities in the renewable side so over the last couple of years weve signed long-term power purchase agreements for wind and solar that are just above 2900 megawatts of that 2900 Morey pointed out in the slides this morning that some of those will build in 2014 but we still at 2115 I believe the number is in megawatts for contracts that we have in hand that will go COD in 2015 and 2016.
That number does not include any potential for wind projects in 2016.
We believe that the IRS is going to provide some more guidance on this PTC as they did last time.
We hope that will be provided before the Investor Conference in March and at that time we will share with you what our expectations on the wind side but it clearly would be a giant disappointment if we have zero megawatts in 2016.
I just dont think thats going to happen.
On the solar front really over the last 12 months to 18 months we have done very well in that market.
I think its still way too early to talk about whats going to happen with tax credits for solar beyond 2016.
And as such we probably have just a couple of more orders here where we and others will be able to signed folks up for long-term agreements on the solar side but we have got several very promising opportunities on the solar side that I hope will paying out.
To give you an indication though of what we have been doing 2014 was also our highest ever year in terms of bringing renewal energy megawatts COD.
In 2014 we brought 1630 megawatts of COD.
So we clearly have the capabilities to do that and I hope we would do that.
I am certainly not committing to that but we will have more information for you in March.
That's great.
And just to clarify one thing that 980 MW of wind that you have on slide 11 that would be all for 2015 delivery because you do not have clarity on the 2016 from the IRS yet is that correct? Yes.
Now we will take our next question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
So I wanted to follow up on the solar announcement in Florida and just explore that a little bit further.
First can you expand a little bit on the regulatory process involved? Obviously you have kind of alluded to it and tried it a little bit in the past but what mechanisms precisely you are looking for what kind of recovery you are looking for? And then subsequently just in terms of the timing can you talk about the ability to scale this up or what total size do you see ultimately in Florida? I know you delineated at least the first batch here but is there an ability to scale this up similarly as you described gas before in the state? True.
On the first part the regulatory needs to be recovered through base rates.
So we have been working hard to make sure that we can deliver customer value by which I mean make the addition positive to our total system economics in the current environment.
I am not surprising that has been working very hard on getting the initial cost down because thats where so much of the economics part.
And so we have now reached that point so since these projects have positive economics for customer we believe its appropriate to go forward and in due course we will recover them through basic rates.
On the second part of the question there is some special characteristics of these projects that make them particularly attractive right now and we cant quite yet see general scaling that up to much larger size we are going to need some further improvements in the economics these are also assisted by the fact that we are going to benefit from the existing 30% ITC.
So there is a question always about future projects from that perspective.
So the answer to your second part of your question is yes we think there is huge potential longer-term but we think what we need to get a little bit further still on the economics before we can go much beyond three projects that we are talking about here.
Great.
Excellent.
And then coming to Hawaii could you give us a little bit of an update on where you stand? Just as I imagine you have had conversations with folks in the state I mean how do you feel about being able to execute that both from a timeline perspective and also just in terms of anything you might have to provide to get it all executed? Sure Jim will have a couple of words.
Julien obviously its early days.
The teams are working on the SEC filings as well as the Hawaii PUC filing for regulatory approval and things are moving a pace.
And as I said its early days and I remain optimistic that we are going to be able to finalize things within a 12 months period here by the end of the year.
Great.
And just a last detail any updates on the rate base effort in Florida? Obviously you've got the first gas approval here but just any issues or any changes in the program as you look towards getting the rest done? Really no change.
Obviously pleased that they approved this specific project they will take up a question of the guidelines in March.
And well go next to Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
If we look at the midpoint of your 2016 guidance are you just kind of using the forward gas curves as they currently sit? Yes all our expectations are always based on current forward curves both for commodities and for interest rates.
And every time as part of our preparation for these quarterly calls we go through an update to that outlook we update all the major driving assumptions in which the commodity curves are won.
So yes they recognize those curves bouncing around literally every day.
Right.
On play you have a $0.50 range I guess? Well thats one of the big factors that causes the need for the range certainly.
And Moray over the past couple of years you have kind of expanded your reach across the energy platform be it pipeline gas reserves.
Are there anything else on the back burner we need to look at as far as potential opportunities? I mean certainly were always looking to see whether there are logical extensions that flow from the current scale set and current opportunity set.
But I think we have articulated to you and to others pretty clearly the ones that were active in at the moment so obviously core is the power that we have extensive knowledge of the gas business build that over time very capable at doing all kinds of large scale development in construction and infrastructure type projects transmission development and definitely a focus.
The other one that I probably should remind everybody is that we have a small effort going in storage in a variety of different aspects from sort of early stage following early stage R&amp;D early stage production companies to actual projects have completed or have in process.
So thats kind of the suite of opportunities at the moment.
Youre talking electricity storage? Correct.
Now well go to next Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
A couple of quick questions.
First if you look at this year I think you came in around $5.30 and if you added back the $0.15 of one timers of the NEP restructuring you are almost kind of in your range for 2015 just doing that.
Just to kind of round out 2015 is there anything that particularly hits this year -- kind of limits the uptick? No I would say its the other way around so let me just talk a little bit about 14.
Why were we able to exceed our original expectations even while absorbing $0.15 of incremental and unanticipated at the time charges? There are a number of reasons most of them frankly having to do with the energy resources portfolio most parts of which ended up doing a little better than we originally expected.
First we had just plain weather solar resource was better than long-term averages that was probably about $0.08 worth of goodness from that.
Interest rates stayed lower than we - because of the implied responsible earlier we locked them to curve but that curve didnt manifest itself over the years was probably corporate wide probably about $0.04 of goodness from there.
And then the other big one was really performance in the northeast so the NEPOOL portfolio was on the order of $0.10 or so better than we expected even more than compensating for the shortfall that we had in the customer supply business in the first quarter in the northeast and that business in turn made up that big short fall over the rest of the course of the year.
So you add up all those different things and there was probably somewhere around the order of $0.24 to $0.30 of unanticipated goodness now to be fair there was also some unanticipated badness on smaller factors.
But that was kind of the difference so again when we do the expectations we just go back to sort of base line normal expectations where the commodity curves are right now.
So its much more and thats how 15 son its much more matter of fact that we got $0.20 in the sense of unanticipated goodness in 14 that we cant automatically expect will carry over into 15.
We hope it will but we cant count on it.
Okay.
And just on 2016 guidance in terms of the renewable backlog should we assume what you lay out here that is already contracted gets you maybe to the midpoint and if you are able to do more that's how you get toward the higher end? No absolutely not weve covered this actually on a number of occasions.
The stuff that were doing now in new development is not going to have a significant impact until we reach 17 18 in fact for the last year pretty the development effort is generating projects but thats really going to help us in 17 18 and beyond.
So there maybe some slight timing impacts on 16 thats not really going to be a big driver of where we are in the 16 range.
Okay great.
And then finally -- Just remember that historically when we build wind we get virtually all of the COD very very late in the year.
So when youre building we dont have anything new for 16 wind but we certainly hope to build some and Id love to be able to build them in January February March but traditionally we put those in very very late in the year so there is just very little EBITDA that goes into the year.
And on the solar front were getting to the point really at this point where its going to be very difficult to sign contracts over the next couple of months and expect that youll be have a COD at anything other than very very late in 2016.
So thats why we just go back and look at history when we go in COD its very late in the year and really affects the future years earnings.
Great.
One last question.
Just I think in the beginning of your remarks you kind of reiterated the 5% to 7% I guess through 2018.
But it does seem like your 2016 kind of got you effectively high-end or above that range.
So just can you just maybe context the 2016 guidance with the 5% to 7%? 16 the percent of that range 6% is squarely within the 5% to 7% back from 2012.
Congrats on a good 2014.
I wanted to ask a P&amp;L question.
The commentary about staying above the midpoint or towards the higher end of the range in 2016 meeting the authorized ROE band can you talk a little bit about what headwinds if any exist at FPL? You're highlighting really strong expected but weather normalized demand growth and you have a lot of the regulatory amorts kind of in your back pocket to use over the next few years.
Just trying to think about things that could offset those.
There is nothing in particular but recognize when we started out with the rate agreement the beginning of the rate agreement looking forward in general youre going to need to utilize little more surplus depreciation in the out years to maintain a given level of profitability just given the fundamental growth in the regulatory capital deployed.
So there is nothing special we just again doing the same thing were taking a best view of the range of possibilities for 2016 revenue including where the variability against that expectations for 2016 cost CapEx et cetera and the amount of surplus depreciation remaining.
And all of those give us comfort that in 16 we can be at least above the mid-point of the formal range that somewhere between 10.5 and 11.5.
Got it.
And I know we will see this in the K and probably at the analyst day but any insight you can give us on 2015 and 2016 CapEx expectations at just FP&amp;L? Again I differ on that one because I dont the specific data in front of me.
The K will be out pretty soon.
Michael this is Jim the other thing I would say is that were going to layout in good detail our capital plans at FPL in the March Investor Conference on both sides of the business.
And well take our next question from Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Armando I just want to make sure I heard correctly that practically speaking when I look at slide 11 and I look at the backlog for wind in the United States you said that that doesn't have anything in 2016 so that 980 MW is really just all delivery in 2015.
Is that right? Yes thats correct and let me just clarify the point that is correct right and all of those 980 megawatts that you see on there we have committed to with the customer to bring those in before the end of 2015 if for some reason the customer comes back to us and said okay now that we feel comfortable about 2015 and just slip into 16 well obviously do that but what I really meant to say is we have signed no contracts right now none of the numbers that you see on here are based on a contract that we signed for 2016 COD.
That looks really good because your backlog went up from like 1860 MW to 2254 MW since the third quarter and you still have good option on 2016 if you get the extension.
Yes.
Is based on looking at those slides in the last quarter to today? Yes absolutely it has been a great period.
Shifting to another question it has become a smaller and smaller piece of variability in your business but the Texas market has obviously been under some duress in terms of gas prices coming down but also heat rates contracting in the wake of new supply additions and concern over the economy in Texas with oil prices having come down as much as they have.
I know your guidance on 2015 EBITDA and cash flow has moderated a bit.
Can you talk about market conditions there and maybe what you have done to hedge out that risk? Amanda may want to comment as well but I would say that in general on the commodity front oil gas and power nothing much great has happened recently and that definitely includes Texas.
In the short-term because we do hedge expensively is a relatively modest impact but I would certainly tell that my personal view of the Texas market is less bullish than it was.
Amanda? I will add just a couple of more to that.
When I look at our Texas assets its divided into three sets of assets.
You have got Lumber Yard in Forney that 2800 megawatts combined cycle.
You have got roughly 1800 megawatts of what we hedged wind and you have us much smaller 400 megawatts or 500 megawatts or so of contracted wind in Texas.
The hedged wind really the first time that any significant hedges on the hedge wind start rolling off as 2017 and thats not very significant portion you have got hedges after 2020 to start rolling off.
So I dont worry in the near-term that much about the due to hedged portfolio hedged wind portfolio or contracted wind portfolio.
As Moray mentioned on the combined cycle gas assets we have leveraged those assets last year and part of what we did was we went out and hedged a good part of the margin for about 2.5 years and we have been legging into additional hedges when we can.
Thats a market that does not have a lot of liquidity really past 2016 and even in 2016 its not like you can just hit the bid that you see on the screen.
So its not something I am concerned about at all in the near-term but longer-term economics as Moray said on the market.
I am certainly not as bullish as I was couple of years ago.
And we will go next to Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
Moray you had emphasized in your presentation today the improvement in cash flow from operations and EBITDA which was stronger even than the growth in earnings.
Was wondering if you could drill down into that a little bit and just give us a feel for the primary drivers there and what were the differences with the growth in earnings? Sure the Energy Resources level I think the main observation to make is simply that the strong contributions to cash flow coming from these contracted renewable projects gets a little bit particularly in the early years by some other factors.
So I described two things first of all simply in 2014 we had a number of non-cash items that affect earnings of which the largest and simply the impact in some of the NEP merge cost which obviously we would not picks back to continue.
So thats one source of difference between the picture that you will get if you look at earnings growth and the picture you get if you look at cash growth.
But there is the more fundamental one is that by the nature of these contracted renewable projects you have virtually all of your investment upfront.
And so in a sense the faster you grow that business the greater the disparity between your earnings profile the impact that has on your earnings profile and your underlying cash flow profile.
So the growth in the cash flow is coming from the project is kind of must in the early years by the fact that they not has accretive in the early years as they will be in subsequent years.
So there is just a its almost like an arithmetical mathematical thing goes on.
So we simply wanted to highlight the fact that the cash flow growth of Energy Resources is very strong and just a flag for people that you probably want to look most that its contribution to earnings and its contribution to cash flow.
Okay.
And if I could just a quick follow-up on the solar initiative at FPL.
If I remember correctly those were three 75 MW projects and you are estimating a cost of $400 million to $420 million? Is that correct? Correct.
And then you are saying that the economics would need to improve for the growth in utility scale and solar to continue? Can you amplify on that at all what you think would be sort of an economic cost per watt for utility scale solar? Well recognize that those projects are advantaged by couple of things.
First of all eligibility for the 30% ITC and secondly I will call it good fighting condition.
So development work has been done access to transmission et cetera.
So if you just look at the generic supposing I wanted to add 200 plus megawatts of solar somewhere in Florida.
You got to start from a clean-slate find a new site get transmission access all of those things look at the full cost of the project.
That would not be economic today at the 10% ITC level so answer to the direct question of how much more do cost have to come down I would have to look more closely at the economics Im going a little bit off memory but yes I would think somewhere in the order of 10% to 15%.
And we certainly think that thats likely to occur over the next few years so again were very optimistic about doing more later in the decade.
Hugh this is Jim.
The only other thing Id say is were very pleased within this historically low price commodity environment that we have some utility scale solar projects in Florida that are cost effective for customers.
And so that 10% or 15% improvement going forward to offset the loss of the ITC and some of the special advantages that these projects have one of the ways to do that is to have commodity prices come up a little bit right.
And were seeing this throughout the country now that solar is becoming increasingly cost effective -- utility scale solar is becoming increasingly cost effective compared to avoided cost at utilities around the country and I think thats a very-very positive thing for our customers here in Florida and also for Armando's renewable business across the rest of the country.
And just as a reminder to everyone really the challenge of making solar work here in Florida is actually quite a bit more than it might appear because of a low cost structure and hence low rate structure which is effectively what were competing against.
And well take our final question today from Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
So first on the growth in your wind power installations we have heard from other wind developers in the US who seem pretty confident that the projects that will start operations before the end of 2017 will still qualify for the PTC given the extension through the end of 2014.
You seem to believe it is only until 2016.
So where is the difference? Are you simply conservative in your assumptions or do you think that it is really still unclear given the lack of the IRS interpretation? Angie assuming that the IRS provides similar guidance to what they did last year on in construction.
We think that that will mean these are my words Safe Harbor or projects that would get COD before January 01 of 2017.
There is always been the question out there that because the IRS or Congress that the IRS is just interpreting did not provide a what I will call a drop dead bed on COD that if you have continuous construction activities through the period of COD that you could qualify for the production tax credit beyond again what I call my Safe Harbor day.
So I some folks are saying look we can build at some point in 2017 because we believe it will have we will meet continuing guidance and the IRS has provided some examples of what those activities are that is I think thats certainly doable thats certainly a more aggressive interpretation than we would take.
Now we may have some projects just because of their circumstances that we would feel comfortable building in 2017 to build -- I am sorry to meet that IRS guidance.
But I can tell you we will try to minimize those projects because we think they carry more of a risk than those projects to get done by the end of 2016.
Okay.
And then separately on NEP so I just wanted to clarify one thing.
So if you are talking about 12% to 15% growth in distributions per share you are assuming that you will be able to issue equity for each of the forward years assuming that the yield at the time of the issuance will be close to the 2.8% 2.9% that we are currently observing using the projections of the distributed cash per share? Is that correct? Yes they doesnt necessarily have to be exactly that but thats why we included the comment about the assuming roughly current trading levels.
Yes.
And at this time that does conclude todays presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Amanda Finnis.
Thank you Orlando.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the first quarter 2015 combined earnings conference call for NextEra Energy and for NextEra Energy Partners.
With me this morning are Jim Robo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Mark Hickson Senior Vice President of NextEra Energy all of whom are also officers of NextEra Energy Partners; as well as Eric Silagy President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company; and John Ketchum Senior Vice President of NextEra Energy.
Moray will provide an overview of our results and our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making forward-looking statements during this call based on our current expectations and assumptions which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings new release in the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factor section of the accompanying presentation or in the latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found on our websites nexteraenergy.com and nexteraenergypartners.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Today's presentation also includes references to adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA which are non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying today's presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Amanda.
Good morning everyone.
Both NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners enjoyed strong first quarters and are off to a good start towards meeting their respective objectives for the year.
At NextEra Energy adjusted earnings per share grew 12% with Energy Resources leading the way despite generally weak wind resource.
The impact of weak wind resource was roughly offset by the recovery of the customer supply business to more normal levels of profitability and the main driver of growth continued to be the growth of the contracted renewables portfolio.
Energy Resources also had another good quarter of origination activity which I will discuss in more detail later.
Florida Power &amp; Light's contribution to earnings per share grew only slightly relative to the first quarter of last year.
But this may be a bit misleading as earnings per share contribution was affected by a number of small items and timing impacts as well as by share dilution.
Growth in regulatory capital employed on the equity portion of which we expect to earn a return of 11.5% for the full year was 5.2% and we expect this to increase a bit over the course of the remainder of the year.
We are very pleased with FPL's financial results.
Both main businesses continued to deliver good operating performance with excellent reliability of the generation fleet as well as FPL's transmission and distribution system.
Across the fossil and renewables generation portfolio EFOR or the equivalent forced outage rate was approximately 1% for the quarter while FPL's 2014 service reliability was more than 30% better than the state investor-owned utility average.
Both main businesses also continued to make good progress on their major capital initiatives which we discussed at our Investor Conference last month.
All major initiatives remain consistent with our presentation in March.
At NextEra Energy Partners operating performance was excellent and weak wind resource was largely offset by better-than-normal performance from the solar assets.
Cash available for distribution for the quarter was reduced by debt service payments but was consistent with our expectations.
The NEP Board declared a quarterly distribution of $0.205 per common unit or $0.82 per common unit on an annualized basis.
And today we are also announcing the execution of agreements to acquire additional assets form energy resources to support NEP's growth details of which I will provide later in the call.
Given the strong start to the year we continue to feel very comfortable with our financial expectations for NextEra Energy and for NextEra Energy Partners both for 2015 and for the longer term.
We are very pleased with the progress we're making.
Now let's look at the results for FPL.
For the first quarter of 2015 FPL reported net income of $359 million or $0.80 per share up $0.01 per share year-over-year.
Average regulatory capital employed grew roughly 5.2% over the same quarter last year.
Capital expenditures during the quarter were roughly $765 million.
And consistent with the expectations we shared at our Investor Conference last month we expect full-year capital expenditures of $3.4 billion to $3.8 billion.
Our reported ROE for regulatory purposes will be approximately 11.5% for the 12 months ending March 2015.
As a reminder under the current rate agreement we record reserve amortization entries to achieve a pre-determined regulatory ROE.
We entered 2015 with a reserve amortization balance of $278 million.
And during the first quarter we utilized $99 million in order to achieve the regulatory ROE of 11.5% leaving us a balance of $179 million which can be utilized in the remainder of 2015 and 2016.
As in prior years we expect to use surplus depreciation in the early months of the year and then reverse that usage during the summer months when revenues are higher in order to maintain the consistent regulatory ROE.
Looking ahead we expect that the balance of the reserve amortization coupled with current CapEx and O&amp;M expectations will allow us to support a regulatory ROE of approximately 11.5% in 2015 and to achieve the upper half of the allowed band of 9.5% to 11.5% through the end of our current rate agreement.
As always our expectations assume normal weather and operating conditions.
Before moving on let me now take a moment to update you on some of our key capital initiatives.
We continue to make good progress on the modernization project at Port Everglades which remains on budget and on track to achieve commercial operation in mid-2016.
During the quarter we closed on the Woodford shale natural gas production project in Southeastern Oklahoma.
We continue to view this transaction as an important first step in what we hope will be a larger program to provide long-term physical hedges that will help mitigate the effects of potential volatility in the market price for natural gas on customer bills.
Although the evaluation of our proposed guidelines for subsequent investments has been extended beyond the expectations we shared with you last quarter we are encouraged by actions of the Florida Supreme Court to enable the PSC to continue evaluation of the guidelines while the court reviews the PSC's approval of the Woodford project.
We are now expecting further PSC activity on the guidelines in the coming months.
As we announced in March we are also pursuing a plan to acquire the 250 megawatt coal-fired Cedar Bay generation facility located in Jacksonville Florida which has a contract to supply capacity and energy to FPL through 2024.
If approved by the commission this transaction would lead to a change in plant dispatch that would likely significantly reduce the plant's operations and potentially enable earlier shutdown of the facility than would otherwise be the case.
This plan is projected to save FPL customers an estimated $70 million and prevent nearly 1 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions annually.
At the end of March the PSC established a schedule for this proceeding and we are expecting a PSC decision in September.
As we look toward the end of the decade we anticipate a need for additional generation capacity as Florida continues to grow.
And in March we issued a request for proposals for 2019 capacity need.
In May FPL and an independent evaluator will each conduct separate reviews of proposals received in response to the RFP as well as FPL's potential self-build combined cycle unit.
We believe that our proposed unit would be one of the most fuel-efficient and cleanest combined cycle plants built to-date with an installed cost of approximately $670 per kilowatt.
And we expect that it would be highly competitive with other alternatives.
We continue to make good progress on the other opportunities we discussed at our March Investor Conference including adding roughly 223 megawatts of cost effective solar PV to our system and implementing an upgrade solution to our aging peaker fleet.
We continue to expect these projects to be completed by the end of 2016.
The Florida economy continues to perform well with most indicators we track showing continued improvement.
The March unemployment rate of 5.7% is the lowest level since mid-2008.
The number of jobs in Florida was up approximately 284 000 compared with last year an increase of 3.7%.
And Florida is now within approximately 30 000 jobs of its pre-recession peak in employment.
Florida's private sector continues to drive the state's job growth and more than 841 000 private sector jobs have been added since December 2010.
The real estate sector continues to do well with new building permits remaining at a healthy level and mortgage delinquency rates continuing to decline.
The Case-Shiller Index for South Florida shows home prices up 8.3% from the prior year.
The overall improvement in the Florida economy appears to be reflected in consumer sentiment and Florida's consumer sentiment index level in March was the highest in 11 years.
First quarter retail sales at FPL were up 1.0%.
FPL's average number of customers increased by 66 000 over the prior year comparable quarter with an estimated impact on sales of 1.4% which is consistent with our long-term expectation of 1.3% to 1.6% customer growth per year.
Overall usage per customer decreased by 0.4%.
While it can be difficult to know exactly how much of this to attribute to weather particularly during a quarter where heating and cooling loads have differed significantly from long-term averages and historic correlations to mean temperature readings we believe that weather comparisons should have provided a usage lift to about 0.8% implying that weather normalized usage declined by about 1.2%.
This is a relatively large decline although as we have often noted quarterly usage per customer can fluctuate somewhat randomly.
While we believe that it is unlikely that we are witnessing any structural change that would suggest a continuation of weather normalized declines in usage it is certainly possible that our expectations of roughly 0.5% increase for the full year may prove to be a bit optimistic.
We will continue to analyze the usage data as they come in the months ahead and we'll update you on future calls.
As a reminder modest changes in usage per customer are not likely to have a material effect on earnings this year as we will adjust the level of surplus depreciation utilization to offset any effect and allow us to maintain the expected 11.5% regulatory ROE.
Any changes we may make to our outlook for future years will of course be reflected in our expectations going forward.
Let me turn now to Energy Resources which reported first quarter 2015 GAAP earnings of $278 million or $0.62 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter were $260 million or $0.58 per share.
Energy Resources' adjusted EPS increased by $0.10 per share year-over-year.
As discussed earlier in the call customer supply and trading returned to more normal levels of profitability adding $0.20 per share relative to last year's first quarter.
You may recall that last year's first quarter results were impacted by polar vortex conditions in the Northeast that caused parts of our customer supply business to underperform and we did not experience the same adverse effects in the first quarter this year.
Existing assets mostly offset this positive with negative $0.17 per share primarily caused by below average wind resource of approximately 87% during the quarter versus 107% in the comparable period last year.
Fleet-wide wind resource for the quarter was the second lowest first quarter on record over the past 37 years and the absolute lowest first quarter in Texas.
Fortunately the wind resources began to return to more normal levels in April.
Contributions from new investment added $0.09 per share due to continued growth of our contracted renewables business.
Gas infrastructure added $0.02 per share.
Given current market conditions we elected not to invest capital in drilling certain wells which resulted in earlier recognition of income through the value of the hedges we had in place.
This benefit more than offset increased depreciation expense as a result of higher depletion rates.
Increased corporate G&amp;A and other costs contributed negative $0.04 of the year-over-year change.
All other effects were minor as reflected on the accompanying slide.
Energy Resources growth and adjusted EBITDA and cash flow were both strong.
For the first quarter of 2015 adjusted EBITDA and operating cash flow increased 20% and 42% respectively from the prior year comparable quarter.
While we expect considerable variability in cash flow growth from quarter to quarter we see full-year cash flow from operations growing 20% to 25% assuming no major changes in commodity prices and assuming normal operating conditions.
The Energy Resources development team had another good quarter of origination activity.
Since our last earnings call we have added 200 megawatts of wind projects and roughly 300 megawatts of new solar projects to our renewables backlog and we are well-positioned to add further projects in the weeks ahead.
We are particularly pleased that roughly 80 megawatts of solar capacity is for post 2016 delivery suggesting that we can expect to see continued demand for solar projects even after the anticipated expiration of the current special ITC support.
The accompanying chart updates information we provided at the March Investor Conference but our overall expectations have not changed.
We continue to expect to bring into service a total of approximately 4 700 megawatts to 5 100 megawatts of renewables from 2015 through 2018.
Our forecast assumes PTCs expire at the end of 2016 with a further extension representing a potential upside to these numbers.
In addition to our development efforts in the United States our future development efforts in Canada were focused on leveraging our Ontario feed-in tariff experience and we intend to participate in the new RFP processes that are expected to occur later this year and in 2016 which may present additional opportunities for wind solar and storage projects.
Let me now review the highlights for NEP.
First quarter adjusted EBITDA was approximately $70 million and cash available for distribution was negative $15 million.
As I mentioned earlier cash available for distribution was affected by debt service payments which for some projects occur semi-annually and the CAFD for the quarter was consistent with our expectations.
Before accounting for debt service cash available for distribution was positive $52 million.
While weak wind resource adversely affected most of the portfolio's wind projects performance of the solar assets was better than expected and the net effect was not material.
During the quarter in addition to the closing of the 250-megawatt Palo Duro contracted wind project in Texas that we announced in January NEP closed on its agreement to acquire Shafter a 20-megawatt contracted solar project in California for approximately $64 million through the use of its existing revolving credit facility.
The project is expected to close on its financing and enter service by the end of the second quarter.
We continue to execute on our plan to expand NEP's portfolio and I'm pleased to announce that the conflicts committee of the NEP board has reached an agreement with a sponsor to acquire four additional assets from the Energy Resources portfolio.
This acquisition portfolio is a geographically diverse mix of assets collectively consisting of approximately 664 megawatts with a megawatt-weighted remaining contract life of 18 years.
The transaction represents another step towards growing LP unit distributions in a manner consistent with our previously stated expectations of reaching an annualized rate of at least $1.13 per unit by the end of the year.
NEP expects to acquire the portfolio for total consideration of approximately $412 million plus the assumption of approximately $269 million in debt and tax equity financing.
The purchase price is subject to working capital and other adjustments and assumes additional project debt of approximately $60 million which we expect to close within a few months of the acquisition.
The acquisitions are expected to contribute 2015 adjusted EBITDA and CAFD of roughly $40 million to $50 million and $15 million to $20 million respectively and to increase the annual run rate of adjusted EBITDA and CAFD by roughly $75 million to $85 million and $28 million to $32 million respectively.
We are currently evaluating a number of funding alternatives to finance the transaction which we expect to close by the middle of May.
Once completed we expect to be able to grow our second quarter LP unit distributions to an annualized rate of approximately $0.94 per unit while maintaining our 2015 guidance of $400 million to $440 million and $100 million to $120 million of adjusted EBITDA and CAFD respectively.
Turning now to the consolidated results for NextEra Energy for the first quarter of 2015 GAAP net income attributable to NextEra Energy was $650 million or $1.45 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2015 first quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS was $631 million and $1.41 respectively with adjusted EPS up 12% over the prior year comparable quarter.
Year-over-year growth in first quarter operating cash flow was also very strong at 16%.
Consistent with the expectations we have previously shared for a slight improvement in our credit metrics in 2015 our results for this quarter account for the effects of dilution associated with the settlement of our forward agreement for 6.6 million shares that occurred at the end of 2014.
The impact of dilution in the first quarter was an approximately $0.03 per share decline from prior year comparable quarter.
As a reminder our full year results will also be impacted by the settlements of the forward contract component of our equity units issued in May 2012 and September 2012 and the dilutive effects of these settlements will also have an impact on prior-period comparisons for the remaining quarters of this year.
Adjusted earnings from the Corporate and Other segment increased $0.04 per share compared to the first quarter of 2014 primarily due to miscellaneous corporate items none of which were individually notable.
As a reminder results associated with NextEra Energy Transmission and gas pipelines are reported through the Corporate and Other segment and our current infrastructure development initiatives continue to progress well during the first quarter.
Florida Southeast Connection and the Sabal Trail Transmission are on track and we expect to be in the position to receive FERC approval around the end of this year.
The land easement process continues to progress appropriately to support project construction assumptions and we continue to expect a mid-2017 commercial operations date.
For the Mountain Valley Pipeline joint venture with EQT Corporation we were pleased to announce during the quarter the addition of WGL Midstream as an additional shipper on the line as well as the addition of WGL Midstream and Vega Midstream as additional partners.
The project has secured approximately 2 Bcf per day of 20-year firm capacity commitments with an expected capital opportunity for NextEra of $1 billion to $1.3 billion.
Development efforts continue to progress well with the FERC application targeted for the fourth quarter of 2015 and entering commercial operations by year-end 2018.
During the quarter our transmission team was selected by the Cal ISO to develop build own and operate two competitive transmission projects.
These projects are the first non-incumbent utility awards for competitive transmission projects in California.
While a relatively modest and expected investment size we are very pleased with these recent successes.
While our first quarter performance was strong a number of the key drivers such as the recovery in our customer supply and trading activities at Energy Resources were well-established heading into the year.
Based on what we see at this time we continue to expect adjusted earnings per share for 2015 to be in the range of the $5.40 to $5.70 per share.
The expectations we provided in March for 2016 through 2018 are also unchanged.
We continue to see adjusted EPS growth at a compound annual growth rate of 5% to 7% through 2018 off our 2014 base.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats including but not limited to normal weather and operating conditions.
Turning now to NEP our expectation's taking into account all the asset acquisitions we are now contemplating are unchanged since the last call and the details we discussed at our Investor Conference last month.
For the full-year 2015 we continue to expect the NEP portfolio to grow to generate adjusted EBITDA of $400 million to $440 million and CAFD of $100 million to $120 million.
This would support a distribution level at an annualized rate of at least $1.13 which corresponds to the upper tier of the IDR splits by the end of the year or possibly slightly earlier.
After 2015 we continue to see 12% to 15% per year growth in LP distributions as being a reasonable range of expectations for at least the next five years.
Assuming trading levels roughly consistent with current market conditions this implies 2016 adjusted EBITDA of $580 million to $620 million and 2016 CAFD of $170 million to $190 million.
These expectations are net of expected IDR fees of $20 million to $30 million for 2016 as we expect these fees to be treated as an operating expense.
To sum up we continue to believe that NEE and NEP offer some of the best value propositions in the industry.
We remain very focused on the major initiatives we discussed at our Investor Conference last night  or last month and we are off to a very strong start.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
And with that we will now open the line for questions.
Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I guess just following up kind of on the NEP dropdowns at the Analyst Day you guys brought up more discussion on acquisitions or the willingness to look at those kinds of projects coming available.
Can you just discuss what you're seeing in the market as far as actual qualifying projects that could be bought? And then just walk us through how you guys think about the cost of capital and how you budget equity cost of capital relative just the low yield where NEP trades today? NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Okay.
Well that was a few questions; Dan it's Armando.
We continue to see  I mean the reason we brought it up at the Investor Conference is we continue to see sellers of individual assets and small portfolios out in the market.
Some have transacted.
Some have come to market taken their assets back maybe waiting for a better time.
We continue to participate as you might expect in anything of significance that comes to the market.
But we're doing it honestly from a position of strength.
I mean we have a very very nice portfolio that I think everybody would agree sitting at Energy Resources and our expectations would be that we will continue to drop those assets down into NEP from Energy Resources.
But we will pursue acquisitions in the market if they make some sense.
If none happen this year that's fine.
I don't think anybody is going to be really disappointed.
We're not going to try to be more aggressive than the next guy.
We're going to try to be diligent in what we do.
Having said that I do believe that there will be hopefully some assets that work for our metrics and our portfolio.
The metrics by the way that we use when we are taking a look at acquisitions because you asked a cost of capital question are not much different than the metrics that we would use at Energy Resources right.
I mean obviously we realize that we have a great currency at NEP and it's trading at a very nice yield.
But in addition to CAFD and EBITDA multiples which everybody seems to be focusing on we continue to look at unlevered returns and ROEs even though the NEP units obviously trade very well compared to our other currency.
Dan just a couple of comments on the cost of equity question.
I think partly because the space is relatively new and partly because market conditions are shall we say historically unusual nobody can tell you exactly what the cost of equity for any of these vehicles is.
It very clearly isn't simply the trading yield because that reflects expectations of growth which differ significantly from entity to entity; but it is also clearly true at least in my judgment that what we are seeing is with the creation of a vehicle like NEP that we are accessing a lower cost of capital than we previously were able to take advantage of with respect to the long term ownership of the cash flow streams from these contracted renewable projects; though that's different from saying that there's been a change in the cost of capital for the development business.
That's good.
Thank you for clarifying that.
And I guess just on the pipeline of renewable additions you guys were able to get down some solar beyond the 2016 time line.
Are you guys still seeing opportunity and interest in more projects getting done kind of beyond the two-year visible window and when do you think you might convert more of those into a bigger pipeline? NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> We're seeing actually a couple of things Dan.
The first thing that we're seeing is we're seeing some folks coming into the market in our view a little late looking for 2016 projects.
But having said that we don't expect to sign any additional 2016 projects as you can see from our disclosure.
That doesn't mean that we may surprise ourselves and get something else in the pipeline.
But the focus really now is on execution of everything that we have in the backlog: for 2015 wind for 2016 wind and 2016 solar in addition to taking a look at solar beyond 2016.
And what we are seeing with this first PPA that was signed beyond 2016 we are seeing more interests particularly in the 2018 and 2019 timeframe from some of our traditional customers.
So I don't know whether that's going to mean that next quarter or the following quarter we've got a bunch of PPA announcements for 2018 or 2019.
But what I like to see is that people are asking and inquiring as to what we could do in that timeframe.
So I'm hopeful that we will be able to sign some way before the end of 2016.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Thanks.
And next we'll take a question from Brian Chin with Merrill Lynch.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> You highlighted on slide 8 that the underlying usage growth of minus 1.2% was a point of note and that you might use the surplus D&amp;A balance to offset this if the trend continued.
If you continue to track at this minus 1.2% for the rest of the year would you expect that the surplus D&amp;A levels just given how you tend to use it at the beginning of the year and then you tend to add to it at the end of the year do you think that that surplus D&amp;A amount would be sufficient to offset a minus 1.2% trajectory? Would it be insufficient or still give you a nice degree of cushion? Can you just elaborate on that a little bit more? Sure.
First of all let me state clearly that we don't expect the negative 1.2% to continue and I'll come back to that a moment.
Having said that if it were hypothetically to continue by itself that 1% roughly of total revenue is well within the bounds of the available surplus deprecation so that really wouldn't be an issue in terms of this year.
As a practical matter it wouldn't be an issue for a second reason which is that the weather in April has turned out to be very favorable.
So those things are going to bounce around a little bit.
But I do want to comment a little bit more on the fundamentals of the negative 1.2%.
That's a large number for an individual quarter coming off a quarter where we had positive underlying usage rate.
That kind of change doesn't happen from quarter to quarter.
It doesn't represent actual behavioral change most likely.
So it's probably that there's a lot of statistical noise in our weather adjustment going on here.
We had a quarter that was pretty mild so there wasn't a lot of either heating load or cooling load.
And in that sort of situation a traditional model doesn't behave particularly well.
And so the amount that we're extracting for weather may or may not represent what the weather impact truly was.
So I'm not particularly concerned about it at this stage other than that it is possible that we are going to see a little bit lower underlying usage growth going forward.
You may recall that the 0.5% expected growth in underlying usage was really still based on cyclical economic recovery from the downturn.
And our long-term expectation after this year or next year is really for underlying usage to be about flat.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Brian.
And next we'll hear from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Good morning Stephen.
Wondered if you could provide a little bit more color on how you may finance the acquisition at NEP in terms of the $412 million.
I know Moray you talked a little bit about that but just trying to better understand the sort of net free cash flow yield that we could expect and how you're think about financing that? Sure.
There's not a lot really to add to what we've said before.
So I divide the financing really into the strategic versus the tactical.
Strategically there is going to be equity financing to maintain a reasonable overall leverage ratio for NEP consistent with what we've spoken about before.
We've said that it's reasonable to expect that projects will be acquired by NEP with somewhere between 65% 70% leverage on them or to be levered to that level.
And so over time you can expect to see the balance be provided by equity.
So that's the long term or the strategic answer.
Then there's the tactical which is how do you get there from any particular point in time and that's really what we're more examining at the moment.
So there are a number of options there which in one way or another are tantamount to some form of bridge financing to get you to the longer term equity position but we haven't made any decisions yet on exactly what we're going to do there.
Okay.
Understood.
And then I wanted to flip over to storage.
Moray you had mentioned wind solar and storage.
I was just curious generally on your take in terms of the kinds of opportunities that you may see in energy storage what that business model might look like? I know in the past you've talked about storage linked with wind.
But just very interested in where you see storage opportunities coming from? NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Stephen it's Armando.
It's only been a couple of months since the Investor Conference so I can't say we're seeing a lot more or a lot less.
But we're seeing a steady request from many of our traditional customers and some what I would call non-traditional customers commercial customers asking about storage and asking about storage as behind the meter asking about storage as part of a new wind plant our new wind plant expansion or part of utility scale solar.
So on a regular basis now I think I indicated this at the Investor Conference we're responding to both RFPs and non-RFPs with a storage option.
But as I also said: storage is very expensive.
It continues to be very expensive.
And so outside of markets where there is a regulatory call to pursue storage so you can think about California you can think about Hawaii you can think of parts of New York I don't think you're going to see a large uptick in storage CapEx for us or anybody else.
I've said internally that my expectation is if we can spend $100 million of capital in storage on an annual basis over the next couple of years I think that'll be a good thing; but that by 2020 it should be hopefully a more significant part of what we spend on an annual basis.
So we've got a lot of folks on it looking at that technology.
We've got a lot of folks in the development but I don't expect it to be a huge jump here in the next couple of years.
That's great color.
Thank you very much.
NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Hey Stephen just one last thing on your previous question; I just want to make sure because  we gave everybody a lot of numbers on these NEP acquisitions I want to make sure that something is not being lost.
Moray said it today in the prepared remarks that there's roughly $60 million or so of financing that we would expect to get project financing on one of the assets.
So although the CAFD metric cash flow available for distribution is not something that we're fixated on; there are a lot of people that are fixated on that CAFD yield.
And so when you're doing  when folks are doing that calculation you've got to make sure that it's the $412 million of equity value that we gave you minus the $60 million of expected financing which is going to occur here in the next couple of years divided by the mid-range of the CAFD we gave you which is roughly $30 million.
So that gets  if anybody's interested that would get us to 8.7.
Again it's just one of very  a bunch of metrics that we look at.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Moving on.
We'll hear from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Julien.
So I wanted to address M&amp;A but in a more generic context when you think about regulated opportunities.
Could you perhaps articulate the value proposition of pursuing more regulated assets within your overall corporate mix? Perhaps could you talk to some of the value either  la an NEP route or just what criteria might be vis--vis minimum accretion levels in pursing further opportunities on that side? I want to avoid the specific question but kind of get more tactical in understanding what the value proposition would be if you were to pursue any subsequent deals sort of ahead of time if you will? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Julien this is Jim.
I think we  I think talked a little bit about this last month at the Investor Conference.
I think overall there are obviously a set of constraints in the industry to doing regulated M&amp;A; those include the fact that you need to get state regulatory approvals the fact that oftentimes synergies are shared with customers such that you can't afford to pay a very big premium.
Management teams tend not to be particularly excited about doing deals in this industry particularly given that you can't pay necessarily a very big premium.
So there are set of constraints that you have to operate and as you think about regulated M&amp;A.
That said we've  for a very long time have had a view that this is a  that scale matters in this industry that this is a very  for an industry that is as technology driven and is scale driven as it is  as this is that it's very unconsolidated.
That secondly there is enormous differentials in performance across the industry; you just need to pull the FERC data and look at the FERC data on a cost-per-customer cost-per-megawatt-hour basis for utilities across the country to see those kind of enormous operating cost differentials.
There's also frankly enormous service reliability differentials.
We see enormous differentials in terms of generation performance across utilities.
And so we've always had a view that we would have a lot to bring to a target in terms being able to run it better.
And so the other constraints as we think about regulated M&amp;A is that we have a very constructive set of regulatory jurisdictions right now.
And as we think about regulatory  regulated M&amp;A it's important that the jurisdictions that you would consider would also be viewed as constructive.
So that also was another constraint to being able to do it.
But I think the main view of how you would create value over a long period of time is the combination of us being able to bring to bear our ability to run a utility much better than it's being run currently combined with I think a view that we have that we can deploy capital and technology in a way that can transform utilities for the betterment of both the customer and for the shareholder much of how  much of which we have done over the last 15 years here in Florida.
So hopefully that's helpful to give you a framework of how we kind of think about regulated M&amp;A.
But it's not necessarily  la NEP? There's no energy with that strategy? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Julien I think in almost every state jurisdiction you would look at I think it's very hard to think about putting a utility asset into a yieldco without a significant amount of regulatory risk.
Yes.
Okay.
And then subsequently just to come back to a comment you made earlier on the call with respect to Canada and opportunities there Ontario can you elaborate a little bit around storage wind and solar? You don't seem to have a lot in your backlog as far as I can tell in kind of the longer data period.
NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Sure.
Sure Julien; it's Armando.
Several years ago as many of you know we were successful in winning a significant number of RFPs in the wind space.
But even before that we were successful in buying some solar assets and some wind assets in Canada.
The nice thing  actually the very nice thing about the success that we had a number of years ago is we built a great team in Canada.
We have an office in Canada.
We have continued to develop assets and properties both on the wind and solar side in anticipation for the next round of bids that were coming out.
Those bids in Ontario have been delayed a couple of times.
We're pretty sure that they're going to come out again this year.
And we feel comfortable that we have a number of properties that should be competitive in the process.
That's not saying that we're going to pick any up but we certainly haven't been sitting on our hands up there just building the assets and so we're hopeful to be competitive in this next round this year.
So there's implicitly upside to your Canadian forecast with the backlog there? Absolutely.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys for the time.
Thanks Julien.
And next we'll hear from Paul Ridzon with Keybanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Congratulations on a solid quarter.
Thanks Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> I had three quick questions.
What are you hearing in Washington as far as ITC PTC extension the latest kind of body language there? And then what's your outlook for the full year at corporate given the strength in the first quarter? And then lastly how is your outreach program going in Hawaii as far as getting the vote out given the unique kind of approval process there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Paul I'll  this is Jim.
I'll answer those questions.
First of all the PTC ITC on the ITC we fully expect at the end of 2016 that the solar ITC will step down from 30% to 10%.
We support that step down and I think solar is going to be cost competitive without an ITC in the back half of this decade.
And so I don't think you need it to continue to drive solar demand going forward.
On the PTC front we see work on extenders probably happening starting sometime in the late summer early fall once they  folks have still not given up hope on tax reform just yet this year.
That hope I think will probably be given up in the late summer early fall and they'll get to work on trying to get to an extenders package.
I think there's clear understanding on the part of the leadership in both the Senate and the House that extending the  doing a tax extenders bill on getting it signed on December 22 or December 23 like happened last year is not optimal for planning for companies and doesn't really accomplish much of anything.
And so I would expect them to try to get working on it earlier.
I think my expectation the most likely outcome for the PTC is a  and for the whole extenders package is a one year just a simple one year extension kick the can down the road.
I do think there is a chance that you would see a multi-year phase out of the PTC one that we've supported over  in the last extenders discussion.
We almost got there with the multi-year phase out and extension of the PTC.
And I think there's a chance that that would happen this year again.
But I think as I said the highest odds is just a simple one-year extension of all extenders in bonus depreciation by the end of the year.
On  given we've had a good first quarter it's still very early and we still feel very comfortable with our expectations for the full year as Moray said on the call.
And then in terms of Hawaii and the shareholder votes the vote is really not until May 12.
It's very early.
Things have gone well so far but it's very early and there's a significant amount of work going on in terms of outreach to both retail and institutional shareholders and so we'll have more visibility into that as we get closer to the May 12 date.
Inc.</span></strong> And then if I could just add one more.
Sorry.
When do you expect the Florida Supreme Court to rule on gas storage or gas reserves? Florida Power &amp; Light Co.</span></strong> Hey Paul.
This is Eric Silagy.
It's always hard to predict when the court is going to rule.
There's no set time line for the courts to have to rule so we'll just have to wait and see.
Unfortunately there's no visibility in that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you again.
Thanks Paul.
Next we'll hear from Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Yeah.
Hi everyone.
Just further on the Hawaiian deal what's the latest in terms of timelines for approval? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Steve we're still hopeful that we're going to be able to get all regulatory approvals by the end of the year and that's the target that we're working towards.
Okay.
Is there any movement toward like settlement discussions or still more formal process? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think Steve that we're very early in the process right now and discovery will be ongoing through the summer.
And we expect all of the filings to be done by the end of August and so anything on the settlement front would be very premature.
Steve just data; we filed formal testimony.
I think we've had some 300 interrogatories or data requests so far.
We can expect to have a lot more over the coming months.
That's good.
We want to make sure that all legitimate questions are appropriately aired and that people get the answers to the questions they have because we firmly believe this is fundamentally a good deal for folks in Hawaii customers as well as for shareholders.
So we want to make sure that all the facts come out but it will take a while and the schedule calls for that to go through the summer.
Okay.
And then one just follow-up question to some of the questions that came up on storage.
I'm curious if you've had any pre-insight to what Tesla is going to come out with tomorrow and if it's anything that's significant within your view of movement on battery storage.
NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Nope.
Unfortunately I didn't get my pre-earnings Twitter feed.
I have no idea Steve.
Okay.
Thank you.
And moving on we'll go Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
Question for you on electric transmission really merchant electric transmission.
Can you talk about the size and the scale of the California projects and then when you look around the landscape in North America not just U.S.
but Canada how big of a potential opportunity and how long-dated? Just on the California projects this is not huge.
What's interesting about this really is as we said in the prepared remarks it's a landmark.
It's the first competitive award to a non-incumbent.
So total capital for the two projects is going to be south of $100 million so not material by themselves.
In terms of the longer-term opportunity I mean the longer-term opportunity is multiple billions but as Armando I think indicated earlier it takes a long time to get there.
Certainly what I've observed since we have been actively working independent transmission development is that the development cycle is even long  we thought it was going to be long but it's even longer than we thought.
So there are many more instances of competitive solicitations that keep getting deferred for one reason or another so that's really behind the statement that we made at the Investor Conference and would repeat here today: that if we can get by the end of the decade to a business that's got an annual net income contribution of $50 million to $100 million that would be doing pretty well.
And obviously you can figure out the CapEx that's required to get to that kind of level given typical transmission returns.
And how do you guys think about what is as close to a normal run rate for the customer supply business for the retail business for your trading? Meaning is 2015 a normal year? Is it still below normal and still some of the offshoots from what happened last year? Just if you could parse those three lines of business within the year (51:54) and where you think they are versus what's your view of what a potential normal could look like? Well first of all in terms of normal overall I would say you can look to the two charts in the back for the 2015-2016 expectations as to  I think those are normal expectations given what we see today.
On the specific I think the way to think about the customer supply business is that last year's first quarter was truly abnormal in the negative sense because of the peculiarities of the way the market behaved in response to extreme weather conditions.
This year the weather conditions actually were not that dissimilar but the market behaved very differently.
And the customer supply business behaved much more as you would expect.
If anything it was actually probably a little ahead of where we would have steady-state profitability levels.
But having said that the profitability of that business does vary from period to period and year to year as people move in and out of the market.
It gets more or less competitive at different times.
So overall I think the forward-looking numbers that we have in those two charts with 2015 and 2016 for EBITDA and cash flow are reasonable representations of what we can expect for a typical year for those businesses.
Got it.
Thanks Moray much appreciated.
Thanks Michael.
I think we have time for one more question.
And next we'll hear from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good morning.
Morning Paul.
The customer supply business it looks to me like  and I apologize if you guys went over this at the conference  but it looks to me just from quarter-over-quarter that your expectations for that business are increasing.
And of course the quarter came out pretty well.
Could you just elaborate a little bit more in terms of  you guys said it was getting back to more normal levels or something.
Could you talk a little bit more about that? Yeah.
Well as I just said in response to Michael's question last year's first quarter was very strongly adversely affected in the Full Requirements business by the impact of extreme weather conditions winter weather conditions up in the Northeast.
That was not the case this year.
The market behaved much more normally in response to similar weather conditions and so the business behaved much more normally.
If anything it was again as I said a little bit ahead of our expectations.
But I guess what I'm  I'm sorry I wasn't clear.
The projections in your slides for 2015 and 2016 it looks to me like the customer supply as opposed to last quarter looks like the projections for 2015 and 2016 have increased annually significantly if I'm reading them correctly compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 when you guys had those slides there.
Do you follow me? There's a little bit of an increase in there.
Yeah.
Basically based on some of the good news that we see in this year we're essentially assuming that it will continue into next year.
Okay.
And that's simply because of the  okay.
And did you think that last quarter because you guys were apprehensive about the  was there anything that actually changed...
All right.
I see where you're going.
Yeah.
The impact of the way the markets behaved in this quarter is what gives us a little more comfort that the levels of profitability that we're seeing now may be what we should expect for the next couple of years.
Okay.
Thanks.
I'm sorry if I didn't ask the question clearly enough.
Okay.
I didn't understand it.
And then the legislation that  the PSC reform legislation any  it looks like it's been  the House abruptly has adjourned I guess.
And it looks like  if I understand it correctly maybe I don't that the Senate is sort of left with either the original House bill because I guess they amended it and were going to send it back to the House; (a) any thoughts about the legislation? Does it have any significant  do you see any significant impact that the legislation might have on you guys positive or negative? And (b) does it look it like it's going to happen I guess given what happened I guess yesterday or something? Florida Power &amp; Light Co.</span></strong> Right.
So this is Eric.
What I'll tell you is you're correct that the House sent back just before they adjourned the original House language.
So they stripped out the three amendments that the Senate had put on the House language when they sent it over to the House.
And so they sent it back to the Senate and then they adjourned which means that the Senate has a choice of either passing it as presented to them or not passing it.
They could not take it up that kills it; or they could vote it down that kills it; or they could pass it as it stands.
I don't see any significant impact really at all.
No kind of impact to us whatsoever; not worried about that.
What the Senate will do hard to predict.
It's always a challenge to figure out what's going to happen so we'll see if they even take it up.
Okay.
And if they did take it up I mean just if it was passed as I guess it came out of the House do you guys see this is as significant? It just seems like some reforms of sort of some of the elements to it.
It didn't seem like anything all that substantial.
I just wanted to check  but I mean maybe I'm wrong; is there any thoughts about it? Florida Power &amp; Light Co.</span></strong> No.
No.
You're correct.
There's nothing there.
I mean frankly it codifies what in many respects are already the rules.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
All right.
Thank you Paul.
Thank you everybody.
That completes our call.
Thank you for your interest.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Amanda Finnis.
Thank you Noah.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the second quarter 2015 combined earnings conference call for NextEra Energy and for NextEra Energy Partners.
With me this morning are Jim Robo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Mark Hickson Senior Vice President of NextEra Energy all of whom are also officers of NextEra Energy Partners; as well as Eric Silagy President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company; and John Ketchum Senior Vice President of NextEra Energy.
Moray will provide an overview of our results and then turn the call over to Jim for closing remarks.
Our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making forward-looking statements during this call based on current expectations and assumptions which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the Risk Factor section of the accompanying presentation or in our various reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found on our websites nexteraenergy.com and nexteraenergypartners.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Today's presentation also includes references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying today's presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of the non-GAAP measure to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to Moray.
Thank you Amanda.
Good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered solid second quarter results and continued to make excellent progress towards meeting its objectives for the year.
NextEra Energy Partners completed the acquisition of four projects from energy resources during the second quarter and just recently signed an agreement to purchase a portfolio of seven natural gas pipelines located in Texas.
As a result of NextEra Energy's strong financial performance during the first half of the year as well as this NEP acquisition announcement we are increasing our financial expectations for both businesses.
NextEra Energy's adjusted earnings per share increased $0.13 or 9%.
Growth was particularly strong at Energy Resources driven by continued strong contributions from new wind and solar project additions.
The impact of weak wind resource was roughly offset by another period of good performance from the customer supply business and increased contributions from the balance of the existing asset portfolio including the absence of an outage of Seabrook in comparison to the second quarter of last year.
Energy Resources had another excellent quarter of origination activity signing contracts for roughly 555 megawatts of new wind and solar projects since the last call including an additional 125 megawatts solar project that is expected to be delivered late in 2016 that was not in our earlier development forecast.
Energy Resources growth in adjusted EBITDA and operating cash flow continues to be strong year-to-date reflecting the addition of new contracted renewal projects due to the portfolio.
Florida Power &amp; Light remains on track to achieve its full year objectives.
The relatively modest growth in second quarter earnings per share from the prior year was generally in line with our expectations and was impacted by share dilution timing considerations in a number of smaller items regulatory capital employed the capital on which FPL was able to earn a return continued to grow quarter-on-quarter with a gradual increase expected throughout the year as FPL continues to make excellent progress on its major capital initiatives.
The Florida economy continues to expand at a healthy pace leading to an increasing customer accounts and a decline in inactive meters while a warm spring led to higher weather-related usage increasing both revenues and our reserve amortization balance.
FPL expects to earn in the upper half of the allowed ROE band through the remainder of the settlement period.
We continue to invest in the business with a focus on delivering value to customers and I'm pleased to note that we received approval from the Florida Public Service Commission on our modified Cedar gas reserves guidelines which we expect will allow us gradually to build a portfolio of gas producing assets to act as a long-term hedge for our customers.
We also announced our plan to move forward with the Okeechobee Clean Energy Center to meet a capacity need in 2019 and we entered into a settlement agreement with the Office of Public Counsel the consumer advocate in Florida regarding our proposal to acquire the Cedar Bay generation facility.
While the Florida Public Service Commission approval was still needed we view this as a positive development.
Overall we are very pleased with FPL's year-to-date results.
Both FPL and Energy Resources continue to deliver excellent operating performance the powerful [ph] and renewables generation fleet had one of their best periods ever with EFOR or the equivalent forced outage rate at less than 1% for the first half of the year.
FPL continued to provide excellent reliability to our customers and was recently named one of 2015 Most Trusted Brands according to a nationwide study conducted by Market Strategies International.
NextEra Energy Partners continues to execute against its growth plans while at the same time it's sponsor NextEra Energy Resources further extends its industry-leading pipeline of potential dropdown assets in addition to closing on four project acquisitions from Energy Resources during the quarter supporting growth in the second quarter distributions NEP has signed an agreement to acquire NET Midstream a developer owner and operator of seven natural gas pipelines located in Texas.
NET Midstream's pipeline assets are all strategically located serving residential commercial and industrial load in Houston Texas and in the Eagle Ford Shale area while the largest of the pipelines interconnect at the U.S.-Mexican border with one of Mexico's critical natural gas pipelines serving as a gateway to providing low cost Eagle Ford sourced gas to important load centers in Mexico.
These assets carry with them future growth and expansion opportunities have an industry-leading 16-year average contract life and are expected to provide attractive yields to NEP's investors.
In addition the pipelines will form an excellent complement to NEP's existing portfolio by providing high-quality predictable long-term cash flows that will reduce the resource variability in the overall NEP portfolio.
Finally this transaction is expected to drive NEP's near term distribution growth higher extend NEP's growth runway and at the same time be accretive to NextEra Energy's ongoing earnings.
I will provide additional details on the acquisition later in the call along with our latest growth expectations for both NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners.
In addition the NEP Board declared a quarterly distribution of $23.5 cents per common unit or $0.94 per common unit on an annualized basis up $0.12 per common unit on an annualized basis from the first quarter.
Overall we're very pleased with the second quarter results and are in excellent position leading into the second half of the year.
Now let's look at the results for FPL.
For the second quarter 2015 FPL reported net income of $435 million or $0.97 per share up $0.01 per share year-over-year.
Continued investment in the business was the principal driver of modest year-over-year growth offset primarily by the impact of share dilution.
During the second quarter average regulatory capital employed the capital on which FPL was able to earn a return increased 5.6% from the prior year comparable quarter with gradual increases expected in each of the third and fourth quarters as FPL completes its full-year capital investment program.
Results through the second quarter are generally in line with our expectations and we continue to expect the bulk of this year's earnings growth for FPL to be in the fourth quarter as the business remains on track for the year to deliver financial results consistent with our expectations.
Our reported ROE for regulatory purposes will be approximately 11.5% for the 12 months ending June 2015 and this remains our target for the full year.
As a reminder under the current rate agreement we record reserve amortization entries to achieve a predetermined regulatory ROE for each trailing 12-month period.
We entered 2015 with a reserve amortization balance of $278 million and finished the first quarter with a balance of $179 million to be utilized for the remainder of 2015 and 2016.
Due to higher revenues driven by weather-related usage and customer growth supported by a strong Florida economy during the second quarter we reversed $66 million of reserve amortization leaving us with a balance of $245 million at the end of June which could be utilized in the remainder of 2015 and 2016.
Looking beyond 2015 we continue to expect that the balance of the reserve amortization coupled with current CapEx and O&amp;M expectations will allow us to support regulatory ROE in the upper half of the allowed band of 9.5% to 11.5% through the end of our current rate agreement in 2016.
As always our expectations assuming normal weather and operating conditions.
Let me now take a moment to discuss updates since the last call on key capital initiatives.
We are very pleased that we received approval from the Florida Public Service Commission on Cedar gas reserves guidelines that will allow FPL to invest up to $500 million per year in future natural gas projects.
Although the amount we invest in each year will depend on the opportunities at that time we view this as an important step in what we hope to be a larger program to provide long-term hedges against potential volatility in the market price of natural gas for the benefit of customers.
Additionally since the last call we've announced our plans to move forward with the 1622 megawatt Okeechobee Clean Energy Center to fulfill the need for additional generation capacity in 2019 as Florida continues to grow.
With a projected cost of approximately $670 per kilowatt we expect this to be the most cost-effective combined cycle unit built to date in our fleet.
We intend to file for regulatory approval in the coming months and expect a comprehensive process of review over a 14 to 16 months timeframe.
Contingent upon receiving only due to approvals we expect to be in construction in 2017 with commercial operations mid-2019.
In a positive step forward on our proposal to purchase the Cedar Bay generation facility we have reached a settlement agreement with the Office of Public Counsel to support the transaction.
We expect a decision from the PSC on the settlement agreement later this month.
All other major capital initiatives including the Port Everglades modernization infrastructure improvements to our transmission and distribution system the addition of roughly 223 MW of cost-effective solar PV to our generation portfolio and the implementation of an upgrade solution to our peaker fleet remain on schedule and on budget.
The economy in Florida continues to grow at a healthy pace.
During the quarter the state passed another milestone by regaining older jobs lost during the great recession and in June reached 39 months of consistently outpacing the nation's rate of annualized job growth.
Strong jobs growth has also been reflected in the states' increased levels of personal income and consistently low rates of seasonally adjusted unemployment which are now around levels last seen in mid-2008.
Leading indicators in the real estate sector have also maintained a stable pace reflecting the continued strength of the Florida housing market.
Finally despite declining slightly from March the June reading of Florida's consumer sentiment remained close to the post-recession highs.
Turning now to our customer usage metrics the second quarter retail sales were up 7.6% with warm weather driving very strong cooling demand the primary driver of overall growth.
We estimate that approximately 6.1% of the total 7.6% growth in retail sales can be attributed to weather related usage per customer.
After adjusting for the effects of weather second quarter retail sales increased 1.5% of which customer growth exceeded expectations by accounting for approximately 1.7% with weather normalized usage per customer declining by approximately 0.2%.
As we discussed in the first quarter it can be difficult to know how much to attribute to weather particularly in periods with relatively strong weather comparisons.
Looking ahead we expect year-over-year weather normalized usage per customer to be close to flat after taking into account the impact of efficiency and conservation programs.
We do not expect modest changes in usage per customer to have a material effect on our earnings.
As a reminder for this year and next any effects of weather normalized usage are expected to be offset by the utilization of our reserve amortization and after the expiration of our current settlement agreement will be taken into account in our regulatory planning.
A number of low usage customers and inactive accounts continue to decline.
The 12-month average of low usage customers fell to approximately 7.9% while the average number of inactive accounts for the quarter declined to levels not seen since before 2000.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported second quarter 2015 GAAP earnings of $273 million or $0.61 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter were $251 million or $0.57 per share.
Energy Resources' adjusted EPS increased by $0.09 per share year-over-year.
The core business results were driven by continued strong contributions from growth in our contracted renewables business.
New wind and solar projects placed into service during or after the second quarter of 2014 added $0.10 per share.
Although the impact of all other effects was relatively minor there were a number of individually significant items.
Of particular note year-over-year results from our existing generating assets were significantly affected by generally weak wind resource which accounted for negative $0.14 per share versus the comparable quarter.
Wind resource was roughly 93% of the long-term average versus 109% in the second quarter last year.
The fleet-wide resource was the fifth lowest second quarter on record over the last 37 years with particularly poor results from the western part of the portfolio.
Unfortunately for reasons I will discuss later this resource weakness may continue for some time.
There are a number of offsetting effects as shown in the accompanying slide.
Energy Resources growth in adjusted EBITDA and cash flow has been strong year-to-date.
As compared to the first half of 2014 adjusted EBITDA and operating cash flow have increased 12% and 28% respectively although the latter number was boosted by temporary changes in working capital.
Nevertheless we continue to see full-year cash flow from operations growing 20% to 25% assuming no major changes in commodity prices and assuming normal operating conditions.
From an economic perspective NextEra Energy investors cash flow profile benefits from the LP unit distributions received from NEP as well as from the IDRs which we expect to begin receiving in the third quarter of this year.
The Energy Resources development team had another successful quarter of origination activity.
Since the first quarter call we signed power purchase agreements of 400 MW of wind as well as 155 MW of solar of which 125 MW is for 2016 delivery and 30 MW is for post 2016 delivery.
The 400 MW of wind added to backlog since the last call leaves a balance of 500 to 700 MW necessary to satisfy our previously announced 2016 forecast from the March investor conference.
Given the strength of our wind development pipeline our origination run rate this quarter and last and the historical customer push to find power purchase agreements before the expiration of production tax credits we expect to be able to find another approximately 700 MW of wind contracts before the end of the year which would bring us to the high-end of our previously announced 2016 wind build range.
We are very pleased with our solar development assets for the quarter as well.
The new 125 MW solar project for late 2016 delivery was not included in our previous development forecast and we have increased our expectations for new contracted renewable opportunities by this amount.
Turning now to the 80 MW solar contract that we mentioned on last quarter's call recent origination activity includes another 30 MW of solar signed for post 2016 delivery which continues to demonstrate that there is demand for solar projects based on post 2016 economics after the anticipated expiration of the current special IDC support.
The accompanying chart updates information we provided on last quarter's call reflects the 125 MW increase in our overall range of expectations for the development program that I just mentioned.
In rounded terms we now expect to bring into service a total of approximately 4 800 to 5 200 MW of renewables from 2015 through 2018.
Our forecast assumes PTC's expire at the end of 2016 with a further extension representing a potential upside to these numbers.
We are encouraged that the with Senate Finance Committee recently passed a tax extenders package that includes a two-year extension of the production tax credit while that is just one step in the process we are pleased by continued signs of bipartisan support.
In addition we continue to pursue development of solar wind and storage projects in Canada including the submission of development projects this September into the Ontario Power Authority's new RFP process which also represents a potential upside to our current forecast.
Let me now review the highlights for NEP.
Second quarter adjusted EBITDA was approximately $102 million and cash available for distribution was $50 million.
These results were slightly below our expectations for the quarter primarily due to weak wind and solar resource.
We have made excellent progress delivering future growth opportunities for NEP.
As you may recall last year we made a decision to undertake a near term acceleration in NEP's 2015 growth rate in order to reach the high IDR splits by the end of the year.
We believe this offers a very attractive value proposition for both NEP and NEE investors.
Against the objective we completed the acquisition of four projects totaling approximately 664 MW during the quarter supporting growth in second quarter distributions in line with our previously stated expectations.
The NEP Board declared an increased quarterly distribution of $23.5 cents per common unit or $0.94 per common unit on an annualized basis.
NextEra Energy Partners has also entered into an agreement to acquire NET Midstream a privately held developer owner and operator of a portfolio of seven long term contracted natural gas pipeline assets located in Texas.
The NET Midstream opportunity represents the first third party acquisition for the Partnership and establishes NEP's presence in the long term contracted natural gas pipeline space.
The combined portfolio includes 3.0 BCF per day of ship-or-pay contracts with on average investment-grade counterparty credit and a 16-year average contract life.
The acquisition is expected to provide attractive yields to our investors and complements the Partnership's existing renewables portfolio by reducing the impact of resource variability on the oval NEP portfolio.
In addition the acquisition provides a platform for future growth and expansion opportunities associated with the NET Midstream pipeline assets for both NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners.
From a NEP perspective the portfolio has planned growth and expansion projects that are expected to provide an additional 1.0 BCF per day of long-term contracted volumes.
$200 million of the purchase price is contingent on signing contracts representing roughly 60% of this expansion opportunity.
From a NextEra Energy perspective the acquisition provides economies of scale in pipeline operations and a platform for future growth as we build out the Sabal Trail Florida Southeast Connection and Mountain Valley pipeline projects while civil trial for the Celtic connection amount Valley pipeline projects while continuing to look for further investment opportunities in the pipeline space.
The seven natural gas pipelines in NET Midstream portfolios are power producers and municipalities in South Texas processing plants and producers in the Eagle Ford Shale and residential commercial and industrial customers in the Houston area and provide a critical source of natural gas transportation for low-cost U.S.
sourced shale gas to Mexico.
The two largest pipelines in the NET Midstream portfolio have an average age of approximately two years.
The largest pipeline in the portfolio the NET Mexico pipeline is 120-mile 42-inch diameter natural gas pipeline that delivers low-cost Eagle Ford Shale gas to the Mexico border under a 20-year ship-or-pay contract with a BBB+ rated wholly-owned subsidiary of PEMEX a Mexican state owned oil and gas company.
This pipeline is the largest connecting the Eagle Ford to the Mexican border and it has the lowest tariff.
There is a strong alignment of interest with PEMEX as it owns 10% of the NET Mexico pipeline which in turn interconnects with the U.S.-Mexico border with a large strategic natural gas pipeline system the initial part of which is jointly owned by PEMEX and Sempra.
We believe this pipeline system called the Los Ramones pipeline system is critical to PEMEX's growth plans to ensure the adequate supply of natural gas to the three largest demand regions of Mexico that account for approximately 75% of Mexico's gas demand.
Natural gas demand in Mexico has been growing substantially over the last five years while at the same time Mexico based natural gas supply has been declining which we believe increases Mexico's need for U.S.
gas imports.
As a result we believe the NET Mexico pipeline is strategically positioned as a gateway to providing low-cost U.S.
sourced shale gas to meet the increasing demand of Mexico load centers and growing natural gas markets.
The second largest natural gas pipeline in NET Midstream's portfolio Eagle Ford pipeline is an approximately 158-mile large diameter natural gas pipeline located in the Eagle Ford Shale anchored by a long-term ship-or-pay commitment from an investment-grade producer.
The systems connection to the Agua Dulce Hub with access to multiple pipeline interconnects as well as Mexican markets uniquely positions the system to attract additional Eagle Ford Shale volumes.
The third largest pipeline in the portfolio Monument pipeline is an approximately 156-mile 16-inch pipeline that transports gas from the Katy hub to the growing city gates of Houston as well as to the Houston ship channel and into Galveston County.
There are also four smaller Texas pipelines in the portfolio that serve a variety of pipelines and residential loads.
NextEra Energy Partners has elected not to hold the NET Midstream assets in a master limited partnership format since the pipeline assets are expected to create and utilize their own tax attributes to shield taxable income for a period generally consistent with that of the partnerships renewable assets and as a result our expectations regarding the overall tax shield for NextEra Energy Partners remain largely unchanged.
The transaction is valued at $2.1 billion.
The total transaction size includes initial consideration of $1.8 billion which NEP expects will be financed in part by approximately $600 million of non-amortizing debt secured by the acquired assets.
The transaction also contemplates a future expansion investment of roughly $300 million in 2016.
This $300 million investment includes the $200 million contingent payment I mentioned earlier payable only upon signing the expansion projects and is expected to be financed primarily with debt.
Overall permanent financing is expected to consist of approximately $1.2 billion of equity and $900 million of debt.
NEP has secured a $1.0 billion bridge loan facility that is available to draw on subject specified conditions to support funding requirements.
NEP expects to close the transaction within the next 75 days.
The acquisition is expected to contribute 2016 adjusted EBITDA and CAFD of roughly $145 million to $155 million and $110 million to $120 million respectively.
Assuming the expansion projects are completed as planned the acquisition is expected to contribute 2018 adjusted EBITDA and CAFD of roughly $190 million to $210 million and $135 million to $155 million respectively.
The transaction is expected to be immediately accretive to NextEra Energy Partners' distributions or unit and NextEra Energy's earnings per share.
We believe the acquisition price is attractive as it compares favorably against precedent transactions in the pipeline space for similar assets with similar cash flow profiles and is expected to provide an attractive yield to NEP investors as well.
In addition this acquisition opportunity extends NextEra Energy Partners runway for future drop-downs by eliminating the need for an acquisition of certain assets from Energy Resources that would have otherwise been required to meet its growth expectations for the year.
In addition the strong renewals origination growth at Energy Resources continues to expand the pipeline of generating and other assets potentially available for sale to NextEra Energy Partners in the future.
We continue to believe that the ability to demonstrate a strong and highly visible runway for future growth is an important distinguishing factor for investors and a core strength of the NEP value proposition.
We are very pleased with this particular acquisition opportunity and our future prospects for growth.
Turning now to the consolidated results for NextEra Energy for the second quarter of 2015 GAAP net income attributable to NexEra Energy was $716 million or $1.59 per share.
NexEra Energy's 2015 second quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $699 million and $1.56 respectively with adjusted EPS up 9% over prior year comparable quarter.
As we discussed on the first quarter call our earnings per share account for dilution associated with the settlement of our forward agreement of 6.6 million shares that occurred in December of 2014.
In June the settlement occurred for the forward contract component of the equity units that were issued in May 2012.
The impact to dilution in the second quarter was approximately $0.03 per share.
Adjusted earnings from the corporate and other segment increased $0.03 per share compared to the second quarter of 2014 primarily due to miscellaneous corporate items none of which was individually notable.
As a reminder results associated with NexEra Energy transmission and gas pipelines are reported through the corporate and other segment.
During the quarter our transmission team continued to work on the execution of awarded projects as well as our pipeline of development projects.
Additionally our current gas pipeline initiatives continue to make solid progress.
The development of both Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection continue to remain on track and we are expected to be in a position to receive FERC approval in early 2016 to support commercial operation by mid-2017.
The Mountain Valley pipeline project concluded the scoping process as part of the pre-filing process with a FERC application targeted for the second half of this year.
We continue to expect approximately 2 Bcf per day of 20 year firm capacity commitments with an expected capital opportunity for NexEra Energy of $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion supporting commercial operations by year-end 2018.
Despite the strong performance in the first half we continue to expect adjusted earnings per share for 2015 to be in the range of $5.40 to $5.70.
The very strong recovery of our customer supply and trading business in the first half was largely offset by poor wind resource.
Unfortunately although we cannot draw any firm numerical conclusions we do know that the strong El Nio cycle that we are now in tends to be correlated with below average continental wind resource and we also know that meteorological expectations for the El Nio phase to continue.
Nonetheless we expect the overall strength and diversity of the NexEra Energy portfolio to enable us to meet the expectations originally established on our third quarter 2014 call.
We also expect NexEra Energy's operating cash flow adjusted for the potential impacts of certain FPO close recoveries in the Cedar Bay acquisition to grow by 10% to 11% in 2015.
Looking beyond 2015 the team has made excellent progress firming up some of the investment opportunities that we have previously discussed and the strength of the recent origination activity of Energy Resources has increased our expectations for growth opportunities in the years ahead.
Having completed a closer evaluation of the 2016 through 2018 timeframe combined with the anticipated contribution from the Texas pipeline acquisition we just discussed our outlook has improved from the expectations we have previously shared.
We expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $5.85 to $6.35 f or 2016 and in the range of $6.60 to $7.10 for 2018 implying a compound annual growth rate of 2014 base of 6% to 8% through 2018.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats including but not limited to normal weather and operating conditions.
Turning now to NEP the acquisition of NET Midstream increases our expectations for near-term growth.
We now expect the NEP portfolio to grow to support a distribution at an annualized rate of $1.23 by the end of the year meaning the fourth quarter distribution that is payable in February 2016.
Our expectations for 2015 adjusted EBITDA of $400 million to $440 million and CAFD of $100 million to $120 million are unchanged.
After 2015 we continue to see 12% to 15% per year growth in LP distributions as being a reasonable range of expectations through 2020.
Assuming trading level is consistent with current market conditions this implies 2016 adjusted EBITDA of $710 million to $760 million and 2016 CAFD of $250 million to $280 million.
These expectations are net of expected IDR fees of $30 million to $40 million for 2016 as we expect these fees to be treated as an operating expense.
With that I will turn the call over to Jim for closing remarks.
Thanks Moray and good morning everyone.
It's been a terrific first half of the year.
At both NEE and NEP we've executed well both financially and operationally and we've had strong execution of our growth plans all across the board.
At FPL the team continued to make excellent progress against our core strategy of investing to further improve our customer value proposition.
Our goal at FPL was nothing less than to be the cleanest lowest cost and most reliable utility in the nation and we are well on our way to achieving that.
At Energy Resources we've made terrific progress against our core strategy of being the world's largest generator of wind and solar energy.
I feel better than I ever have about our renewables growth prospects and the quality of our renewables development pipeline.
In our gas pipeline business I am very pleased with NEP's announced acquisition of seven high-quality and long-term contracted pipeline assets in Texas.
When combined with Sabal Trail Florida Southeast Connection and the Mountain Valley pipeline the transaction is expected to expand our scale and scope in the natural gas pipeline space serving as a platform for future growth.
NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners form an excellent strategic partnership.
I think NEE is a terrific sponsor for NEP with an industry-leading and growing runway of potential long-term contracted assets.
NEP offers NEE the ability to highlight the value of these assets and is a significant source of cash flow for NEE as well.
In addition the expected growth of general partner incentive distributions from NEP to NEE will be an increasingly important source of cash and potential value to NEE shareholders.
Based on all of these factors together with the strong growth in our underlying cash flow from operations I'm pleased to discuss an announcement by the Board of NextEra Energy to implement a new dividend policy for NEE shareholders.
As you may recall in 2012 the Board of NextEra Energy approved a dividend policy targeting a 55% payout ratio for 2014 that was based on an analysis of appropriate payout levels for regulated utilities contracted assets and other portions of our business mix.
At that time the new policy were the two years of roughly 10% growth per year dividends per share.
In thinking about longer-term dividend policy the Board takes into account amongst many other factors the changing mix of NextEra Energy's portfolio of businesses and the ongoing levels of dividend payout generally supportable by each major segment of the portfolio as well as the payout ratios of competing businesses in each of those major segments.
Through the launch of NEP and other yieldcos we believe there is new market evidence regarding payout ratios supported by a strong and balanced portfolio of contracted assets.
What has become clear is that a business like Energy Resources that is largely composed of contracted generation assets and cash flows can and should support a higher dividend payout ratio.
Applying higher market comparable payout ratios to the contracted portfolio of Energy Resources yields a higher portfolio average payout.
In addition when looking at the payout ratios of a broader peer group of yieldcos other infrastructure companies and regulated utilities targeting a higher level would more closely align NextEra Energy with its peers.
Combining these market factors with the expectation for energy resources contracted EBITDA and cash flow to continue to increase through 2018 as a result of new project additions and the receipt of proceeds from NEP for asset acquisitions limited partnership distributions and incentive distribution rights fees we feel it is warranted to highlight more directly the strong underlying cash flow productivity of the Energy Resources business.
Although the decision by the Board of Directors to pay a dividend must consider all the facts and circumstances at the time of declaration the Board presently expects to increase our dividend payout ratio from its current level of 55% to a target dividend payout ratio of 65% by 2018.
We expect this new dividend policy along with our expectations for growth in adjusted earnings per share to yield dividend per share growth of 12% to 14% per year through at least 2018 of a 2015 base of dividends per share of $3.08.
The Board of Directors of NextEra Energy declared a quarterly dividend of $0.77 per share.
Based on the timing of the increased cash flow from the year in relationships with NEP that I just described we expect the dividend to begin to increase within the framework of the new dividend policy that I just described in 2016 in a manner designed to continue to support our target credit metrics and our strong credit position.
As a result we do not expect this change to have any material effect on our credit ratings.
In summary I am as enthusiastic as ever about our future prospects.
FPL Energy Resources and NEP continue to make excellent progress across the board against all our strategic growth initiatives.
Today's announcements of increasing our expectations for both NEE and NEP as well as an increased payout ratio at NEE are reflections of that enthusiasm.
With that we'll now open the line for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Hey good morning guys.
On the NEP acquisition this morning you guys have been telegraphing that you wanted to do something out in the market but you kind of go in the pipeline side versus renewable side can you just talk about the returns you are seeing in those different asset classes and then also kind of what sort of IRRs you're seeing on that project since you have to keep goading us to look out for the value of these projects? Good morning Dan it's Armando.
First of all the way we looked at it is its pipelines right so we have different metrics different economics that we' re looking at in that business than in the renewable business and it is not a Greenfield opportunity so the returns are you know certainly not what you would expect from Greenfield renewable assets.
But having said that it is based on all of the market metrics that we looked at a very positive acquisition both in just terms of EV to EBITDA which is around 12 12.5 times but also in terms of CAFD but its cash available for distribution.
It's important to note that we did the acquisition because it's a good acquisition economically for NEP.
This wasnt an acquisition that we did for other reasons i.e.
IDR reasons at NEE.
It is a very positive acquisition and we're very happy with it.
Just the expenses you asked about the IRRs without going into the numbers they are very consistent with other investments that we've been seeing in the pipeline space and significantly above the IRRs that were seeing in the third party acquisition market for renewable assets at the moment.
So these returns are better than what we've seen in the renewables market? In the third party acquisition market there are substantially yes that market as I think you know become they are down returns have come a down significantly.
Okay and then I guess just on the increase in both the EPS growth rate and the dividend growth rate how should we think about long-term equity financing and funding needs of the company as more dollars or underlying growth are going to be returned back to shareholders through the dividend? Dan this is John.
The change in the dividend policy was all about cash flows at Energy Resources.
You know we've executed very well on our long-term contracted renewables plan.
We've had strong growth at NEP as well.
And then looking out at the peers in terms of where the payout ratios are for other yieldcos and infrastructure plays we thought that justified a higher payout ratio.
And when you look at what the financing requirements will be long-term in that to finance the dividend we have a lot of underlying cash flow that's going to be available to support that and then we also have a lot of levers available that we can pull internally to go ahead and finance what is going to be a small cash need.
Okay thank you guys.
Dan just to supplement that remember that one of the effects of having NEP is that we really are accelerating the realization of the underlying cash flows from the projects so effective financing needs are lower than they were in a pre-NEP world.
Were ready for the next question.
And well take our next question from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Jonathan.
Just a quick one just I'm not sure we heard this correctly but on the expansion at NET is it $300 million of additional spend but that breaks down $200 million as consideration and only $100 million of CapEx do I understand that right? Yes thats roughly right it is about $200 million in additional consideration about $85 million in CapEx.
We rounded that to about $300 million.
And so but then $50 million of incremental EBITDA can you just give us a little sense of how then it looks like a pretty decent return on that just if we ignore the consideration piece what exactly is going on.
Well I think whats going on there is we wanted to make sure that for other incremental opportunities that we both were not paying the same thing as we were for the opportunities that were already in the door.
So thats why youve got a roughly six times EBITDA EBIT to EBITDA multiple on that and roughly about 12.5 times on the whole deal.
The expansions Armando are they contracted and what yet has to be done to? It will well the contracts would have to be signed.
Right? Theyre not signed.
If they were signed then it would be just be part of the deal but we feel pretty good about them based on the details that we know about the opportunities themselves but we also feel like there is a good alignment of interest between the sellers and the buyers that there is an opportunity obviously to increase the purchase price by couple $100 million.
So we feel good with the alignment of interest and we feel good with the underlying opportunities which will again be long-term contracted type opportunities in the 20-year range.
Okay and did you say what sort of timeframe you expect for clarifying that? Yes our expectation is that they'd be done in 12 months.
Okay and then just if I may just one other thing we noticed this typical slide on the financial outlook the resources businesses is no longer in the deck is that has that gone permanently or is it just well digesting some of these new things? Its the latter.
The introduction of the NET Mexico acquisition is likely to change our thinking about further acquisitions for any NEP.
While we have made a rough aggregate cut of that we havent yet rippled all that down to the level of the individual segments that are shown in the chart that youre referring to Jonathan.
So rather than trying to doing something in haste and introduce the possibility of errors as we pulled it for this quarter but we expect to bring it back with the third quarter.
Great thank you very much.
And well take our next question from Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Hey good morning it's Julien here.
Good morning.
So perhaps just to touch base on the credit implications in this all can you elaborate on how youre thinking about the overall consolidated next year balance sheet from both the GPS any acquisitions and perhaps in conjunction with that speaks to a potential desire to expand the platform more towards midstream and/or perhaps with a need to maintain a regulated mix in the portfolio? Let me ask Jim to comment on the second part the strategy aspect and then John will comment on the credit metric side.
Yes looking at it from a credit metrics standpoint were fine.
We're within the range that weve committed to with the agencies.
The acquisition opportunity again will be about $1.2 billion of equity $900 million of debt.
I'll let Jim speak more about the strategic elements.
Good morning Julien.
So I think weve always said that we have liked the pipeline space I think originally when we announced Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection we said that that was not going to be a one and done exercise for us that we felt like the pipeline space was both attractive.
It was long term contract typically and it was attractive to our over business mix both from a shareholder perspective as well as from a fixed income and credit perspective and I continue to believe that and we are going to be continuing to be looking for opportunities to expand our presence there and it is a - this acquisition we are announcing at NEP today is another piece of expanding and growing that platform.
Excellent and then perhaps just the follow up [indiscernible] question here current year guidance just to be clear about it effectively youre keeping your guidance in place because of your expectations for continued weak weather throughout the balance of this year? This year yes that is fundamentally right we think that there is going to be some spill over from the El Nino effect into the second half of the year and thats likely to offset the sort of goodness that weve had so far.
Hopefully were wrong and if we got a normal weather year but that is kind of how were feeling right now.
Actually just and just trying to push on this a little bit and weather forecasting but just you would in theory last throughout the duration of this weather cycle? So its a multiyear effect just to be clear and you raised your guidance in despite multiyear weather headwinds from weaker weather or weaker winds specifically? Yes I think were only taking a view on the impact of the El Nino cycle on this year lets see how it goes.
These correlations are not the strongest but they are at least meaningful in the short-term see how 2016 looks later on.
Got it.
All right.
Well congratulations again.
Thank you.
Thanks Julien.
We'll take our next question from Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Greg.
Congratulations on a great quarter despite the wind resource you were facing is it a testament to the diversification of the business.
Can you go over the timing on when this deal is going to close and when youre expecting to finance it as per usual in this capital market over the last few weeks that deal close are responding very negatively to any financing overhang even if is an accretive deal like the one you have announced so how do you plan on navigating that? So we plan to close a deal sometime before the middle of October.
In terms of financing the deal were going to look for opportunities in the market to raise that equity during that time period.
Importantly we have I think Moray mentioned it if I remember correctly in the prepared remarks.
We already have a $1 billion credit facility that backs up the equity issuance.
Its a one year term facility at very attractive pricing.
So we have obviously we want to be able to meet the financing plans and issue the equity at some point before closing.
But were not going to do something silly either and thats why we have the backup credit to take down if we need it.
And just to add to that Greg this is Jim.
I think its important to understand that even with this acquisition remember were going to this acquisition replaces in part several assets that we would have dropped down this year anyway and the total equity needs in NEP was a little bit higher as a result of this acquisitions because were going to have a little bit higher distribution growth than we originally thought for this year arent actually meaningfully higher than what were going to have otherwise.
And so I think its  I think from a funding standpoint the reality is is that we have a lot of different levels there and as Armando said we are going to be smart about it and were in this four weve always said were in NEP for the long-term and were going to continue to do whats right for both NEP unit holders and NEE shareholders.
Thanks.
One other question that is a little bit bigger picture obviously we are getting the big reveal today from the administration on the carbon rules the visibility you have on your backlog through 2016 is very robust and its a little bit less.
So have you said in your last update we will go out in the decade is your expectation that this should galvanize counterparties to want to enter into arrangements with you for post 16 or are we really waiting more for the tax situation to change in terms of getting patronage of the extension of the PTC? Well Greg I think its a little bit of both I think in the near term most of the drivers behind incremental renewable contracting will be driven by getting clarity on the incentives but there is no question that todays announcement is positive for renewables and will be positive in the long-term for our renewable business at NextEra Energy Resources.
So I would view it quite positively there from that standpoint.
All right thanks again.
Thanks Greg.
Well take our next question from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
Real quick this one maybe for Eric and team when I go back and look at the Slide Deck on FP&amp;L in terms of expected capital spending the slide deck you gave it at the investor day how has that changed? What is your expectation now both for 2016 and kind of the 2017 2018 average level for expected CapEx and therefore rate base at the utility? Hey Michael I would say its basically roughly the same I dont see any material changes the reserves guidelines were approved.
We had that also in the presentation deck so were moving forward with that.
I think its I think it would be safe to assume that were roughly in line with where we were.
Okeechobee weve got we still have to get a need for that but the RP process is done and so were moving forward with that as well.
Okay.
Next year is a rate case year.
I know its probably too early to talk about the number side of it.
Can you talk to us just about the process and what are some of the key  I dont know the policy implications or things you might be looking for if any in terms of changes in Florida regulation as part of this process? Yes I will start with the process so as you'll recall Michael it requires a first to test letter is filed we would expect that to occur late fourth quarter or early first quarter and then that kind of kicks off formally the process the rate case it is an eight to nine months process.
The PSC sets the schedule ultimately but obviously we have to have it all done with the final order in place sometime in the November timeframe so we can go ahead and set rates for beginning of January 17.
As to the overall policy we are in a strong position I think to from a standpoint of what we have delivered to customers we will be spending a lot of time with the Commission reviewing what weve done in the past four years during this last rate agreement and we've maintained a lowest [indiscernible] and highest reliability and we will be focusing on that kind of performance and how do we maintain that going forward.
Got it thanks guys.
Much appreciate it.
We will take our next question from Brian Chin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Question for you on the pipeline transaction I noticed that the debt is non-amortizing debt can you just comment on thoughts around how we should think about that going forward are there plans to potentially convert that to more amortizing debt down the road or is that not really on the cards? The non-amortizing debt which comes with the deal were not actually we're adding a little piece of couple $200 million of non-amortizing debt to the dealers.
So we expect to potentially refinance that but if we do refinance it its a pretty decent terms on the debt.
If we do refinance it it will likely be non-amortizing debt but we dont expect at this point to add significantly to the non-amortizing debt from the deal.
Brian just to supplement these non-amortizing debts fairly common in the pipeline space and I think for us one of the things that were really starting to think about is whether non-amortizing debt has more of a role on the renewable side than it historically has for us.
Historical model has not employed non-amortizing debt but that maybe something that we wont take advantage of later on given the longevity and the good fundamentals we are seeing for the renewables business.
Can you just go into that Moray a little bit more on the general thought process of why non-amortizing debt makes more sensible renewables and how that matches up with pipelines just if you could expand on that a little bit more that will be helpful? Yes sure historically we've thought of individual wind contract wind projects you see largely as standalone entities that need to recover their cost their capital cost through the period of the contract.
When you put them in a portfolio in a vehicle like NextEra Energy Partners and given the long-term outlook for the need for renewable capacity in the country I think the I'm certainly taking the view now that were seeing the potential for those assets to go on for longer in which case it makes sense to think about increasing the cash coming off them that's available for distribution earlier than would otherwise be the case.
So thats what pushes you down the path of thinking about the use of non-amortizing debt.
Thats really helpful.
Thank you very much.
Hey I think we have time for one more.
And well take our final question from Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Yes hi good morning and congrats.
The couple things that I guess you didnt mentioned first is any kind of thoughts on the Hawaiian deal and just there does seem to opposition in your ability to get that done? Steve this is Jim obviously the state filed a testimony ten days ago saying that they opposed the deal in its current form and the Governor held a press release where he press conference where he said he opposed the deal in its current form.
I think the key the keywords there in its current form they also the state also listed several conditions that would be I think just positive for them to think about changing their view.
And we are in the process of responding to that testimony and we think we have a very strong case to put forward to the Commission around the benefits to customers the benefits to customers were actually pretty compelling and I think were going be able to make that case as we go forward.
So this was not necessarily a surprise to me that the state filed a kind of testimony that they did and we are going to continued to move forward on laying out our arguments and we look forward to the hearings were going to have in December to make our case.
Okay and my other question is just on the there is some recent story that you might be looking to sell your Texas merchant assets.
I dont know if you could talk about that and but may be more if you can at a high level how much are you looking at may be monetizing some assets within the newer business I guess assets are less contracted? So Steve I think were not going to comment on any individual potential transaction thats been rumored out there.
I will say that and this is not a surprise that weve been consistently pretty bearish about the merchant markets around the country.
I think as we continue to see the technology trends in renewables both in solar and winds and their impacts in those markets where you see high penetration of solar and wind we continued to be pretty bearish merchant markets around the country.
So I think if anything our views are even more bearish and there were a year ago and we will as we always say we always evaluate our portfolio and were always looking for ways to optimize it and that hasnt changed and wont change in the future.
Okay thank you.
Thanks everybody.
That I think completes our time.
And this does conclude todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Amanda Finnis.
Thank you Leo.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the third quarter 2015 combined earnings conference call for NextEra Energy and for NextEra Energy Partners.
With me this morning are Jim Robo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Mark Hickson Senior Vice President of NextEra Energy all of whom are also officers of NextEra Energy Partners; as well as Eric Silagy President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company; and John Ketchum Senior Vice President of NextEra Energy.
John will provide an overview of our results and then turn the call over to Jim for closing remarks.
Our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making forward-looking statements during this call based on current expectations and assumptions which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the risk factor section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found on our websites www.nexteraenergy.com and www.nexteraenergypartners.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Today's presentation also includes references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying today's presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to John.
Thank you Amanda and good morning everyone.
NextEra Energy delivered solid third quarter results driven by new investments at both FPL and Energy Resources.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 3% or $0.05 per share against the prior-year quarter.
Along with our strong performance in the first and second quarters and excellent progress against our objectives for the full year NextEra Energy is well-positioned to close out 2015 in the upper half of our $5.40 to $5.70 range of adjusted EPS expectations subject to our usual caveats.
At Florida Power &amp; Light earnings per share increased $0.02 from the prior year comparable quarter.
It was a warm summer season with above-normal weather-related usage increasing both retail base revenues and our reserve amortization balance while allowing us to continue to earn at the upper end of our approved ROE range.
We remain focused on delivering customer value through best-in-class daily operations and execution against our initiatives to drive down costs reduce fuel expenses and improve reliability.
During the quarter FPL filed to lower electric rates again by about $2.50 a month on average in 2016 compared with current rates.
We are very pleased to be able to deliver award-winning customer service with monthly bills for a typical residential customer lower than $100 and lower than they were a decade ago.
We continue to have an outstanding opportunity set ahead of us and all of our major capital projects are on track.
At Energy Resources our results were in line with our financial expectations for the quarter and Energy Resources is well-positioned to attain its full-year expectations.
Adjusted EPS at Energy Resources declined by $0.04 against the comparable prior-year quarter.
The core Energy Resources story is unchanged as we continue to benefit from growth in our contracted renewables portfolio.
In addition our renewables origination results remain very strong.
The team signed contracts for approximately 725 megawatts of new wind and solar projects since the last call including approximately 600 megawatts of wind for 2016 delivery.
Based on everything we see now we are on track to exceed the high end of our previously announced 2015 to 2016 wind-build range.
We continue to believe that the fundamentals for the renewable business have never been stronger.
NEP remains on track to meet its distribution per unit expectations of $1.23 on an annualized basis by year-end subject to our usual caveats.
Since the last call the financing and acquisitions of NET Midstream and the Jericho wind project were completed.
Third quarter adjusted EBITDA and CAFD which did not include contributions from either of these acquisitions were slightly below our expectations due to wind resource.
Wind resource was 93% of the long-term average for the NEP portfolio while the long-term average for the Energy Resources portfolio was slightly higher at 97% for the quarter.
The NEP board declared an increased quarterly distribution of $0.27 per common unit or $1.08 per common unit on an annualized basis.
Not only do we expect to deliver on our financial expectations for 2015 but we also are well-positioned against our 2016 financial plan.
At FPL we expect to earn in the upper half of the allowed ROE band and as we have done this year we expect continued strong execution against our capital deployment program for the benefit of Florida customers.
For Energy Resources we expect increased contributions from new renewables to drive adjusted earnings growth.
Overall we remain very comfortable with the 2016 adjusted EPS expectations we communicated in the second quarter earnings call.
Let me now take you through the details of our third quarter results beginning with FPL.
For the third quarter of 2015 FPL reported net income of $489 million or $1.07 per share up $0.02 per share year-over-year.
Regulatory capital employed increased by 7.8% over the same quarter last year and was the principal driver of FPL's net income growth.
This rate of growth in regulatory capital employed was higher than comparable measures in the first and second quarters this year and we expect another increase in the fourth quarter.
As we discussed in the last call we continue to expect the bulk of this year's earnings growth for FPL to be in the fourth quarter.
Our reported ROE for regulatory purposes will be approximately 11.5% for the 12 months ended September 2015 and this remains our target for the full year.
For 2016 we continue to target a regulatory ROE in the upper half of the allowed band of 9.5% to 11.5%.
As always our expectations assume among other things normal weather and operating conditions.
As a reminder under the current rate agreement we record reserve amortization entries to achieve a predetermined regulatory ROE for each trailing 12-month period.
During the third quarter due to higher retail based revenues driven by weather-related usage and customer growth we reversed $115 million of reserve amortization.
As part of the Cedar Bay settlement agreement with the Office of Public Counsel we agreed to reduce the total available reserve amortization balance by $30 million leaving us with an available reserve amortization balance of approximately $330 million at the end of the third quarter which could be utilized in the remainder of 2015 and 2016.
We continue to execute on our overall customer value proposition by delivering clean energy low bills and high reliability for Florida customers.
Each of our capital deployment initiatives to provide low-cost clean energy continues to progress in accordance with our development plans.
Our generation modernization project at Port Everglades is on schedule to come online in mid-2016 and remains on track to meet its budget.
Development of our three new large-scale solar projects remains on schedule with each of these roughly 74 megawatt projects expected to be completed in 2016.
These projects once complete will roughly triple the solar capacity on our system and add to the overall fuel diversity of our fleet which is important for FPL and its customers.
As a reminder consistent with our focus on delivering cost-effective renewables for our customers these projects reflect specific opportunities that take advantage of the remaining 30% ITC window while leveraging existing infrastructure and prior development work.
Aside from these specific projects utility-scale solar which is by far the most cost-efficient form of providing renewable energy in our service territory particularly as compared to residential roof-top applications is becoming more cost-effective across our entire service territory.
We continue to expect that there will be additional opportunities for utility-scale solar on FPL's system by the end of the decade.
During the quarter the Florida Public Service Commission issued its final order on its approval of modified natural gas reserve guidelines for up to $500 million per year in potential additional investments which we continue to view as an important step in what we hope will be a larger program.
The development team is actively evaluating new investment opportunities to lock in historically low natural gas prices for the benefit of Florida customers.
Also during the quarter we closed on our acquisition of Cedar Bay and filed a determination of need for the approximately 1600 megawatts $1.2 billion Okeechobee Clean Energy Center to be placed into service in mid-2019.
FPL also continues to execute on its investments to improve reliability for Florida customers by upgrading its transmission and distribution network.
We expect to invest approximately $3 billion to $4 billion in infrastructure improvements through 2018 with roughly $900 million of this amount being deployed this year.
I am pleased to report that on a year-to-date basis FPL has achieved its best-ever period of system reliability and is on track to deliver its best-ever reliability performance on a full-year basis.
Last week FPL won multiple national awards including being recognized as the most reliable electric utility in the nation.
Looking ahead in 2016 we expect to deploy approximately 28 000 smart grid devices across our system as we continue to execute on our program to further improve system reliability.
All of these initiatives are focused on delivering superior customer value.
Our residential bills are 30% below the national average the lowest among reporting utilities in the state and lower than bills paid by FPL customers 10 years ago.
Overall we are extremely pleased with the execution at FPL and our relentless focus to deliver low bills high reliability clean emissions and excellent customer service.
The Florida economy continues to improve.
The state's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in September was 5.2% down 0.6 percentage points from a year ago and the lowest since early 2008.
Over the same time period Florida's job growth was 3% a continuation of a five-year trend in positive job growth with close to 1 million jobs gained since the low in December 2009.
Along with the strong growth in jobs retail activity has increased markedly since the trough in mid-2009 and July retail activity grew 8.6% since last year.
At the same time the September reading of Florida's consumer sentiment remained close to the pre-recession highs.
With the Florida housing sector the Case-Shiller Index for South Florida shows home prices up 7.5% from the prior year and mortgage delinquency rates continued to decline.
As an indicator of new construction new building permits remain at healthy levels.
Third quarter retail sales were up 2.6% from the prior-year comparable quarter and we estimate that approximately 1.4% of this amount can be attributed to weather-related usage per customer.
Our weather-related retail sales increased 1.2% comprised of continued customer growth of approximately 1.6% reflecting the growing population of our service territory offset by a decline in weather-normalized usage per customer of approximately 0.4%.
This measurement reflects a residual from our estimation of the impact of weather.
This is particularly challenging in periods with relatively strong weather comparisons such as we have had in the first three quarters of the year.
However based on the average of negative 0.3% for this reading over the last 12 months we have reduced our outlook for weather-normalized usage per customer.
Looking ahead we expect year-over-year weather-normalized usage per customer to be between flat and negative 0.5% per year primarily reflecting the impact of efficiency and conservation programs.
As we had discussed last quarter we do not expect modest changes in usage per customer to have a material effect on our earnings.
For this year and next any effects of weather-normalized usage are expected to be offset by the utilization of our reserve amortization and after the expiration of our current settlement agreement will be taken into account in our regulatory planning.
The average number of inactive accounts in September declined 16% from the prior year and the 12-month average of low-usage customers fell to 7.8% down from 8% in September of 2014.
We remain encouraged by the positive economic trends in Florida and continue to expect above-average growth in our service territory.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources which reported third quarter 2015 GAAP earnings of $375 million or $0.82 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter were $221 million or $0.48 per share.
Energy Resources' third quarter adjusted EPS decreased $0.04 per share from last year's comparable quarter.
NextEra Energy benefited from continued growth in our contract to renewables' portfolio reflecting the addition of more than 1 900 megawatts of wind and solar projects during or after the third quarter of 2014 as well as positive contributions from the customer supply and trading business in the existing generation portfolio.
Wind resources were roughly 97% of the long-term average versus 95% in the third quarter of last year.
Offsetting the positives among other things were higher interest expense due to growth in the business and higher corporate expenses due largely to timing differences and increased renewables development activity in light of what we consider to be a very positive landscape for the renewables business.
Results also were impacted by share dilution and lower state and federal tax incentives versus the prior-year comparable quarter.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA increased 9% and operating cash flow was strong.
We continue to expect full-year cash flow from operations to grow 20% to 25% subject to our usual caveats.
As I mentioned earlier the Energy Resources' development team had another very successful quarter of origination activity adding approximately 725 megawatts to our contracted renewables backlog since the last call.
Let me spend a bit of time now on where each program stands.
Since our last earnings call we have added approximately 600 megawatts to our wind backlog reflecting projects for 2016 delivery.
Based on the strength of our wind development pipeline we now expect to exceed the high end of our previously announced 2015 to 2016 wind-build range.
The origination of new solar projects has also been strong.
The team signed a 125 megawatt power purchase agreement for another new solar project for post-2016 delivery since last quarter's call demonstrating once again continued demand for solar projects even after the anticipated expiration of the 30% ITC support.
The accompanied slide updates information that we provided at our investor conference in March showing our excellent progress against our objectives for the 2015 to 2016 development program.
As we discussed last quarter we are encouraged that the Senate Finance Committee passed the tax extenders package in July that includes a two-year extension of the production tax credit.
Although this is just one step in the process we are pleased with signs of bipartisan support for a potential extension.
We expect to update our 2017 and 2018 wind-build estimates by our first quarter earnings call next year.
Overall we believe that the strong fundamentals for the renewables business will continue to strengthen with continued equipment cost declines improved efficiency advancements a potential PTC extension and the expected demand created by the EPA's new renewables targets under the clean power plan.
Let me now review the highlights for NEP.
Third quarter adjusted EBITDA was approximately $99 million and cash available for distribution was $15 million.
These results were slightly below our expectations for the quarter primarily due to weak wind resource but the portfolio remains on track to achieve the distribution per unit expectations that we have shared for the fourth quarter distribution payable in February.
Since the last call NEP completed the financing and acquisitions of NET Midstream and the 149-megawatt Jericho Wind project.
The NEP Board declared an increased quarterly distribution of $0.27 per common unit or $1.08 per common unit on an annualized basis.
Turning now to the consolidated results for NextEra Energy.
For the third quarter of 2015 GAAP net income attributable to NextEra Energy was $879 million or $1.93 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2015 third quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $730 million and $1.60 per share respectively with adjusted EPS up 3% over the prior-year comparable quarter.
As we have discussed on the prior two quarterly calls our earnings per share account for dilution associated with the settlement of our forward agreement of 6.6 million shares that occurred in December of 2014 and the June settlement of approximately 7.9 million shares associated with the equity units that were issued in May 2012.
In the third quarter the settlement occurred for approximately 8.2 million shares associated with the forward contract component of the equity units that were issued in September 2012.
The impact of dilution in the third quarter was approximately $0.05 per share.
Adjusted earnings from the corporate and other segment increased $0.07 per share compared to the third quarter of 2014 due to consolidating tax adjustments earnings that are in pipeline and transmission business and other miscellaneous corporate items none of which were individually notable.
The development of both the Sabal Trail Transmission pipeline and the Florida Southeast Connection pipeline continue to progress well through their respective processes.
We continue to expect to be in a position to receive FERC approval in early 2016 to support commercial operation by mid-2017.
The Mountain Valley pipeline project concluded the scoping process as part of the pre-filing procedure and filed its application with the FERC this month.
The project also added Roanoke Gas as a shipper and its affiliate as an equity partner.
Mountain Valley is an approximately 2 Bcf per day project with 20-year firm transportation agreements providing NextEra Energy a capital investment of $1 billion to $1.3 billion.
The project schedule continues to support commercial operations by year-end 2018.
We are very pleased with our progress so far this year at NextEra Energy.
As we discussed on the last call we are in a strong El Nio cycle that tends to be correlated with below average continental wind resource.
And we also know that meteorological expectations are for the El Nio phase to potentially continue through the fourth quarter and into the first quarter of 2016.
Nonetheless based on the overall strength and diversity of the NextEra Energy portfolio we expect to end the year in the upper half of the $5.40 to $5.70 range of adjusted EPS expectations that we shared with you previously.
We continue to expect NextEra Energy's operating cash flow adjusted for the potential impacts of certain FPL clause recoveries and the Cedar Bay acquisition to grow by 10% to 15% in 2015.
For 2016 we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $5.85 to $6.35 and in the range of $6.60 to $7.10 for 2018 implying a compound annual growth rate off a 2014 base of 6% to 8%.
For the reasons I mentioned earlier we feel particularly good about the opportunity set at both FPL and Energy Resources and are well positioned going into 2016.
We expect to grow our dividend per share 12% to 14% per year through at least 2018 off a 2015 base of dividends per share of $3.08.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats including but not limited to normal weather and operating conditions.
Let me now turn to NEP.
We continue to expect the NEP portfolio to grow to support a distribution and the annualized rate of $1.23 by the end of the year meaning the fourth quarter distribution that is payable in February 2016.
After 2015 we continue to see 12% to 15% per year growth in LP distributions as being a reasonable range of expectations through 2020 subject to our usual caveats.
Our expectations for 2015 adjusted EBITDA of $400 million to $440 million and CAFD of $100 million to $120 million are also unchanged subject to our usual caveats.
In addition last month we introduced run rate expectations for adjusted EBITDA and CAFD.
The December 31 2015 run rate expectations for adjusted EBITDA of $540 million to $580 million and CAFD of $190 million to $220 million reflect calendar year 2016 expectations for the portfolio at year-end December 31 2015.
The December 31 2016 run rate expectations for adjusted EBITDA of $640 million to $760 million and CAFD of $210 million to $290 million reflect calendar year 2017 expectations for the forecasted portfolio at year-end December 31 2016.
These expectations are subject to our normal caveats in our net of expected IDR fees as we expect these fees to be treated as an operating expense.
With that I will turn the call over to Jim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks John and good morning everyone.
It's been a very strong first three quarters.
At both NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners we've executed well both financially and operationally and we've had strong execution of our growth plans all across the board.
At FPL the team continues to make excellent progress against our core strategy of investing to further improve our customer value proposition.
FPL has typical residential bills 30% below the national average one of the cleanest emission profiles in America and was recently recognized as the most reliable electric utility in the nation.
As we prepare to file a rate case at FPL in 2016 I've never felt better about the quality of FPL's customer value proposition.
Ultimately as I've said before our goal at FPL is nothing less than to be the cleanest lowest-cost and most reliable utility in the nation and we're well on our way to achieving that.
At Energy Resources we've made terrific progress against our core strategy of being the world's largest generator of wind and solar energy.
The fundamentals of the renewable business have never been stronger and Energy Resources continues to build what I believe is the largest and highest-quality renewables development pipeline in the space.
John mentioned that Energy Resources now expects to exceed the high end of its range for 2015 to 2016 U.S.
wind development that we shared with you in March.
Based on the future demand we expect from the EPA's Clean Power Plan and the potential extension of the PTC we now see opportunities to increase even further the scale of our wind and solar development capabilities in order to seize an even larger share of the growing North American renewable market.
We are significantly increasing our internal resource commitment to renewables development and we expect to as much as double the development resources committed to these activities over the next few years.
I'm also very pleased with our natural gas pipeline and competitive transmission development efforts.
Total expected capital deployment in our pipeline business including pipelines underdevelopment and recent acquisitions is now approaching $5 billion.
In our competitive transmission business we expect to invest more than $1 billion by the end of the decade.
Although competition is fierce for both of these businesses customers value our development capabilities our engineering construction expertise and our stakeholder relationships across North America.
As with renewable energy we expect the markets for new pipelines and new transmission will continue to grow driven in part by the emissions targets under the Clean Power Plan.
As with renewable energy we believe NextEra Energy is well-positioned to capitalize on these new opportunities.
Across the board NextEra Energy is ahead of the goals we shared with you in March.
Our announcement last quarter of increased earnings per share and dividends per share expectations for NextEra Energy was a reflection of this performance and we're well-positioned to achieve these expectations.
Notwithstanding recent volatility in capital markets we continue to have confidence that the yieldco model can work and work well for a partnership like NEP that has the right structure and the support of a world class sponsor like Energy Resources giving it access to the largest and strongest portfolio of potential future acquisition opportunities.
While we need to position ourselves to work through a period of potential uncertainty and settling out which we have done with our modified 2015 financing plan now successfully executed in the long run we think the capital markets' reevaluation of the yieldco space can play to our competitive advantage both at NEP and at Energy Resources.
Times of challenge are often also times of opportunity.
I continue to believe that the NEP value proposition is the best in the space.
NEP offers investors average annual growth expectations and LP unit distributions of 12% to 15% through the end of the decade.
NEP's existing cash flows are backed by long-term contracts which at the end of the third quarter had an average contract life of approximately 19 years and strong counterparty credits.
NEP also has a portfolio that is largely insulated from commodity risk and a well-aligned incentive structure with the sponsor owning incentive distribution rights in a significant limited partnership position in the vehicle.
We're also pursuing several options to minimize NEP's need for significant amounts of public equity through 2016 to ensure that we have plenty of time for markets to settle down.
We continue to evaluate the optimal capital structure for NEP as it has some additional debt capacity that can help finance future transactions being mindful of course that we don't want to over-lever the vehicle.
And of course in the long run in order for NEP to serve its intended purpose we need to be able to access the equity markets at reasonable prices.
We plan to issue a modest amount of NEP public equity to finance the growth included in our December 31 2016 annual run rate.
However we will be smart flexible and opportunistic as to how and when we access the equity markets.
And to that end I'm pleased to announce that the board of directors of our general partner has approved putting in place an up to $150 million at-the-market equity issuance or dribble program.
At the same time NextEra Energy has also authorized a program to purchase from time to time based on market conditions and other considerations up to $150 million of NEP's outstanding common units.
The ATM program gives the partnership the flexibility to issue new units when the price supports new unit issuance while the unit purchase program gives NextEra Energy the ability to demonstrate its commitment to the partnership by purchasing units at times when they're undervalued.
We will be patient with NEP and have taken the necessary steps to provide plenty of time for recovery of the equity markets.
We remain optimistic that the NEP financing model can and will work going forward.
In summary I am as enthusiastic as ever about our future prospects.
FPL Energy Resources and NEP all have an outstanding set of opportunities across the board and we continue to execute well against all of our strategic and growth initiatives.
FPL continues to have an excellent story with a growing service territory and a strong customer value offering while Energy Resources is strategically positioned to capitalize on what is expected to be one of the best environments for renewables development in recent memory.
Overall we are well-positioned to leverage these great businesses to continue to build growth platforms to drive our growth in the future.
With that we'll now open the lines for questions.
We'll take our first question from Dan Eggers.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
I guess just kind of the first question Jim following up on a couple of things you made comments on today  the doubling of development resources into renewables is a lot given where your baseline is already.
Are you talking about operating expenses to try and find more projects or are you thinking about the idea of actually doubling the amount of renewables you're doing on an annual basis? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Dan we would expect that for an increase in development expenses that we would get a pro-rata increase in the amount of megawatts that we will be able to develop.
And so I said up to double; we're going to be obviously smart and opportunistic about it.
I think all of the things that we've said about the renewable markets  the economics are getting better; the Clean Power Plan is coming; there continues to be good federal support and the potential extension of the wind production tax credit.
And frankly the chaos in the yieldco space creates an opportunity for us with some of our competitors not being as well-positioned as they were four months ago for us to be able to continue to gain share in a market  you know last year we gained share in the wind business.
We were the number one player  we've been the number one player for many many years and last year we gained share.
And that's  my goal for the team is to continue to build to gain share and to build profitable projects that make sense for our shareholders and for our customers.
So I guess maybe extending that conversation when you talk about the targets for NEP's CAFD run rate for next year does the $150 million dribble equity is that enough to get you within that band or is there an assumption that NEE is going to put more equity capital into NEP to help get into that guidance range? Dan this is John.
We need a minimal amount of equity for NEP next year.
Obviously the ATM dribble program would be a good start to be able to build on an equity position heading into what our growth plans are for next year.
But we have a lot of levers around NEP as well.
You've seen the guidance so we have some flexibility around the capital structure.
But the ATM program would allow us to get off to a start on what we see as a minimal equity need for NEP next year.
And you guys feel good about hitting the increased growth rates from last year even if NEP's at the lower end of their growth range or the equity capital markets are still stayed tight for them? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We do.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Our next question is from Stephen Byrd.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Stephen.
I wanted to at a high level talk about usage of your balance sheet.
You've positioned the company with quite strong credit stats and at the high end of the range for many of your ratings targets.
When you think about opportunities to deploy that balance sheet at the corporate level we saw just very recently a big utility buy a small LDC so there are corporate opportunities versus M&amp;A for assets versus more organic growth and obviously it sounds like you're very bullish on more organic growth at Resources.
But at a high level when you think about all of the opportunities for deploying your balance sheet what do you think is likely to create the most economic value for shareholders? Well one there have been a couple of deals that have gone off at pretty high multiples and leverage has been used to finance those transactions.
From our standpoint having a strong balance sheet is key to reaching our growth objectives and we have no intention of compromising our current credit metrics.
That being said there are opportunities perhaps to optimize our existing balance sheet and so we always look at particularly projects that may not have debt financing on them and other opportunities within the portfolio where we could optimize our current position without compromising our credit metrics.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Steven this is Jim just to add to what John said.
I think to use your balance sheet to lever up to acquire assets at massive premiums and transfer much of the value from that leveraging up over to someone else's shareholders I have a hard time  I scratch my head honestly and I have a hard time understanding how that makes sense for the acquirer's shareholders.
And so that's not something that we would be running up and down jumping up and down in terms of trying to do something like that.
The other thing from an acquisition standpoint that I would say just overall from an M&amp;A standpoint I would say is we have great organic growth prospects.
I feel really good about our organic growth prospects.
We do not have to do anything other than execute on our organic growth prospects to deliver the expectations that we've laid out to you here and anything that we would ever do on M&amp;A would have to be accretive to what we're telling you in terms of our expectations going forward.
Very much understood.
That's very very helpful.
When you think about wind growth potential obviously we may not know the PTC outcome till very late in the year.
In your dialogue with states and utilities that may go out and procure more wind how should we likely see this unfold? Is this likely to involve very quick action by states and utilities to start to  I'm assuming that the PTC does get extended  do you think it's going to be a fairly rapid movement by states to try to take advantage of the PTC just given that it's always uncertain how long subsidies do last or do you think it's more of a gradual evolution throughout 2016 and 2017? How should we think about how this might actually unfold? Jr.
- President &amp; Chief Executive Officer NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Stephen it's Armando.
I think the first thing let me just talk about what we're seeing right now.
What we're seeing right now is really a significant amount of interest in the wind space to get projects signed up for next year.
Some of the customers that we're signing up are very clearly telling us that they don't necessarily know where the Clean Power Plan is going to end up but they are taking steps today in order to address what they see as potential issues that they have under the Clean Power Plan.
Others are telling us that look we would like to take advantage now while the PTC is here because with the PTC the prices that are being offered in the market are very economic to us on a very long-term basis.
When we are having discussions with customers about 2017 and 2018 there is obviously some concern as to whether the production tax credit gets extended or not in the near term.
But what's encouraging is that once you kind of get past that it looks like that wind has a lot of opportunities I would say through 2020 at least whether it's early action credits under the Clean Power Plan or whether it's with or without PTCs what customers are seeing as a trend to go more renewables is very positive for us.
So I'd say where we sit on wind 2017 and 2018 I would expect on a combined basis to be pretty good for us.
That's great.
Thank you very much.
And we'll take our next question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Julien.
So let me actually start by following up on the last question a little bit.
When it comes to CPP I'd be curious you have this dynamic around 2020 to 2021 of early action.
To what extent is that creating kind of another boom/bust in the cycle? Obviously you got a PTC extension here but are folks holding off to get projects qualifying for their early action program? Jr.
- President &amp; Chief Executive Officer NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Yeah Julien it's Armando again.
Just to follow up on what I said before in the near-term here there is obviously some discussion with our customers about the Clean Power Plan and they're taking advantage because they don't know whether the Clean Power Plan is going to work out but they see that it's a huge benefit while there is a production tax credit to sign up cheaper wind.
The 2017 and 2018 discussions that we've been having on wind  a lot of folks are obviously concerned about whether there's going to a production tax credit or not but in my view whether there is a production tax credit or not the combined 2017 and 2018 years I think will be pretty good for us.
If there is no production tax credit my expectation would be that the amount of wind that you see get built in 2017 would be below what we would otherwise have seen and what we have seen in the last couple of years but I think that's only a temporary blip before 2018 starts coming back.
The economics for wind and honestly the economics for solar from the customer standpoint are very attractive today with the PTC and with the ITC for solar.
They're very attractive without the 30% ITC when you get out to the 2018 2019 timeframe and we believe that for wind they will be very attractive even without the PTC by the end of the decade.
So customers are aware of that.
There is obviously some uncertainty about the Clean Power Plan but I think that uncertainty is actually playing in our favor.
People want to take action early.
Great.
Two further quick clarifications.
Your credit expectations here for S&amp;P and Moody's what are your expectations for financing in 2016 here? You obviously are well within the range on both.
Just to be very clear about this? Yeah Julien for financing activity in 2016 we continue to evaluate where we are from a CapEx standpoint.
We still have another quarter of wind origination to go.
We've had strong cash flow growth as well.
We've got some other levers within the portfolio that we're looking at a couple of balance sheet optimization opportunities.
Kind of a long way of saying that we're still working on framing up exactly what that's going to look like.
But....
Perhaps to be more specific the projections of 26% for instance for SMP that does not contemplate incremental equity or just I know it's a moving target given the size of the CapEx budget but...
Yeah.
We don't know yet.
There are factors at play again having the strong quarter of origination on wind at 725 megawatts looking to see how we come in on the fourth quarter looking to see how we finish up from a cash flow perspective and then looking at 2016 what the CapEx need might be and then looking at the other levers within the existing portfolio and some of the optimization things that are on our list.
Obviously the goal is to keep any equity issuance down as low as possible if we have to do something.
And last quick one.
Where do you stand on merchant divestment specifically Texas.
Just curious what your thoughts are broadly about it because you seem to have commodity sensitivity be it from wind projects or combined cycles in Texas.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so Julien I'll start out with the general comment that you guys will ho-hum to.
But I mean it's true.
I mean we look at that portfolio our entire merchant portfolio every year and try to determine whether it still makes sense for us from a shareholder perspective to retain those merchant assets based on our view which is not necessarily the market view based on our view of what we think those markets are.
We're going through a process in Texas on Lamar and Forney.
I warn folks all the time we've gone through processes before on our merchant assets.
And that doesn't necessarily mean at the end of the day that we divest those assets.
We sometimes go through the process and we retain those assets but we believe that there may be folks that are very interested in those assets; they've been great assets for us.
We believe that there might be a shareholder base or other bases out there that believe those assets are worth more to them than they would be to our shareholders.
So we're going to take it look at that very seriously here over the next couple of months.
And if we decide that it make sense then we will likely make the decision to divest.
But those should not be the  I know there has been a focus on those assets; those should not be the only assets that investors and analysts believe that we're looking at.
I mean we look at all of our assets every year and determine whether it makes sense for us to continue to hold them.
Those are just honestly the ones that are public at this point.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steve Fleishman.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
Just on the  curious kind of the latest updates on the gas reserve additions in Florida and just with the environment continuing to maybe get more attractive to buy reserves how you're thinking about that potential? Florida Power &amp; Light Company</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi Steve this is Eric Silagy.
So we are  you know with gas prices coming down we'll see how the market plays out but we think there's going to be opportunities.
We're going to be very judicious in how we approach this and making sure that we're locking in long-term positive deals for customers.
So we have a program that's underway right now at  in one play in Oklahoma and that's going well.
And we've got origination teams that are talking to multiple counterparties on opportunities.
So I think we'll see how everything plays out in the market from a gas perspective but right now we see this as presenting actually some potential opportunities.
Okay.
And then separate question.
Just on NEP maybe Jim is there any way to give some color on your intentions with this buyback in terms of just you know is this something where you'd want to be in right now doing; is this something that's kind of there if there's another kind of attack on yieldco so to speak or just how should we think about the buyback? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I think I probably should limit what I said to what I said in my remarks Steve but I am certainly not going to lay out prices at which we're buying or the prices at which we're interested in doing the ATM.
You know that's  part of the thinking behind this is to give us the flexibility to issue units when we think the price supports new issuance and the buyback gives us the opportunity to show our commitment to the partnership by buying units when we think they're undervalued and...
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it's as simple as that honestly.
So it's kind of a buy low sell high  kind of a new concept.
Okay.
Makes sense.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You said it not me Steve.
And then lastly just could you maybe give us any color or latest thoughts on the Hawaiian Electric deal? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
So we continue to work hard to get the final hurdle which is state regulatory approval in Hawaii.
We have recently gotten a couple intervenors to either fall away or announce their support and I was very pleased that the IBEW announced their support for the transaction last week.
And we continue to work it.
I think my expectation based on timing right now is that we're not going to get any kind of decision from the PSC until next year and so we're going to continue to work it and continue to talk to the parties to try to get it across the finish line.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Paul Ridzon.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> One of the drivers you discussed on the reduction in years earnings was a drop-off of state tax incentives.
How does that unfold over the next several quarters? And was that just a concentration risk of your adding some assets in a particular region? Yeah.
A couple things there Paul.
One was just pushing part of a CITC project out into the next year.
And then the second was when you look back at our Q3 results for 2014 I think we had about 500 megawatts of projects that we had built in Oklahoma.
Only had about 100 megawatts this quarter and so you know Oklahoma has that state ITC so it was really a combination of those two factors.
Inc.</span></strong> And then at FP&amp;L it looks as though we're actually seeing some modest demand destruction.
As you think about your rate case I mean decoupling  is that on the table? Or maybe an annual look for a true-up and how are you thinking about that strategically? Florida Power &amp; Light Company</span></strong> Yeah Paul this is Eric Silagy.
No we're not looking at any decoupling.
Again I think you go look overall at both our performance as well as the fact that the state continues to grow we feel very good about our prospects going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Is that something you'll try to put into your regulatory strategy? Florida Power &amp; Light Company</span></strong> How we look at moving forward  our base  our rates are set on a projection of test year.
And so it will take into account that we have strong customer growth coming in as well as more modest growth from the standpoint of usage or potentially negative usage.
So both of those factors get factored into looking at what our revenue requirements are.
Inc.</span></strong> And then lastly there was a large swing at corporate  was that just a timing issue or could you delve a little bit deeper into what drove that? Yeah.
Some of that as we mentioned in  or I mentioned in the script was the consolidating tax adjustment and with PMI or the customer supply and trading business having a good year the apportionment factors that are used by many states are revenue based and so that can kind of skew results in the more favorable tax jurisdictions and that's really one of the main drivers there.
Inc.</span></strong> So none of these is a marked shift and look for improvement going forward? That's something that's really dependent on the business mix and kind of where our revenues are coming from what states.
So it's not something you can necessarily count on quarter to quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for your help.
We'll take our next question from Jonathan Arnold.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jonathan.
Inc.</span></strong> Quick one.
So Jim you mentioned a couple of times I think you called it chaos in the yieldco space and I think you stressed that you see that helping you from a competitive positioning standpoint in the development business.
My question I guess is do you see some M&amp;A opportunities falling out of that situation? Or is that really less your focus here; it's more about winning new projects yourself? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Jonathan we have always felt that organic development creates more value than project acquisitions do or frankly even overall company acquisitions unless it's a pretty unique situation.
So our focus is going to be on organic growth.
We have always had project acquisitions as a part of our mix and we will continue  I do think there will be some opportunities here.
I think there's a real question about whether folks are going to realize that when they're selling projects that they're not going to get the same kind of value that they perhaps would have gotten four months ago and there is also  we're very picky about the quality of the project when we're looking at it from a project acquisition standpoint.
So I would expect there to be more opportunities there than there would have been a few months ago but honestly our focus is really on  and I think the most high-value added opportunity for our shareholders is to be focused on growing our organic capabilities.
Inc.</span></strong> It sounds like priorities are organic then possibly projects and last on the list sort of whole portfolio company type things? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's a fair prioritization Jon.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then just one other thing on Canadian Wind; anything to report on the recent Ontario RFP? And if you  what are your  line of sight on some success there and when would we hear about it in the backlog? Jr.
- President &amp; Chief Executive Officer NextEra Energy Resources LLC</span></strong> Jonathan it's Armando.
I think the first  realistically the first that we would hear about it would be very late this year.
I  and that's the very earliest.
My expectations are actually that we would hear some time first quarter of next year.
We feel good about the bids that we put in.
I always want to put things in context though right I mean Canada or Ontario was looking for roughly I think it's 500 megawatts or 600 megawatts in total of renewables right.
So I mean we wouldn't think that it  nobody should think it's a 5 000-megawatt bid or something.
I mean it's still reasonable; it's still chunky but it was 500 megawatts.
We have several projects that we think are very competitive in the process the way it's laid out.
And so we're hopeful that we're going to get some of that 500 megawatts or 600 megawatts.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you Armando.
Our next question is from Michael Lapides.
Your line is open.
Hey Jim coming back to M&amp;A a little bit but maybe a different angle.
How are you looking at  you've grown your midstream business meaning you've got Mountain Valley and Sabal Trail in the development process.
You did the NET Midstream deal down at NEP.
How has the share price reaction in the midstream market and valuations for privately held midstream assets  how has that impacted the opportunity set that may be available for either NEE or NEP to add via M&amp;A more midstream and how do you think about how you would structure that whether you would want it up at the NEE level or down at the NEP level? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Michael I think when I think about what we're doing in the pipeline space it's really focused on very long-term contracted pipeline assets.
And things that we think look a lot like our renewable business in terms of the quality of the counterparty the consistency of the cash flows and the ability for us to deploy our development expertise against those things.
And so we have no interest in adding any midstream assets that would have any kind of commodity risk to the portfolio.
We would be focused again first and foremost on organic development of long-term contracted pipeline opportunities and that's really what the team is focused on.
I think the NET deal was a very unique deal in that it was a very long-term contracted set of assets.
There are very few of those really out in the marketplace.
If there was one that will become available we would look at it.
And I think honestly it would depend on the capital markets and where we think the most efficient financing would be where we would put it whether we would put it at NEE or NEP but just again our focus there in the pipeline space is first and foremost on organic development.
Got it.
Thanks Jim.
Much appreciated.
Our next question is with Brian Chin.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
I think when you guys talked about others using the balance sheets and levering up to buy other companies and then you put that in the context of buying shares of NEP and continuing to execute on your wind resources and your regulated opportunities I mean you guys have made a pretty strong and consistent statement about where you think your capital deployment ought to be.
I guess within that context what I'm curious about is how close are you with regards to looking at NEP versus say NextEra shares as a good place to deploy capital and execute on buybacks.
Can you give us a little bit of color of how you frame it and are the two relatively close in your opinion? I mean obviously you think NEP is the more interesting place at the moment.
But can you give us a sense of how you frame that discussion and under what conditions you might consider deploying capital towards NEE buybacks as opposed to NEP? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I said this last month I think Brian that I  relative to NEE I think NEP is extremely undervalued right now.
So...
Any...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think our announcements today are pretty consistent with that.
And I agree.
But just any sense of color as to how you frame it Jim that would be great? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We look at a variety of metrics and kind of the classic metrics.
And we think about it in terms of  fundamentally in terms of future cash flows.
Okay.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners 2015 third quarter earnings conference call.
You may all now disconnect your lines.
Thank you and everyone have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Amanda Finnis please go ahead.
Thank you Zach.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our fourth quarter and full year 2015 combined earnings conference call for NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners.
With me this morning are Jim Robo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy; Moray Dewhurst Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy; Armando Pimentel President and Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy Resources; and Mark Hickson Senior Vice President of NextEra Energy all of whom are also officers of NextEra Energy Partners; as well as Eric Silagy President and Chief Executive Officer of Florida Power &amp; Light Company; and John Ketchum Senior Vice President of NextEra Energy.
John will provide an overview of our results and our executive team will then be available to answer your questions.
We will be making forward-looking statements during this call based on current expectations and assumptions which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements if any of our key assumptions are incorrect or because of other factors discussed in today's earnings news release in the comments made during this conference call in the risk factor section of the accompanying presentation or in our latest reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission each of which can be found on our websites www.nexteraenergy.com and www.nexteraenergypartners.com.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Today's presentation also includes references to non-GAAP financial measures.
You should refer to the information contained in the slides accompanying today's presentation for definitional information and reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to the closest GAAP financial measure.
With that I will turn the call over to John.
Thank you Amanda and good morning everyone.
Both NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners enjoyed strong fourth quarters and ended 2015 with excellent results.
NextEra Energy achieved full year adjusted earnings per share of $5.71 which was a penny higher than the upper end of the range we discussed going into the year and up 8% from 2014.
We also experienced double digit growth in operating cash flow and continue to maintain our strong financial position and credit profile.
NextEra Energy Partners successfully executed the acceleration of its growth plan despite the challenges of difficult capital market conditions in the second half of the year and grew its fourth quarter distribution per unit by 58% versus the comparable prior year quarter with a distribution of $0.3075 or a $1.23 on an annualized basis.
Before taking you through the detailed result let me begin by summarizing some additional highlights.
At Florida Power and Light we continue to invest in the business in 2015 with a focus on delivering value to customers.
And all of our major capital initiatives remain on track.
Since the last call we received Florida PSE approval of the 2019 need for a planned Okeechobee Clean Energy Center.
We expect this project to further advance our focus on providing clean reliable and cost effective energy for our customers consistent with our long term strategy.
We continue to work hard at FPL to further enhance what we consider to be an already outstanding customer value proposition.
Our customers enjoy electric service that is cleaner and more reliable than ever before while our typical residential customer bill is the lowest among reporting utilities in the state of Florida and is approximately 14% lower than it was a decade ago.
Despite a challenging summer lightning season FPL delivered its best ever full year period of service reliability in 2015 and was recognized as being the most reliable electric utility in the nation.
This was accomplished as we continued to invest to make the grids stronger smarter and more responsive and resilient to outage conditions.
Our performance is the direct result of our focus on operational cost effectiveness productivity and the long term investments weve made to improve the quality reliability and efficiency of everything we do.
And 2015 was an excellent period of execution by the FPL team.
At Energy Resources 2015 was an outstanding period of performance for our contracted renewables development program.
New renewables project additions drove financial results while origination results for new projects to be placed into service by the end of 2016 exceeded the expectations that we discussed at our March Investor Conference.
The longer term outlook beyond 2016 also continued to develop favorably.
The team signed contracts for a total of approximately 2 100 megawatts of new renewables projects over the last year making this our second best year ever for renewables origination performance.
We continue to believe that Energy Resources is well positioned to capitalize on one of the best environments for renewables development in our recent history.
We now have greater certainty regarding federal tax incentives for renewables as Congress took action in December to extend the 2014 wind PTC and the 2016 solar ITC programs over a five year phase down period.
We expect that the IRS will provide starter construction guidance with the two year Safe Harbor period for wind and solar similar in form to what was put in place for the 2014 PTC.
The certainty regarding tax incentives will provide planning stability which we think in turn will serve as a bridge to further equipment cost decline and efficiency improvements that will enable renewables to compete on a levelized cost of energy basis with combined cycle technology when tax incentives are phased down.
In the meantime with tax incentives both wind and solar will be very competitive and in addition to the favorable impact of tax policy we expect the carbon reduction requirements under the EPA's clean power plan to significantly drive demand for new renewables as we move into the next decade.
Finally we expect low natural gas prices to continue to force coal-to-gas and coal-to-renewables switching with new renewables supported by the factors I just mentioned.
Driven in large part by our enthusiasm about our renewables growth prospects in the middle of last year we increased our expectation for NextEra Energy's compound annual growth rate and adjusted earnings per share to 6% to 8% through 2018 off a 2014 base.
These increased expectations will in turn affect our capital expenditure plans for renewables development program which we will update on the first quarter earnings call in April.
Across the portfolio both Energy Resources and FPL continue to deliver excellent operating performance.
The fossil nuclear and renewables generation fleets had one of their best periods ever with E4 or the equivalent forced outage rate at less than 1.5% for the full year.
Similar to NextEra Energy NEP also delivered on all of its financial expectations NEP grew its portfolio through the acquisition of economic interest in over 1 000 megawatts of contracted renewables projects from Energy Resources with total ownership increasing by over 1 200 megawatts and established its presence in the long term contracted natural gas pipeline space with the acquisition of seven natural gas pipelines in Texas.
This acquisition is expected to reduce the impact resource variability as in the portfolio and extend NEP's runway of potential dropdown assets.
All of the same factors that favor growth in new renewables for Energy Resources likewise should benefit NEP.
The strong renewables origination performance at Energy Resources continues to expand the pipeline of generating and other assets potentially available for sale to NextEra Energy Partners now and in the future.
In contrast to many other U-cos [ph] NEP does not have the same dependence on third party acquisitions to grow but rather can reasonable expect to acquire projects that have been organically developed by its best in class sponsor.
We continue to believe that the strength of its sponsor and the ability to demonstrate a strong and highly visible runway for future growth is a core strength of the NEP value proposition which is but one of many factors that distinguish it from other U-cos.
As we head into 2016 both NextEra Energy and NEP remain well positioned to deliver on their financial expectations subject to the usual drivers of variability including in particular renewable resource variability.
FPL benefits from a surplus amortization balance of $263 million which is expected to position it to earn at the upper half of its ROE range while it continues to execute on its capital investment initiatives for the benefit of customers.
In addition the rate case will obviously be a core focus area for FPL in 2016.
At Energy Resources the business plan is built around the contribution from new investments and executing on the development and construction of roughly 2 500 megawatts of new renewables scheduled to go commercial by the end of the year.
Meanwhile NEP entered 2016 with a solid run rate and the flexibility necessary to execute its growth plans.
In summary we are very optimistic about our prospects for another strong year.
Now let's look at our results for the fourth quarter and full year.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 FPL reported net income of $365 million or $0.79 per share up $0.14 per share year-over-year.
For the full year 2015 FPL reported net income of $1.6 billion or $3.63 per share up $0.18 per share versus 2014.
Regulatory capital employed grew 6.8% for 2015 which translated to net income growth of 8.6% for the full year with fourth quarter performance leading in the way.
Regulatory capital employed continued to growth through the year.
In additionally to being the first full quarters since the closing of the Cedar Bay transaction in September fourth quarter results were also impacted by timing effect and a number of smaller items including outstanding performance under our asset optimization program.
As a reminder FPL's current rate agreement provides an incentive mechanism for sharing with customers gains that we achieve in excess of threshold amount for our gas and power optimization activities.
In 2014 these activities produced roughly $67 million of incremental value of this amount $54 million was for the benefit for Florida customers.
Under the sharing mechanism which only applies once customer saving exceed $46 million FPL was permitted to record approximately $13 million of pre-tax income in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Consistent with the expectations that we shared with you previously our reported ROE for regulatory purposes will be approximately 11.5% for the 12 months ended December 2015.
As a reminder under the current rate agreement we record reserve amortization entries to achieve a predetermined regulatory ROE for each trailing 12-month period.
During the fourth quarter aided by the impact of usually warm weather we utilized only $67 million of reserve amortization.
This brings our accumulative utilization of reserve amortization since 2013 to $107 million leaving us a balance of $263 million which can be utilized in 2016.
In 2016 we expect to use the balance of the reserve amortization to offset growing revenue requirements due to increased investments.
We expect to reserve amortization balance along with our current sales CapEx and O&amp;M expectations to support regulatory ROE in the upper half of the allowed band of 9.5% to 11.5% in 2016.
As always our expectations assume among other things normal weather and operating conditions.
Fourth quarter retail sales increased 11.7% from the prior year comparable period and we estimate that approximately 9.6% of this amount can be attributed to weather-related usage for customer.
On weather normalized basis fourth quarter sales increased 2.1% comprised of continued customer growth of approximately 1.4% and increased weather normalize usage per customer of approximately 0.7%.
As a reminder our estimates of weather normalized usage per customer are subject to greater uncertainty and periods with relatively strong weather comparisons like we have seen throughout 2015.
For the full year 2015 retail sales increased 5.6% compared to 2014.
After adjusted for the effects of weather full year 2015 retail sales increased 1.2% weather normalized underlying usage for the year decreased 0.3% and looking ahead we continue to expect year-over-year weather normalized usage per customer to be between flat and negative 0.5% per year.
The economy in Florida continues to grow on a healthy rate with strong jobs growth reflected in consistently low rates of seasonally adjusted unemployment around levels last seen in early 2008.
And over a 1 million jobs have been added from the low in December 2009 though the pace of jobs growth is beginning to slow.
Leading indicators in the real estate sector continue to reflect the strong Florida housing market and the December rating of Florida's consumer sentiment remained close to post-recession highs.
Let me now turn to Energy Resources beginning with the reporting change.
We have reevaluated our operating segments and made a change to reflect the overall scale of our natural gas pipeline investments and the management of these projects within our gas infrastructure activities at Energy Resources.
As you may recall our upstream gas infrastructure activities has not only better informed our hedging decisions but have also led the opportunities in gas reserves to benefit Florida customers and the acquisition development and construction of natural gas pipelines.
Our reporting for energy resources now includes the results of our natural gas pipeline projects formally reported in the corporate and other segment while our 2014 results have been adjusted accordingly for comparison purposes the effects are minimal due to the prior immaterial contribution from these projects during early stages of development.
Contributions from the Texas pipelines acquired by NEP in October are also included in the Energy Resources results for 2015.
Energy Resources reported fourth quarter 2015 GAAP earnings of $156 million or $0.34 per share.
Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter were $185 million or $0.40 per share.
Energy Resources contribution to adjusted earnings per share in the fourth quarter was flat against the prior year comparable period which primarily reflects the contributions from new investments being offset by higher corporate G&amp;A and interest expenses.
For the full year 2015 Energy Resources reported GAAP earnings of $1.1 billion or $2.41 per share.
Adjusted earnings were $926 million or $2.04 per share.
Energy Resources full year adjusted EPS increased $0.14 per share despite a significant headwind associated with poor wind resource versus 2014 which was largely offset by strong results in our customer supply and trading business.
These improved customer supply and trading results reflect in-part a returns in more normal levels of profitability in the first quarter following the adverse effects of the polar vortex conditions in 2014.
While wind resource was approximately 96% of the long-term average in 2015 other factors including and particular icing in the fourth quarter and other production losses reduced production by another 2%.
New investments added $0.31 per share consistent with a reported change that I've just mentioned this includes $0.04 per share of contributions from our gas pipeline projects reflecting the addition of the Texas pipeline acquired by NEP to the portfolio as well as continued development work on the Florida pipelines in Mountain Valley project.
New renewable investments added $0.27 per share reflecting continued strong growth in our portfolio of contracted wind and solar projects.
In 2015 alone we commissioned approximately 1 200 megawatts of new wind projects and approximately 285 megawatts of new solar projects.
Contributions from our upstream gas infrastructure activities which declined by $0.02 per share were negatively impacted by increased depreciation expense as a result of higher depletion rates.
Based on market conditions we elected not to invest capital and drilling certain wells which resulted in our earlier recognition of income through the value of the hedges we had in place although this helped mitigate other negative effects in 2015 including higher depletion rates below commodity price environment presents a challenge for these activities going forward.
Partially offsetting the growth in the business was a negative impact of $0.22 per share reflecting higher interest in corporate expenses including increased development activity in light of what we consider to be a very positive landscape for the renewable business.
Results also were impacted by negative $0.06 per share of share dilution while benefiting from the absence of charges associated with the 2014 launch of NEP.
Additional details for our results are shown on the accompanying slide.
Energy Resources full year adjusted EBITDA increased approximately 9% cash flow from operations excluding the impact of working capital increased approximately 14%.
As we did last year we have included a summary in the appendix of the presentation that compares Energy Resources adjusted EBITDA by asset category to the ranges we provided in the third quarter of 2014.
As I mentioned earlier 2015 was an outstanding period of performance for new wind and solar origination since our last earnings call we have signed contracts for an additional 206 megawatts of wind projects for 2015 delivery.
With these additions we have exceeded the expectations we shared at our March 2015 Investor Conference for our 2015 to 2016 development program.
The accompanying chart updates information on each of our programs now stand.
We have also signed contracts in California and Ontario for storage projects to enter service in the next couple of years.
Although it is early in the technology life cycle we are successfully originating source projects that support our expectations to invest up to $100 million per year in order to maintain our competitive position with regard to this important emerging technology.
For all the reasons I've mentioned earlier we continue to believe that the fundamental outlook for our renewable business has never been stronger and we are working on an update to our capital expenditure expectations for our 2017 to 2018 development program.
It is important to keep in mind that because these projects drive growth upon entering commercial operation the greatest potential benefits are to 2019 and beyond.
For 2016 we believe that our development program is largely complete other than one or two additional opportunities that we're pursuing.
Turning now to the development activities for our natural gas pipeline projects that are now reported in the Energy Resources segment.
The Florida pipelines remain on track and we expect to be in a position to receive FERC approval early this year to support construction beginning the mid-2016 and an expected in-service state in mid-2017.
As a reminder NextEra Energy's investments in Sabal Trail Transmission and Florida Southeast Connection are expected to be approximately $1 billion and $550 million respectively.
And FPL is the anchor shipper on both pipelines.
The Mountain Valley's pipeline has continued to progress through the FERC process than filed its formal application in October 2015.
We continue to see market interest in the pipeline and we'll pleased to announce earlier this month the addition of Consolidated Edison as a shipper on the line as well as the addition of Con Edison Gas Midstream as a partner.
We continue to expect approximately 2 bcf per day 20 year firm capacity commitment to achieve commercial operations by year-end 2018.
With the addition of Con Edison our ownership share in this project now stands at approximately 31% and our expected investment is roughly $1 billion.
Let me now review the highlights for NEP.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was approximately $135 million and cash available for distribution was $75 million.
During the quarter the assets in the NEP portfolio operated well overall renewable resource was generally in line with our long-term expectations and the acquisitions of the Texas pipeline in Jericho were far more completed as planned.
Overall 2015 was a successful year of execution against our growth objectives consistent with our decision to accelerate the growth of NEP the portfolio grew throughout the year to support our fourth quarter distribution of $0.3075 per common unit or $1.23 per common unit on an annualized basis up 58% against the 2014 comparable fourth quarter distribution.
Also consistent with the range of expectations that we have shared full year adjusted EBITDA was approximately $404 million and cash available for distribution was $126 million.
Clearly 2015 had its challenges as well changes in market conditions not only affected our financing plan in 2015 but also led us to pursue additional options to be more flexible and opportunistic as to how and when we access the equity markets going forward.
On the last call we announced an after-market equity issuance or dribble program for up to $150 million at NEP.
At the same time NextEra Energy also announced a program to purchase from time to time based on market conditions and other considerations up to $150 million of NEP's outstanding common units.
During the quarter NEP completed the sale of over 887 000 common units raising approximately $26 million under the ATM program.
Turning now to the consolidated results for NextEra Energy for the fourth quarter of 2015 GAAP net income attributable to NextEra Energy was $507 million or a $1.10 per share.
NextEra Energy's 2015 fourth quarter adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS were $530 million and a $1.17 per share respectively.
For the full year of 2015 GAAP net income attributable to NextEra Energy was $2.8 billion or $6.06 per share.
Adjusted earnings were roughly $2.6 billion or $5.71 per share.
Our earnings per share results for the year account for dilution associated with the settlement of our forward agreement of 6.6 million shares that occurred in December of 2014 and the June and September settlements totaling approximately 16 million shares associated with the equity units issued in 2012.
The impact of dilution on full year results was approximately $0.17 per share.
The issuance of additional shares is consistent both with our strategy of maintaining a strong financial position and with our ability to grow adjusted EPS at 6% to 8% per year over a multiyear period.
Adjusted earnings from the corporate and other segments increased $0.09 per share compared to 2014 primarily due to investment gains and the absence of debt returning to losses incurred in 2014.
NextEra Energy's operating cash flow adjusted for the potential impacts of certain FPL clause recoveries and the Cedar Bay acquisition grew by 16% in 2015 and as expected we maintained our strong credit position which remains an important competitive advantage in a capital intensive industry.
At FPL we will continue to focus on excellent execution and delivering outstanding value to our customers.
In addition the right case we're seeing will be a core area focus that is likely to occupy much of 2016 and I will discuss this more in just a moment.
With regard to delivering on our customer value proposition and executing on our major capital initiatives of FPL we will focus on completing our generation modernization project at Fort Everglades constructing our peaker upgrades at Lauderdale and Fort Myers and delivering the three new large scale solar projects and our other additional investments to maintain and upgrade our infrastructure.
At Energy Resources growth will continue to come primarily through the addition of new renewables and continued construction of our gas pipeline projects which we expect to more than offset PTC roll off of approximately $37 million.
We feel better than ever about the quality of our renewables development pipeline and as we said in the last call over the next few years we expect to as much as double the development resources committed to our wind and solar origination and development capabilities in order to seize an even larger share of a growing North American renewables market.
Headwinds could come from the potential impact of El Nino on wind resource in the first half of the year and current weak commodity price environment.
With regard to weak commodity prices we evaluated our generation portfolio for markets where we expect low prices for sustained periods of time.
As a result of that exercise we took steps at the end of last year to reduce approximately 40% of our merchant generation capacity by entering into a contract to sell our [indiscernible] natural gas fired generating assets located in ERCOT.
Once closed the sale is expected to be slightly accretive to our EPS and credit profile and will generate $450 million in net cash proceeds that will be recycled into a long term contract renewables business.
We remain well hedged through 2018 and will continue to evaluate our other merchant generating assets for potential capital recycling opportunities.
With regard to our upstream gas infrastructure business sustained weak commodity prices of course means fewer new drilling opportunities other things equal and we have reduced our expectations of future growth from this part of the portfolio.
When we elect to drill we hedge most of our expected gas and oil production for up to seven years.
In cases where we have elected not to drill we have as we did in the fourth quarter liquidated the hedges that were put in place which generally allows us to recover a portion of our original investment on those wells that we had planned to drill.
At the corporate level we don't expect our financing plan in 2016 to require equity and if there would be a need we would expect it to be modest.
Similar to previous years we will work to maintain a strong balance sheet with a flexible and opportunistic financing plan and a focus on capital recycling opportunities.
Also as I just mentioned we plan to evaluate capital recycling opportunities within our merchant generation portfolio as we continue to execute on our strategy to become more long-term contract in rate regulated.
Earlier this month we filed a test year letter with the Florida PEC to initiate a new rate proceeding for rates beginning in January 2017 following the expiration of our current settlement agreement.
FPL was finalized in base rate adjustment proposal that would cover the next four years through 2017 through 2020 while the details of the number are still being finalized.
We expect a proposal to include base rate adjustments of approximately $860 million started in January 2017 $265 million started in January 2018 and $200 million upon commission of the Okeechobee Clean Energy Center in mid-2019 with no base rate adjustment in 2020.
Based on these adjustments combined with current projections for fuel and other cost we believe that FPLs current typical bill for January 2016 will grow at about 2.8% roughly the expected rate of inflation through the end of 2020.
When thinking about the rate case there are four key points to keep in mind.
First we're proposing a four year rate plan which provides customers' a higher degree of predictability with regard to the future cost of electricity.
Second from the period 2014 through the end of 2017 FPL is planning to invest a total of nearly $16 billion with additional significant investment expected in 2018 and beyond to meet the growing needs of Floridas economy and continue delivering outstanding value for Florida customers by keeping reliability high and fuel and other cost flow while the benefits of building a stronger smarter grade and a cleaner more efficient generation fleet are passed along regularly to customers through higher service reliability and lower bill you must periodically seek recovery for these long-term investments supported by base rates.
Third you may recall that FPL is required to file the comprehensive depreciation study as part of the rate case the appreciation study to be filed with this rate case reflects the investment that FPL has made since the last study in 2009.
Based on the changing mix of assets and the recoverable life span the resulted impact of the study is roughly a $200 million increase in annual depreciation expense.
Fourth we expect to request a performance adder of 0.5% as part of FPLs allowed regulatory ROE compared with peer utilities in the southeast and coastal U.S.
FPL has the cleanest carbon emission rate the most cost efficient operations the highest reliability and the lowest customer bills.
But an allowed ROE midpoint is below the average of those pure utilities.
We believe that the proposal for a performance adder presents an opportunity to reflect FPLs current superior value proposition and encouraged continued strong performance.
The estimated impact of the three base rate adjustments phased in during the four year period would total of approximately $13 per month or $0.43 per day on the base portion of a typical residential bill.
FPL has worked hard to deliver service that is ranked amongst the cleanest and most reliable to the lowest cost and has made the decision to seek relief only after a thorough review of the financial projections.
Since 2001 FPLs investments in high efficiency natural gas synergy have saved customers more than $8 billion on fuel while preventing 95 million tons of carbon emissions.
In addition while the cost of many materials and products that the company must purchase in order to provide affordable reliable power have increased and the energy demand of Florida customers are growing with the projected addition of nearly 220 000 new service accounts during the period 2014 through the end of 2017 FPLs focused on efficiency and productivity that significantly lessened the bill impact.
Compared with the average utilities O&amp;M cost FPLs innovative practices and processes save customers nearly $2 billion a year or approximately $17 per month for the average customer.
Through its focus on cost reduction FPL ranks best in class among major U.S.
utilities or having the lowest operating and maintenance expenses measured on a cost per kilowatt hour of retail sales.
In additional while other utilities around the country are facing potentially higher cost to comply with the EPAs going power plant FPL is already well positioned and comply with the targets in Florida.
Today FPLs typical residential bill was about 20% lower than the stated average and about 30% lower than the national average and we expect it will continue to be among the lowest and lower than it was ten years ago in 2006 even with our requested base rate increases.
We look forward to the opportunity to present the details of our case and expect to make our formal filing with testimony and required detailed data in March.
The timeline for the proceeding will ultimately be determine by the commission but we currently expect that we'll have hearings in the third quarter with the final commission decision in the fourth quarter in time for new rates to go into effect in January 2017.
As always we are open to the possibility of resolving our rate request through a fair settlement.
Over a period in the last 17 years FPL has entered into five multi-year settlement agreement that have provide a customer with a degree of rate stability and certainty.
Our core focus will be to pursue a fair and objective review of our case that supports continued execution of our successful strategy for customers and we'll continue to provide update throughout the process.
Turning now to expectations for 2016 we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $5.85 to $6.35 and in the range of $6.60 to $7.10 for 2018 applying a compound annual growth rate of a 2014 base of 6% to 8% we continue to expect to grow our dividends per share 12 to 14% per year through at least 2018 of a 2015 base of dividends per share of $3.08.
As always our expectations are subject to the usual caveats including but not limited to normal weather and operating conditions.
Before moving on let me take a moment to discuss the expected impacts on the business of the recent phased down extension of bonus depreciation.
Let me start by saying that we had already assumed the extension of bonus depreciation in our 2016 financial expectations.
In addition after analyzing the recent extension we do not expect bonus depreciation to impact in NextEra Energy's earnings per share expectations through 2018.
At NEP as I mentioned earlier yesterday the board declared a fourth quarter distribution of $0.3075 per common unit or $1.23 per common unit on an annualized basis representing the 58% increase over the comparable distribution a year earlier.
From this base we continue to see 12 to 15% per year growth in LP distributions as being a reasonable range of expectations through 2020 subject to our usual caveats.
As a result we expect the annualized rate of the fourth quarter 2016 distribution to be in a range of a $1.38 to $1.41 per common unit.
The December 31 2015 run rate expectations for adjusted EBITDA of $540 million to $580 million and cap fee of $190 million to $220 million reflect calendar year 2016 expectations for the portfolio at yearend December 31 2015.
The December 31 2016 run rate expectations for adjusted EBITDA of $640 million to $760 million and cap fee of $210 million to $290 million reflect calendar year 2017 expectations for the forecasted portfolio at yearend December 31 2016.
Our expectations are subject to our normal caveats and our net of expected IDRPs as we expect these fees to be treated as an operating expense.
As we have said before in the long run in order for NEP to serve its intended purpose we need to be able to access the equity markets at reasonable prices.
For 2016 beyond the ATM program we continue to plan to issue a modest amount of NEP public equity to finance the growth included in our December 31 2016 annual run rate.
However we will be smart flexible and opportunistic as to how and when we access the equity markets.
If the equity markets are not accessible at reasonable prices we expect to have sufficient debt capacity at NEP that together with proceeds rates or at the market dribble program should be sufficient to finance currently planned 2016 transaction.
Where conditions are appropriate one alternative would be to raise equity privately prefunding drops before they are publicly announced.
However this is just one option that we're considering and we may access the equity markets in other ways when market conditions permit.
In addition we expect our drops to be smaller in magnitude in order to manage the capital required to finance the acquisitions.
As I mentioned earlier the at the market dribble program has proven to be successful as NEP raised approximately $26 million of equity during the fourth quarter and we will continue to seek opportunities to use this program to help finance potential future acquisitions.
We continue to believe it is important that we remained focused on the fundamentals and given the strength of NEP's sponsor and the prospects for future renewables development the NEP value proposition which relies on projects organically developed by Energy Resources rather than third party acquisitions for growth is the best in the space.
We plan to continue to be patient with NEP and have taken the necessary steps to provide time for recovery at the equity markets.
NEP benefits from a strong sponsor de-risked and long term contracted cash flows with an average contract life of 19 years strong counterparty credit and projects that in many cases have been financed predominantly through mortgage style financing that provides long term protection against interest rate volatility.
We remain optimistic that the NEP's financing model can and will work going forward.
In summary we have excellent prospects for growth.
The environment for new renewables development has never been stronger and FPL Energy Resources and NEP each have an outstanding set of opportunities across the board.
The progress we made in 2015 reinforces our longer term growth prospects and while we have a lot to execute in 2016 we believe that we have the building blocks in place for another excellent year.
With that we will now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Steven Bird with Morgan Stanley please go ahead.
Wanted to just check in on the solar valid initiative it looks like consumers for smart solar which you had supported has gotten the votes necessary.
Could you just speak to the process for getting this on the ballot and just what we should be looking at going forward there? Sure hi Steven good morning its Eric Silagy so the necessary votes were secured signatures those have been verified and its just two tests there is a number of votes or signature I should say and then also a number of congressional districts that seek at least half of the congressional districts those two tests have been met.
So the next step right now is at this language consumer referred solar amendment language has to be verified by the Supreme Court as being valid to be on the constitutional ballot that has to take place by April 1 briefs have been filed by number of groups in front of the Court.
Oral arguments have not been scheduled theyre not required actually.
So the Court could possibly rule without the oral arguments where theyll set oral arguments being heard and then by April 1 at the latest the Court will.
If the Court approves the language it will onto the ballot for November elections.
Okay.
That's very clear.
Thank you and then shifting over to resources.
We're obviously very happy about the expansion of the ITC and PTC.
Wanted to get your sense of the state of the tax equity market given continued growth in renewable we had heard some reports that the market is -- some of the players maybe exiting and overtime there could be a bit of a squeeze in terms of who is actually able to secure tax equity.
Would you mind talking at a high level in terms of your take on the health currently of the tax equity market and where you see that and whether or not that might be an advantage for you all given your position versus say smaller competitors? Sure Steven.
Actually we see the opposite we see the tax equity market actually strengthening.
One of the benefits of having a global banking network that as we have gives us the ability to access different tax equity providers and one of the things that we do at the beginning of each fiscal year and we just completed this process is work on our tax equity allocations going forward.
So we feel very good and to the extent that others that maybe having poor financial performance and don't have the same prospects for future growth may not have the same access to tax equity going forward that we do given the strength of our renewable pipeline and our track record which speaks for itself.
Very helpful.
Thank you very much.
And we'll go next to Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Just John going back to the bonus depreciation comment in fact that is not early affecting any of your funding or growth expectations can you walk us through where you guys expected to be from a tax cash payout respective and then how far into the future does that take you with the bonus depreciation to the extent [indiscernible]? Yes we don't expect bonus depreciation really to have much of an impact as to when we become a cash tax payer and the reason for that is that at Energy Resources we use tax equity financing because we used tax equity financing it really doesn't result in that much of a deferral of our deferred tax asset balance.
And it doesnt affect the FPL why? Well if you walk through the impacts on the business at FPL what you would expect to see is a lower amount of equity required to be put in the business because you have a lower tax liability Energy Resources we used the tax equity financing but on a consolidated basis at NextEra Energy the lower tax liability we have at NextEra Energy result in higher FFO to debt which gives us additional flexibility in terms of having to issue less equity and so having to issue less equity really offsets any impacts that we have at FPL and that's the reason why on a consolidated basis net-net bonus depreciation really is not expected to impact our financial expectations going forward.
Okay and I guess then were early on the idea of what's going to happen to the pipeline for a renewable development that in your past conversations suggest there is a lot of focus trying to jam in projects in '16 to catch the solar ITC.
Are you guys having discussions right now about your shifting the timing and magnitude of the shape of when the [indiscernible] get done and given the fact that the customers have more flexibility in than? No not the way our contractual structure.
Okay great thank you.
And we'll go next to Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please go ahead.
So first just on the capital markets and balance sheet needs just to be very clear about just in terms of equity expectations for this current year I think I heard you say you don't really expect any at the corporate level can you just explain upon the assumptions baked there in and specifically discuss capital recycling I presume that equity does not presume further capital recycling and how you think about more specifically what that recycling might look like? Obviously in light of the Texas decision is there more merchant divestment coming is what Ive asked just kind of the follow up.
In terms of our equities needs for 2016 our base case is that we're recycling opportunities available in our merchant generation portfolio that we'll continue to explore somewhere to what we do with the Lamar-Forney transaction back in 2015.
We also have some renewable assets that may be rolling off of contracts that could be good opportunities as well and then we have some renewable assets on the balance sheet that we have not previously put debt financing up against that could provide additional sources of capital for 2016 offsetting what would otherwise be a modest equity needs in 2016 for NextEra Energy.
Got it but just to be clear on equity here are you assuming further asset sales beyond the Lamar and Forney to make sure -- to hit that in your equity? Julian this is Jim you know I think the way you should think about it is everything we have is always for sale and if there is an opportunity to sell something that's accretive to the creeds or earnings going forward and makes sense from a strategic standpoint we're going to sell it.
But we're also not betting that we're going to have to sell in order not to have to issue equity this year.
You know how much equity content we need in any given year is always driven by how much capital we're going to deploy what the opportunities are how we're doing against all of our financing activities and we have a whole host of things that we a whole host of levers at our disposal that we go to and obviously issuing equity is very -- and the team knows this is a very low on my list of the kind of things that we want to do to do finance the plan.
Now obviously the flip side of that is we need a strong balance sheet and we're committed to strong ratios to maintain a strong balance sheet so you know what we said is I think very clear in the script.
We said we don't believe we're going to have an equity need this year and if there is one it's going to be very modest.
Great very clear and then just lastly on natural gas and obviously the dip we see here does that impact at all your rate based gas effort in Florida or your solar efforts in Florida? Well on the one hand you could say it should create more opportunities given the distress nature of that space and potential assets coming up for sale.
On the other hand it does provide somewhat of a limitation in that you have to able to identify producer operators that are willing to sell in today's lower natural gas price environment at a price that makes sense for Florida customers but we're working hard to identify those opportunities through the FPL origination efforts.
Julian this is Eric I'll just add that on the three solar projects it has no impact those are underway and remember those were advantage sites that we had because we had the property the transmission was there and so we're moving forward with those that provide customer benefits right up front.
Great thank you very much guys.
And we'll go next to Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research please go ahead.
Hi good morning so first just on the current renewable backlog opportunity I know you mentioned we'll have more specifics on the Q1 call but just could you just give a little bit and I might have missed it in the commentary just a little bit of a high level color on how you're looking at the extensions to the CPP kind of moving the needle on these things.
I think you said like maybe more like after a big push after '19 was that just want to make sure I understand what you -- the high level color you gave.
So Steve I think the first thing we looked at is if you go back over the last several years you probably had a renewable market in the US of 8 gigawatts to 9 gigawatts it's lumpy though as you know.
When we look at '17 through '20 we see a market that's probably much closer to 13 gigawatts to 15 gigawatts and there are some out there that would say that towards the latter part of the decade that that market could get up to 18 gigawatts to 20 gigawatts.
So when we look at it we say well you know gee whiz we've gotten our fair share in the past and so our expectation is to continue to get our fair share in the future.
If you look at wind on its own and by the way its often very difficult to separate how much of that is going to be wind and how much of it's going to be solar although I will tell you that solar is more and more competitive the longer you go out.
But if you look at the near term if you look at '17 and '18 on the wind side certainly the expectations are that there's going to be an awful lot of wind built right especially if the IRS comes through with what we think they're going to come through the same interpretation of in construction as they've had before you're going to likely get a 100% PTCs for CODs on wind all the way through the end of 2018.
2017 remains to be seen whether that will be a banner year for wind or not but I think combined '17 and '18 we'll be pretty good on the wind side.
Then you look at wind a little further out obviously you got CPP we and others have provided comments to EPA on CPP one of those comments that EPA asked for was what do we do with the clean energy incentive program right.
So right now states have to have a state implementation plan that could go in as late as the fall of 2018 before that plan goes in you can't really get under the incentive plan for renewables so that's probably a '20 to '21 billed that you see there we're hoping that comes up a little bit we do see CPP making a difference for wind probably starting in '19 but certainly no later than '20.
On the solar side the way that it's been structured you could potentially get 30% ITC on solar all the way through 2020.
I'd say this over and over again in the past we continue to be surprised by the demand for solar out there its certainly more competitive but there is lot of demand for solar.
So we see fairly steady solar growth from '18 through '20.
I think it was Dan asked the question before about '16 maybe go to '17 which I don't -- I agree with what John said but the point there also on solar is you may actually see a smaller '17 because still much is getting build in '16.
So is that good? Yes that's helpful and just the reason youre going to do the updated into Q1 versus now versus later as you just have better visibility on the backlog again to Q1? It will have -- I know that a lot of people read the CPP we've read at 100 times it's complicated.
We want to make sure that we understand what we think it's going to happen in the market but in addition we're talking to all of our customers and make sure that we understand what their plans are for the next couple of years.
Okay.
One other question on the gas pipeline business Jim I guess how are you thinking about -- are the projects on time are you seeing any counterparty risk and maybe more importantly given the rest on the business just do you see that as acquisition opportunities or stay away to be careful just how are you looking at what's going on in that space? We're making good progress in terms of timing on the projects and so I feel good about on the pipeline projects I feel good about that.
There is always pressure on timing and certainly FERC has been little slower in terms of pipeline permitting and it's been historically but we're feeling good about that.
In terms of counterparty risk obviously we feel good with our portfolio projects that vast majority of the counterparties that we have on all the pipelines across both the Florida pipelines Mountain Valley pipeline and the Texas pipelines they all are very strong credit worthy entities and so we don't have that counterparty risk that some of the other folks in the pipeline business do and our average contract length is quite long it's probably close to 20 years.
So given where the markets at obviously there is a lot of distress in this market we'd have interest only in pipeline with strong credit counterparties and long-term contracts.
And so if there are those that become available and there maybe some of those become available given some of the things going on the industry we'll be interested in that obviously we'll be disciplined as we always are vis--vis acquisition but it would be something that we'll look at.
But I have no interest in adding anything with commodity exposure and short contracts And we'll go next to Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Two questions one FPL related one near at FPL how much of the rate increase request is related to the total change in depreciation meaning you mentioned the D&amp;A study and then the incremental 200 million but we've also got the roll off of the RAG [ph] amortization is that part of that 200 million is that incremental to it.
And then Armando if you won't mind can you just talk about what the PTC roll off is not just in '16 but -- does that accelerate in '17m does it decelerate or stay at a constant level over the next couple of years? Okay Michael.
This is John I will take the first one then turn it over to Armando for the second one.
On the depreciation question about 200 million and the surplus amortization balance I think the 263 that I've mentioned earlier for '16 rolls off by the end of the year as part of our settlement agreement that expires.
And Michael we again have to get back to everybody obviously it's 37 in the next year which John mentioned in the call I don't recall what it is in the following year.
Okay and just on the FP&amp;L question the 200 million from the D&amp;A study that drives part of the rate increase request but then you had multiple years of accumulated regulatory amortization should we assume that all of that flows back in and not just the amount for 2015 but the multiple years into depreciation at -- in 2017 and beyond at FP&amp;L? I think the way you should think about the impacts of -- was there amortization first of all when you do depreciation study everything gets washed out in the study so you're looking at things fresh looking at the current what we currently depreciate in terms of our ongoing depreciation expense and we do a new study and we come up with a new revenue requirement from that study.
And there are a lot of puts and takes in it and you know the fact that we had some surplus amortization over the last several years has led to our rate base being a little bit higher than it otherwise would have been had we not had the surplus amortization but actually doesn't have a giant impact on the ongoing depreciation expense in the study.
Got it last one Jim just curious any thoughts on the bipartisan energy bill that's kind of weaving its way to the U.S.
Senate right now? You mentioned there were was some commentary earlier in the call about some of the investments in storage and I think there is some terms in that legislation if it were to make its way through that would have a pretty big impact on storage on the grid.
So Michael I give the sponsors a lot of credit for working to try to get something done in this environment that in this environment of Washington that said I think its highly-highly unlikely that anything gets done this year.
Got it thank you much appreciated guys.
And we're out of time for questions here thanks everyone for joining the program today you may disconnect and have a wonderful day.