Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2011 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Laura and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions]  I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Glen please proceed.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the first quarter of 2011 and provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we will refer to the supplemental slides available on our website at nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statement.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'll turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen and good morning and thanks for joining us today.
This morning's agenda is brief to provide us as much time as possible for questions and discussion.
So first I'll touch on a few key takeaways from our first quarter performance.
Next I'll note several key highlights for NiSource and each of our business units and then we'll open the line to your questions.
To kick off a few key takeaways from the first quarter.
If you turn to Slide 3 in the supplemental materials you'll see several headlines but the core message is this we're on track.
First and foremost our numbers are on track perhaps more so than immediately meets the eye as I'll touch on in a moment.
The strength of this year's performance if anything is obscured a bit by a few items.
So again the overriding takeaway is that NiSource's regulatory commercial and operational fundamentals are quite strong and our year-to-date performance is squarely in line with our 2011 earnings outlook.
Second our Indiana strategy is on track.
As you know a key focus for our NIPSCO team is successful resolution of our 2010 electric rate case.
That case is moving forward and we still expect resolution at the end of the year or early next year.
Third we're also building on our track record of successful regulatory and infrastructure modernization programs at our gas utilities.
These efforts are generating positive results this year and will continue to build long-term shareholder and customer value going forward.
And finally we remain on track with our growth investments at our Gas Pipeline and Storage business with a particular emphasis on those projects that leverage our very attractive footprint in the Marcellus Shale region.
Underpinning all these efforts is our commitment to effective financial management and a strong liquidity profile is demonstrated by our new $1.5 billion 4 year revolving credit facility that we closed in early March.
So the 10 second sound bite is this NiSource is on track to deliver on a robust agenda of infrastructure investments paired with exceptional commercial and regulatory execution.
With that preface let's now take a closer look at the quarter starting with our overall financial highlights on Slide 4.
As you can see we delivered first quarter net operating earnings non-GAAP of about $202 million or $0.72 per share.
As I mentioned a moment ago the year-over-year comparison is skewed a bit by 3 items: first the quarter's revenues were reduced almost $20 million as a result of rate design changes under last year's favorable NIPSCO gas rate case settlement.
Notably those revenue impacts will be mitigated through the course of the year.
Second during the quarter we recorded a non-recurring $8 million accounting charge related to environmental costs at NIPSCO.
And third in last year's first quarter we recognized revenues of about $8 million associated with the sale of native storage gas.
When you take these items into consideration and consider the strong fundamentals posted for the quarter you get a clearer picture of the ongoing earnings momentum we're building here at NiSource.
With that let's dive into our individual business unit results starting with Indiana and our Electric business on Slide 5.
Our Indiana team continues to make significant progress on our efforts to improve performance modernize services and rates and restore NIPSCO's earnings to an appropriate level.
From a financial standpoint NIPSCO electric reported first quarter operating earnings of about $42 million compared to $46 million for the same period in 2010.
Notably NIPSCO saw an increase in its industrial margins and usage that helped drive a net revenue increase of about $9 million excluding trackers.
Operating expenses increased by about $13 million over last year's levels.
However that jump was due in large measure to the environmental charge that I mentioned a moment ago.
On the regulatory front NIPSCO remains on track to establish new electric base rates by late 2011 or early 2012.
While the formal rate case process continues to move forward NIPSCO is actively engaged in settlement discussions with all of its stakeholders.
Once resolved we're confident the case will position the company for ongoing growth through continued customer focus investments in service reliability and environmental infrastructure.
Speaking of investments NIPSCO is moving ahead on installation of a new Flue Gas Desulfurization or FGD unit at our Schahfer Generating Station.
Preliminary engineering is complete and the crews have prepped the site and started construction.
You'll recall that this is the first of a number of FGD units planned across NIPSCO's system.
These investments more than $600 million over 6 to 8 years will strengthen earnings while creating hundreds of project-related jobs and improving the environment and economic vitality of the region.
Together these new units will reduce SOx emissions by an additional 80% beyond current levels.
Let's now shift to our Gas Distribution group on Slide 6.
Our Gas Distribution operating earnings for the quarter were about $237 million compared to about $235 million during the same period in 2010.
As I noted earlier there's a bit of noise net revenues excluding trackers were down due to the change in NIPSCO gas rate design as were expenses.
On the investment front Columbia Gas Kentucky Columbia Gas of Massachusetts Columbia Gas of Ohio and Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania all continued to advance their significant infrastructure modernization programs during the first quarter.
These ongoing programs which began more than 3 years ago proactively and systemically replaced portions of our system to ensure continued reliable and efficient service at the same time growing earnings.
As we continue to pair these programs with complementary regulatory activity in fact just last week we received approval from the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio on our most recent filing to recover costs associated with our infrastructure replacement and energy efficiency programs which will increase yearly revenues by about $24 million effective May 1.
And in Pennsylvania our team is advancing a base rate case filed in January seeking enhanced revenues of about $38 million.
The rate case is paired with an improved rate design and new programs to help senior citizens and others better manage their energy costs.
We expect to resolve that case by year's end.
Without question we believe the strong focus on infrastructure modernization at our utilities along with appropriate regulatory treatment will benefit our customers and communities as well as NiSource's shareholders for decades to come.
Let's now take a look at our NiSource Gas Transmission &amp; Storage Operations highlighted on Slide 7.
Here the team's focus continues to be on market-driven growth projects with particular emphasis on our extensive opportunities in the Marcellus Shale region.
From an earnings standpoint the NGT&amp;S team generated operating earnings of about $119 million in the first quarter compared to about $126 million in 2010.
Net revenues were relatively flat for the quarter as a result of last year's native storage gas sales.
Operating expenses were up only about $3 million.
Commercially our NGT&amp;S team continues to aggressively pursue an inventory of growth projects ranging from traditional transportation and storage services to power generation supply aggregation and other Marcellus production-related projects.
Some of our other near-term Marcellus investment includes the Clendenin and Smithfield projects Line WB and the Southern Appalachia project.
Together these projects will generate about 0.5 Bcf per day of new firm transportation capacity.
Also driven by increased Marcellus production Millennium Pipeline completed a binding open season for proposed mainline expansion projects to provide incremental firm transportation capacity to northeast markets.
Notably prior to the open season the company executed binding preceding  agreements with 2 anchor shippers.
We're also advancing the new power generation project in the mid-Atlantic region.
Although we can't share specific details at this time it's clear the power generation market has real potential for us given our strategic footprint between major generation hubs and the Marcellus Shale region.
You'll soon see our FERC certification filing for this power gen [generation] project.
On the regulatory front Columbia Gulf 2010 $50 million general rate case moved forward with the company placing new rates into effect subject to refund on May 1.
Columbia Gulf and the parties to the case are actively engaged in discussions to resolve the case.
As you can see the NGT&amp;S team continues to execute on its strategy of maximizing the value of its current asset base and capturing disciplined low risk high value growth opportunities.
To wrap up 2 key points.
First we're squarely in line with our expectations and remain on track to meet the net operating earnings guidance of $1.25 to $1.35 per share non-GAAP for 2011.
Second we remain confident that NiSource will sustainably grow long-term earnings in the range of 3% to 5% annually perhaps a bit more in the near term so we execute on our Indiana business and regulatory agenda.
As always we'll communicate with you and all our stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner regarding these and all of our efforts through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest and support of NiSource.
Laura let's now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Could you just maybe give us some mile posts or milestones to look for in a potential settlement in the Indiana electric case? Sure Paul.
Maybe just a pressing comment or 2.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks we're active in settlement discussions.
We're in the midst of a round of one-on-one discussions small group discussions.
The discussions have gone according to plan.
As you've heard me comment on several occasions this is going to require concerted concentrated efforts.
But so far so good.
Process wise we believe we're still up in that sweet spot or that window of time where we believe we can reach a resolution.
There's another round of evidentiary hearings scheduled for mid-month.
That will again involve NIPSCO witnesses [ph] talking about cost allocation rate design and the like.
The intervener stakeholders are then slated to present their testimony.
I believe it's in August give or take Paul.
So we believe between now and August Labor Day we have that window of opportunity to work with the stakeholders and they continue to be responsive constructive and we're working hard at achieving that settlement.
I guess over the last couple of months would you think you've gotten more or less optimistic about the prospects of settling? We stay very balanced about the prospects of settlement.
As I've again repeatedly said this case is challenging because it involves cost allocation which requires a shifting of dollars among customer classes.
And again that's heavy lifting.
So realistic approach to this we have a fair shot at getting a summon.
We're approaching it creatively.
And I'm still relatively optimistic.
I've also said that the second track of this proceeding is litigation.
We feel very very good about that track we feel very very good about our position.
I would note that we've just seen the Commission issue a fairly significant rate decision in a vectoring case.
We believe that decision is instructive constructive and frankly helpful to our litigation position.
So we go down both tracks in a realistic and concerted effort Paul.
And then just separately the Columbia Gas $50 million revenue increase how seasonal is that? Paul just for clarification I'm just looking at the team here.
I'm not sure I fully understood your question.
But are you referring to the Columbia Gulf rate proceeding rate case? The FERC case.
Yes.
As I mentioned those rates went into effect subject to refund on May 1.
Like Columbia Gas Transmission and many of the interstate pipelines it's primarily a fixed variable rate design.
So once those rates are -- they have gone in effect but once they are deemed just and reasonable we collect those on a fixed variable basis so they're spread fairly evenly throughout the year.
Perfect.
That's exactly what I was looking for.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Dobson from Wunderlich.
A couple of questions.
First start off on industrial sales particularly in the electric side.
I know you've got a lot of concentration there.
But 20 points 3% increase in the quarter is pretty healthy growth.
Just give us an idea sort of what you're seeing in the industrial side certainly after addressing electric I'd love to hear what you think on the gas side a little less concentration there? Yes let me start on the electric side.
As you've  observed the numbers are relatively strong.
They're certainly being led by the steel manufacturers in the region.
And James sure you've seen some of the announcements from U.S.
Steel and Mills about a relatively bullish outlook on demand through the first 3 quarters of the year.
And again those outlooks are being reflected in their production in this region.
You mentioned that we were up considerably quarter-to-quarter.
We're also up fairly strongly first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
So again we're seeing a reasonably good amount of strength in that area.
I just remind you and everybody that our plan assumes a very measured relatively slow recovery of the economy.
So our outlook's not premised on a spike in demand.
And again we're encouraged by this but our plan's not predicated on this being sustained over the near term.
Paul I'm sorry Jay you also mentioned gas volumes.
And again you see some pretty good strength across the footprint on industrial manufacturing throughput.
So again we're encouraged the plan is not predicated on those sorts of increases continuing but we feel pretty good about where we stand.
And just one other editorial and I know you recognize that on the industrial side particularly on the gas side of our business the margins for incremental throughput are relatively thin relatively thin.
So you're not going to see huge pops in revenue associated with that.
And I'd also say on the electric side we need the strength in the economy.
We certainly enjoy the strength in the production.
But again a lot of the margin revenues are not being driven by those industrial increases.
Right.
No no I absolutely recognize as you pointed out in the slides $9 million revenue for a 20% growth in industrial sales.
I absolutely appreciate that.
That is great.
And then on just the Marcellus infrastructure just sort of your latest thoughts.
Obviously that area continues to be hot and I'd imagine from your perspective ripe with infrastructure investment opportunities.
How do you see that developing over the next couple of years? Most of us would probably measure it in the form of capital spending and opportunities for you all to invest and hence produce earnings and cash flow? We think going forward over the next couple of years our target and we've been fairly clear on this is to spend about $200 million a year in the Marcellus region.
On relatively speaking small bite sized projects that debottleneck add capacity and the like.
This year we're going to spend about $150 million in the region.
We believe we're on track for that spend.
And the vast majority of the spend will continue to be on those bite size smaller projects to enable the production to get to a liquid point as quickly as possible.
Like you we see the region continuing to be active and we continue to work with the key players in the region: Range CONSOL MarkWest and others.
That's great.
And then lastly I don't think I quite follow you in your earlier comments Bob but you mentioned an accounting charge of about $8 million and you put it in the environmental category.
I was wondering if you could just give us a little insight there.
I'm sure it's in the Q.
Yes this is a NIPSCO electric.
By the way I don't believe it is yes it is in the Q sure it would be in the Q.
This is a NIPSCO electric and during a routine scrub of our regulatory assets at NIPSCO we discovered a relatively few old and relatively old deferrals of NIPSCO environmental cost that we just didn't believe are recoverable.
And I'd just emphasize a couple of things.
Nonrecurring this is not a go-forward problem with environmental cost this is not a go-forward problem with the environmental cost recovery tracker in Indiana.
So more of just a cleanup of some of these older costs? Yes just a routine scrub.
Dynamite.
I appreciate the time.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Maresca from Morgan Stanley.
A couple of questions if I may on the Gas Transmission &amp; Storage.
First on the quarter and just -- the earnings were down a little bit but -- and you mentioned decreased your short term [ph] transportation and storage services.
Help me think about what's the outlook for that for the remainder of this year over the next 4 quarters? And how should we be thinking about the decrease in the quarter? I know there was a gain in the first quarter of '10 that helped that? You could just take a close look at the numbers.
But let me give you the negatives and the positives when I think about NGT&amp;S for the quarter and for the year and you mentioned a couple of them.
We had the storage gas sale first quarter of 2010.
Our optimization business park and loan business continues to be flat or down a bit.
And then there's also a interest increase that occurred at Millennium as they firmed up their financing.
Again these are unusual out of the ordinary sorts of occurrences I think that do skew the quarter a bit.
But when you drill down and look on the NGT&amp;S numbers several notable pluses and takeaways that continue for the balance of the year and going forward.
Number one you'll see demand and commodity revenues are up in a very positive fashion again reflecting projects re-contracting and the like.
You'll also see that volumes are up considerably.
And third their underlying expense structure continues to be well-managed aggressively managed.
And then last but not least beginning in May we have the lift from the Columbia Gulf rate case.
We'll reserve a portion of that case but nonetheless we'll have a significant lift coming in.
So again when you cut through a bit of the noise and look at the key fundamentals demand commodity volumes expenses regulatory activity and then the projects that we're working on we feel good about NGT&amp;S and where it stands.
Okay that was helpful.
Switching same segment but into the growth outlook and you talked about 150 this year 200 as a target annually in the Marcellus region.
What sort of needs are you seeing from producers right now? Is it more on the strict pipe side or would you consider think about getting into more of a liquid opportunity if that arose? And how are contracts being -- are they still favorable is there still enough demand to get commitments? Yes on the last one we believe the market is still favorable to get commitments and structure arrangements that we feel meet our risk profile.
In the way of what the producers are looking for and you touched on most of those but it's a gathering quasi gathering debottlenecking getting gas to liquid points where they can monetize as quickly and effectively as they can.
We do believe that there will be opportunities for processing and the like liquid handling and the like.
That hasn't necessarily been our sweet spot.
Would we consider opportunities to enable or to leverage our ongoing investments in the area? Sure.
But they're going to have to meet our risk return profile.
And again we do believe there are opportunities in that region.
We've said this consistently we don't see production levels at levels that would support large scale long line expansion projects.
We do believe though as production grows and we do have more critical mass the gas will go further downstream we'll seek markets that will require larger scale investments.
But for the time being the bite size access providing sorts of projects that's where we'll continue to focus.
Okay that's helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst from BMO Capital.
Actually this -- Bob if I could just key off the last comment you made.
Most of my questions have been answered here.
But in recognizing that you guys are speaking at LDC forums and trade group meetings all the time.
There was one media article that ran about perhaps you guys looking at a mid-Atlantic pipeline which if I kind of go into memory I don't know if I remember the name right but it was like the old Patriot proposal from way back when? How serious is that? I mean at this stage is this something where we could in fact be looking at a new pipeline to serve mid-Atlantic generation I guess feeding mid-continent shale gas? Or is that something we should be putting more in the 3 4 5 year kind of bucket? It would be the latter sort of consideration.
But Carl if I could maybe I'll just give you a bit of an overview and a perspective from management on growth projects at NGT&amp;S.
Without a doubt without a question the primary focus is going to be leveraging this Marcellus opportunity that we have.
That's job 1 2 and 3.
And as you recognize that's a supply push a producer push sort of opportunity.
We are not going to predicate our entire growth on supply push so we are looking for demand opportunities on system adjacent to the system.
So we are going to continue to look at demand opportunities.
I mentioned the one power generation project that we are actively advancing.
That's a good example of continuing to focus on the demand side of the market.
The opportunity that you mentioned is called Kennesaw.
And again it represents demand focused opportunity for us.
It's a potential opportunity to provide an outlet or another market for Marcellus gas.
As you suggested this project is in the early early stage of development.
So that's one of the reasons it's not reflected in our formal comments today because we're actively working the market to determine whether this has a real potential for us.
So that's the overview on where we stand.
This project is a long-term sort of look.
And I'd just close out by saying our tenants for growth remain the same.
And anything we do is going to be focused is going to be disciplined.
Project or projects will be 100% contracted for.
And as you know we try to actively risk manage projects through the use of structured arrangements joint venture partners or whatever.
So a little bit of an overview and a little bit of color around how we regard demand projects.
I appreciate that.
Maybe one other question on the pipes and this kind of speaks to Millennium.
And I know you guys are kind of going through the binding the results of the open season.
But if that were to move forward what would be the timing of potential capacity expansion at Millennium? And I guess I'm also trying to just brainstorm and think about this in terms of the PENNSTAR pipeline which goes into Millennium because our understanding is that the wells coming out in Northeast Pennsylvania are so large that even Millennium is now kind of getting backed up for your open season.
And so is PENNSTAR partly predicated on the fact of getting more capacity on Millennium? We certainly believe that would be a help.
But maybe I could just go to the Millennium point.
The timing of the expansion 12 to 24 months is the window for this expansion.
We do believe that there are additional opportunities to effectuate very economic expansions of Millennium.
So we believe down the road there could be additional phases and so consider this maybe Phase 1 of that expansion.
To PENNSTAR we've been consistent in saying we believe this a 2014 project part of the softening of gas prices has moved that back a year or so.
Clearly opportunities for additional capacity on Millennium I think enhance the position of the PENNSTAR.
Great.
I appreciate the color.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan from Citi.
A few questions.
The projects you guys outlined in your gas transmission storage like the mid-Atlantic power generation projects and the 2 projects below.
What would be the cost of these the aggregate cost of these projects? I didn't hear your first point.
I heard something about the power gen? The size of that project is roughly $40 million give or take.
Okay.
And it's the same thing for these other projects too or are they smaller than that? In aggregate they approach $40 million to $50 million.
Okay I got you.
And then if I'm looking at the and I think you addressed this a little bit in some of your comments earlier if I'm looking at these throughput volumes at Gas Transmission &amp; Storage year-over-year was that mostly driven by weather or was there something else that was driving those volumes? Let me check.
I believe these are all weather normalized that you're looking at on NGT&amp;S and in fact for the other units.
And so from my perspective it's been increased demand and utilization of our facilities.
Okay.
So the throughput growth numbers you're seeing on Columbia Gas Transmission year-over-year has really increased customer use of your pipe? It's not weather-driven? Yes that's right.
It's basic usage.
Now again I would remind you the margins are very thin because the pipeline both Columbia Gas Transmission and Columbia Gulf are fixed variable pipelines so the contribution from that throughput is nominal.
Sure.
And then on the electric generation side the industrial volumes that you guys reported this quarter versus the fourth quarter of last year so fourth quarter 2010 seemed to be up somewhat significantly too.
I just want to make sure was that weather-driven or was that more demand-driven? It was demand-driven.
It was about 14%.
It was production from manufacturing steel producers and the like in the region.
Okay.
As we stand here today do you see that level of demand kind of sustaining into the rest of this year? We believe it will be flattish.
There are suggestions that the fourth quarter we're going to see a drop off as the production cycle begins to wind down.
Again we're just very conservative on the outlook for continued growth in that area.
We've been pleasantly surprised.
But again the plan is not really predicated on sustaining these sorts of growth rates for these levels.
Got you.
Okay.
And then just last question on the Flue Gas Desulfurization unit? What's the cost of that one unit for that plant? The first one Unit 14 is in the ballpark of $200 million.
Okay.
And that will be spent over the course of this year? This year and next year.
We need to have that unit in service roughly by the end of 2013.
Okay got you.
So '11 '12 '13.
Perfect.
I appreciate your time.
[Operator Instructions]  Your next question comes from the line of Elvira Scotto from Credit Suisse.
I just had a couple of follow-up questions.
Following up on one question where you indicated that if there are some opportunities within processing and handling in the Marcellus area you would look at it but it has to meet your risk reward profile.
Does that mean that you may consider some fee-based processing? Or would you actually take on some commodity price exposure? Fee based.
Fee based.
We've been religious about our approach to the business and about maintaining an appropriate risk profile.
So our center of gravity our bias is fee based activities.
Okay perfect.
And just to follow up on the mid-Atlantic power generation project a couple of questions there.
Is that part of the $200 million spend in the Marcellus? Or is that an incremental project? We consider that incremental.
Again the objective is in the Marcellus region on annual basis to deploy $200 million.
So that $40 million would be incremental to that $200 million? Correct.
Okay great.
And then if there's a projected in service date of 2014 at what point would you have to move forward with -- what's the timeline? Well Keep your as I suggested in my prepared remarks keep your eyes peeled for a FERC certificate filing for that project within a relatively short period of time.
Okay.
And then just to confirm on the demand if you start building more pipe -- demand pull but from Marcellus gas is that also considered incremental to the $200 million of Marcellus spend or is that longer-term part of that spend? What we've been saying this over the next 1 to 4 years we'd like to spend $200 million a year in Marcellus on the smaller debottlenecking aggregation sorts of projects.
So that's what the $2 million (sic) [$200 million] is about.
When you get further downstream power LDC markets and other demand areas that would be outside of the $200 million.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the call back over to Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
Thank you Laura.
And thanks to everyone for participating this morning.
We appreciate your engagement and your ongoing support of NiSource.
We'll see you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 NiSource Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Crystal and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Thank you Crystal and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the second quarter of 2011 and provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on our website at nisource.com.
I'd also like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking statements and these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning those risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'll turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
This morning's agenda is brief to allow as much time as possible for questions and discussion.
To start things off I'll touch on a few takeaways from our second quarter including outstanding progress the team has made in executing our business plan.
I'll then turn to key highlights for NiSource in each of our business units and then we'll open the line to your questions.
First I'd like to direct your attention to Slide 3 in the supplemental deck.
As you'll see from the highlighted accomplishments for the quarter we've made significant progress across NiSource in delivering on our balanced 4-part strategy for long-term sustainable growth.
Turning first to Indiana.
As most of you know on July 18 we filed a landmark settlement with the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission of NIPSCO's 2010 electric rate case.
The settlement which enjoys widespread support is the product of literally months of extensive discussions with customers and other regulatory stakeholders.
The agreement resolves all issues in the preceding -- would establish the foundation for NIPSCO to make ongoing investments in Northern Indiana's energy infrastructure.
These investments will help fuel job creation improve reliability pave the way for new customer programs and provide a reasonable return for shareholders.
In terms of financial impacts we're confident the settlement if approved by the IURC would position NIPSCO to deliver results fully in line with our expectations.
As you would expect the party's attention is now keenly focused on the approval process.
And together we've asked the IURC to act on the settlement by year end so the new rates can be placed into effect by early 2012.
Also on the regulatory front in early July we filed a partial settlement of our Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania rate case.
If approved the case will increase revenues by about $17 million annually.
Among the 2 issues reserved for a determination by the Pennsylvania Commission is the prospective rate design for residential customers.
As many of you know rate design reform is an area where we have made significant progress in a number of our states.
And we're pleased to have the opportunity to make our case with the Pennsylvania Commission.
We anticipate a resolution of the litigated issues as well as the settlement in time to place new rates into effect during the fourth quarter of this year.
Our NiSource's Gas Transmission &amp; Storage or NGT&amp;S unit delivered second quarter earnings that were impacted positively by a number of growth projects completed during the second half of 2010.
The NGT&amp;S team is delivering projects on time and on budget and is continuing to build a solid portfolio of projects particularly in the Marcellus supply area.
Also noted on Slide 3 we remain committed to thoughtful and disciplined financial management and in particular to maintaining the strength and flexibility to execute our long-term $1 billion plus annual capital expenditure program.
During the second quarter our finance team completed a $400 million 30-year bond offering taking advantage of a very attractive interest rate environment.
We also introduced a $500 million commercial paper program which further diversifies our short-term funding sources and is fully supported by our recently renewed revolving credit facility.
Although not mentioned on the slide on the equity side of the balance sheet as most of you know during September of last year we successfully executed a $400 million forward equity sale which we can draw upon at anytime through September of next year.
Now a bit of a heads up as we discussed on prior calls our modeling assumption has been to draw half of the equity this September and the balance in September of 2012.
That said we've not yet made a firm decision on timing.
Given our strong cash position including the significant positive impact of bonus depreciation we're now considering the possibility of drawing the entire amount of the equity during the second half of next year.
Back to Slide 3 on a macro level the key takeaway for the second quarter is that we're on track to deliver 2011 earnings solidly in line with our guidance of $1.25 to $1.35 per share non-GAAP.
With those highlights as a backdrop let's now take a closer look at the quarter starting with the snapshot of our financials on Slide 4.
As you can see we delivered second quarter net operating earnings non-GAAP of about $46 million or $0.17 per share compared to $0.13 per share in 2010.
And our operating earnings increased for the quarter to approximately $162 million.
Turning to our individual business units.
Let's start in Indiana with our electric business as summarized on Slide 5.
In addition to the breakthrough progress on the electric rate case our Indiana team continues to make significant progress on our efforts to improve operating performance meet customer needs and modernize our services and rates.
On the operations front we were particularly pleased with the exceptional performance of our electric generation fleet as well as our transmission and distribution systems during the recent period of unprecedented hot weather across our operating area.
On multiple occasions we reached peak generation levels at near-record levels.
From a financial standpoint NIPSCO electric reported second quarter operating earnings of about $37 million compared to $48 million for the same period in 2010.
Revenues were essentially unchanged.
While operating expenses increased by about $11 million over last year's levels primarily due to higher planned electric generation cost.
Looking forward to rate case settlement if approved by the IURC will provide the underpinning for ongoing customer focus infrastructure investments in service reliability and environmental improvements and sustainable earnings growth for the company.
On the customer front we recently received approval from the IURC on NIPSCO's feed-in electric and net metering programs.
These programs allow customers to generate more of their own electricity using renewable energy to offset their utility costs.
In addition just last week the IURC approved NIPSCO's request for a variety of new electric energy efficiency programs designed to help the company's electric customers reduce their energy consumption and save money.
And last but certainly not least NIPSCO's Flue Gas Desulfurization or FGD units at the company's Schahfer Generating Station are under construction and remain on schedule and on budget.
As you'll recall our investments in these FGD units is part of an up to approximately $850 million environmental investment stream over the next 8 years or so will strengthen earnings while creating hundreds of project-related jobs and improving the environment and economic vitality of the region.
Let's shift now to our Gas Distribution Group discussed on Slide 6.
NiSource Gas Distribution or NGD operating earnings for the quarter were about $49 million compared to about $36 million during the same period in 2010.
Revenues were relatively unchanged.
While operating expenses were about $12 million less than last year primarily as a result of lower depreciation costs.
On the regulatory front as noted earlier the Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania base rate case is pending before the Pennsylvania Commission and new rates are expected to be placed into effect in the fourth quarter of the year.
In addition our investments in infrastructure modernization programs in Kentucky Massachusetts Ohio and Pennsylvania all continue to advance.
As we've highlighted in prior discussions these investments are designed to ensure continued safe reliable and efficient service while at the same time growing NGD's earnings on a long-term sustainable basis.
And we continue to pair these programs with complementary regulatory activity.
Most recently on June 1 Columbia Gas of Virginia filed a request with the Virginia State Corporation Commission for accelerating the recovery of certain infrastructure projects consistent with the law passed by the Virginia Legislature in 2010.
We expect a decision from the commission in the fourth quarter.
Let's now take a look at our NiSource's Gas Transmission &amp; Storage operations highlighted on Slide 7.
Commercially our NGT&amp;S team continues to aggressively pursue an inventory of growth projects to serve supplier aggregation in other Marcellus production-related capacity requirements as well as growing natural gas needs of the power generation industry.
From an earnings standpoint NGT&amp;S generated operating earnings of about $85 million in the second quarter compared to about $75 million in 2010.
Net revenues were about $14 million higher as a result of growth projects placed into service in 2010 as well as the impact of new rates placed into effect subject to refund by Columbia Gulf in May.
Operating expenses were up about $6 million over last year due to higher employee and administrative expenses and depreciation costs.
During the quarter the team completed 2 significant Marcellus-related projects our Southern Appalachian and Clendenin projects.
Other ongoing investments include the Rimersburg Expansion the Smithfield project and the Line WB Expansion.
These and other projects were highlighted on the key marker slide on the last page of the appendix to the supplemental materials.
I would also mention that as noted in this morning's press release NGT&amp;S has added a number of industry veterans to its senior commercial leadership ranks over the last several months.
These key adds will support NGT&amp;S' ability to capitalize on midstream and other commercial opportunities available across its extensive footprint.
In terms of investments to meet growing power generation demand in May NGT&amp;S filed an application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or the FERC to construct the pipeline infrastructure to provide 240 000 dekatherms of firm transportation to Virginia Power's planned 1 300-megawatt gas-fired generation facility in Warren County Virginia.
Pending approval by the FERC the project is expected to be placed into service in 2014.
NGT&amp;S continues to actively pursue similar projects to serve new natural gas-fueled electric generation markets including coal conversion opportunities.
On the regulatory front as I mentioned Columbia Gulf placed new rates into effect subject to refund on May 1.
The regulatory team currently is in advanced discussions with customers and other stakeholders to settle the case on a mutually acceptable basis stay tuned.
In the meantime NGT&amp;S remains intently focused on the continued execution of its strategy of maximizing the value of its current asset base and capturing disciplined low-risk high-value growth opportunities.
To wrap up as this quarter's and year-to-date results attest the NiSource team is continuing to build on its track record of delivering collaborative regulatory and commercial solutions for its customers and making disciplined low-risk investments that will grow earnings on a sustainable basis.
And the team is dedicated to maintaining its solid level of performance through the balance of the year and to hitting the ground running in 2012.
Although much work certainly lies ahead I'm convinced that we have a compelling game plan and the resources and capabilities to continue to look to deliver on our commitments including our commitment to grow earnings in the 5% zip code on a long-term sustainable basis.
As always we'll communicate with you and all our stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner regarding these and all of our efforts through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest and support of NiSource.
Now Crystal if you would let's open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Today's first question comes from the line of Steve Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
So first thing I want to talk on the NGT&amp;S and you deepened your leadership ranks there.
And maybe you can talk about is this due to the fact that you may be seeing more growth potential in that business than before? And just what do you think the opportunities are in the next 2 to 3 years and how you're seeing that play out? And as a subset to that obviously recently there's been talk about even a new play in the Utica.
I know it's very early but just sort of where your assets fit in with that potentially as well.
Well I think you've covered all the key considerations that went into deepening and expanding the team.
Number one we remain very very bullish on the Marcellus particularly the wet region where our footprint sits atop that play.
If you recall that our stated intention is to deploy about $200 million in that region of the Marcellus on an annual basis.
This year we're going to spend about $150 million.
So we certainly want to ramp that up accelerate it and hit the $200 million mark in that area.
We continue to see opportunities and the team's charge is to capture those opportunities.
You also hit though on the other consideration and that's the emergence of the Utica play particularly in Ohio and Western Pennsylvania -- Eastern Ohio and Western Pennsylvania.
Again I would suggest that we believe we have a great position with regard to facilities our footprint acreage position.
We are engaged.
We're aggressive.
We want to be on front of that emerging opportunity.
So over the next 6 12 18 months as that region is defined or that opportunity is defined and drilling ramps up we want to be there.
We want to be very very active.
Okay.
Are you seeing in at least the Marcellus right now with the activity and some competition are you seeing any pressure on costs on your end? Not to a material extent.
You're correct there is competition.
But we believe that the economics -- at least for our projects the economics are holding up.
Okay.
Final question and I'll get back in queue.
With the rate settlement in the IURC needing approval are there any -- what are the next steps before getting out of the things that we should be looking for over the next several months? Yes we're still in the -- deep into the approval of process.
There have been 2 rounds of testimony submitted to support the settlement agreement one set was -- by the company by NIPSCO.
A second set that I recommend you may take a look at is a very very well done testimony by interveners that support the testimony.
In about mid-August we'll see another submission of testimony.
There's one group that does not support the settlement so we'd expect to see that circa mid-August.
Then in mid-September there will be a hearing on the settlement against the document the agreement and to move it to the next step.
And as you know and recall the settlement provides for commission approval by year end.
So that's what everyone is working on is to secure that approval so that rates can go into effect the first of 2012.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
First of all just on weather it wasn't clear to me.
I saw the weather adjustment I see that industrial sales were up a lot.
But it seemed that there was a bit of -- I guess the residential and commercial seemed to be a little bit down.
What's going on there? Yes I will just make a couple of observations.
Number one it's a shoulder month -- or shoulder period shoulder quarter on the gas side certainly on the electric side.
So for us it's hard to draw many firm conclusions on what's going on in the residential and commercial fronts.
Our assumption as we provided outlooks to the financial markets has been that the residential market would be relatively flat in terms of usage.
We still believe that is the case.
And I think from one quarter particularly as a shoulder quarter it's hard to draw additional conclusions and insights beyond that.
So we wouldn't read too much into it.
Just to make a bit of an editorial comment about the economy in Northwest Indiana it continues to be somewhat sluggish.
We see a few signs of accelerated recovery but certainly nothing that we would consider to be a trend.
As you indicated the industrial volumes look pretty good for the quarter.
But again we would just say that we believe the recovery is going to be very slow very measured.
Our plan reflects that.
Our plan does not reflect any robust recovery in any of the usages or deliveries in the entire footprint.
And then in terms of the gas transmission business and the management changes there is there any more thought process that you want to add to in terms of the potential for an MLP or activities such as that that we might want to think about that you might want to talk about? Yes.
Let me just be clear on the management team and the addition of folks at NGT&amp;S for the midstream.
There weren't changes.
We are building supplementing augmenting the team.
And so that's what that was about as opposed to "changes".
It was really bolstering a good team that we have in place.
In terms of MLP and structure right now we feel like we do have the appropriate structure.
I've consistently mentioned that the MLP is on our radar screen.
We continue to monitor review and consider that and other structures.
But for the time being we believe we have the proper structure in place to optimize the opportunities.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Can you give us the capital associated with the Rimersburg Smithfield and WB? Yes they're relatively small.
In total it's about $35 million of investments.
Smithfield and WB are in the $14 million to $15 million zip code.
Rimersburg at least the first phase of Rimersburg is about $6 million.
And then in Virginia around the acceleration of the reliability it's kind of going from what to what? Are we talking about Columbia Gas of Virginia and its falling under the Save Program? Yes.
Yes it's about $20 million a year is what we're going to be spending on that program so $20 million a year.
And that is incremental Paul just to be clear.
Just your talk around the drawdown of the equity balance.
I haven't run the numbers but is that upside to your guidance of $1.25 to $1.35 if you wait to put those shares out? No it's not upside.
So it's reflected in the outlook we're giving you for 2011.
And then obviously there's a big transaction of a company that looks a lot like NiSource in a lot of people's views.
Yes I heard about that.
I read something about that.
How do you think about that? Well we believe it certainly underscores highlights amplifies the inherent value of our assets.
So it certainly reinforces what we believe to be true that our assets are extremely valuable.
It certainly sharpens our focus to ensure that we have a solid business plan across all the business units and that we execute against that plan in a very aggressive way.
And I would just maybe take a moment to add that with all 3 business units now positioned to grow consistently with what we believe are very very deep inventory of investment opportunities at each of our business units with we believe the opportunity to grow the dividend in the not-too-distant future and increase visibility of all of the businesses we do believe that we have a runway for an increased valuation.
I think you may have heard Steve Glen and I talk to you and others about headroom on the multiple of our value.
And then going forward we believe that we ought to be valued more closely to high-quality gas LDCs.
And if you look at those valuations you look at a sum of the parts -- sum of a parts analysis of NiSource there's probably 2 turns of value -- multiple value that we need to go after.
So we're going to be making that case.
And again the clarity that we have now at NIPSCO the increased inventories we have at all the units we think we can make a compelling case for additional shareholder value.
Last time we talked there was some thought about another analyst day.
Where does that stand? We certainly are focused number one two three and four in the regulatory process in Indiana.
So we need to work through that process with our stakeholders and we'll be back to you later on additional discussions.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Dobson with Wunderlich Securities.
Congrats on the additions at NGT&amp;S I agree with your concept.
Bolstering out that team is great given the opportunity you have.
And I'd really like to start there.
I know the first questioner was asking about this -- but Bob let me push back a little bit.
What's the magic around $200 million of CapEx? And I know you're not quite there yet.
So it's a high-class problem given what's going on in the Marcellus and potentially in the Utica.
But it seems like there's a lot of opportunity.
You have a great team.
I consistently struggle at 30 000 feet why we can't grow even faster than we are? Yes and $200 million a year in the Marcellus is not a cap Jay.
It's a near-term target to get the spend up.
And obviously we preached and will continue to preach disciplined and focused investments.
So when we say $200 million it's not a cap it's a near-term objective.
We certainly would do more if we see projects that make sense financially and strategically.
And I just want to remind you and everybody else that it was only 3 4 years ago that across NiSource we were just purely in a maintenance mode.
And our CapEx spend was roughly $0.5 billion.
In very quick order we've ramped it up to $1.1 billion.
So we have just -- we've blown up we're very quickly.
We want to take it to the next level.
Building the team is one step of many to do that.
And again I'll just re-emphasize that we will grow as fast as the opportunities and the financial flexibility and the discipline allow us to do it no artificial constraints.
Okay no that's great.
And you know don't misunderstand.
Certainly the discipline I think is an incredibly important part in these rapidly developing areas.
But if you're not at $200 million this year is $200 million sort of a reasonable objective for '12? Yes.
I think that's the zip code.
If we see more projects it could bump above.
If we don't see projects that fit our perspective then it might be a little bit less.
Got you no that's perfect.
And to go back to the transaction that's been widely reported that you were just talking about.
When I look at things in a little more granular sense obviously it would be very easy for you all to raise the flag and say the company is for sale.
But certainly when you look at valuations like are being touted for Southern Union it certainly is got to make you look at your portfolio and say which assets if we were to receive a favorable price we would part with.
Have you guys started to look at some of that stuff? And maybe give us a little idea of at least what would be in that realm of possibility? Yes the focus has been on the business plan and making sure that we have a business plan that's robust we can execute against.
And that's been the primary focus has been fixing these businesses and repositioning them.
We've seen the market respond favorably to the work that we've done.
And we think if we continue to focus on growth take a look at the dividend provide more visibility and as I said make the argument which we think we can in a convincing way that we have value headroom when you look at the company.
We think that's going to be in the shareholder interest.
Got you.
But you would say there's really no -- we shouldn't be anticipating any asset sales or other things you would put up just for sale anticipating the market to pay a better price and perhaps you think is worth.
Right now the focus is -- it's always shareholder focused Jay.
You know that.
And right now we don't have assets up for sale.
We love the portfolio and we love the business plan.
And the focus is going to be increasing valuation.
No that's fantastic and definitely have assembled a great portfolio.
Last question Bob on the Columbia Gas -- sorry the Columbia Gulf settlement timing on that? I know you sort of said stay tuned but...
Yes stay tuned.
The team is hard at work.
Again a constructive group of stakeholders have made great progress I would say sooner rather than later.
And we hope to wrap this up by year's end.
Our next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
A lot of the questions hit here maybe just one on NGT&amp;S and when we've talked a little bit certainly about the deepening and building of the management team perhaps now looking over at Utica very -- what is looking to be a very wet gas play.
Bob has this changed at all your thought process of evaluating further down the midstream chain i.e.
processing or other things that are -- could bring commodity exposure if you find the right deal or the right EBITDA deployment? Or should we be thinking about this strictly in more of the what you've kind of built a great track record here in 2011 as far as the smaller but fee-based type of projects? The heart of the strategy continues to be fee-based Carl.
We would certainly consider activities back to the wellhead but I would underscore our orientation.
Our bias is fee-based versus commodity exposure.
But we would be interested in playing across the entire chain.
So when you say across the entire chain so is the processing for fee? If it fits the right risk and operational profile we would consider processing fee-based.
Understood.
The other question just actually 2 small ones on the Flue Gas the FGD units.
Do I still have my numbers right we're looking at a very big potential spend here over the next 8 years over the next 3 years or including 2011 -- 2011 to 2013 still roughly in the $200 million mark or has that -- has any of that gotten more front-end loaded? I would say over the next 3 to 4 years we would be approaching $0.5 billion in spend.
So it's accelerated compared to where we were maybe a year ago Carl.
But I would say over the last gosh 9 months 6 months we've been talking in terms of a spend that we would front-load almost $500 million.
That's consistent with the settlement agreement that we reached with the EPA.
And that agreement consequently has been consistent with the new regulations that the EPA has issued.
Now those are ballpark numbers but order of magnitude that's directionally correct.
Okay.
And that's 3 to 4 years beyond 2011? Just to make sure I've got the timeframe correct.
Yes.
And maybe just last question to your comments on the opportunity to grow the dividend in the not-too-distant future tremendous achievement I think.
Should we still be thinking of a stated payout ratio in the 55% to 60% range or is that more sort of a rule of thumb and not necessarily a hard range? Well I'd say at the outset to be determined.
We need to engage the board although the board has been keenly interested in the dividend and when we can resume growth we need to engage the board on specifics.
What we've said internally and externally is we've taken note of the peers -- many of our peers who are in a payout range of 60% to 70% obviously midpoint 65%.
Some have talked in terms of that payout ratio.
Some of them have talked in terms of annual growth.
We just haven't made that decision yet.
First things first we need to finish our process here in Indiana with NIPSCO and then take up that consideration.
Our next question comes from the line of Yves Siegel with Credit Suisse.
I'm just curious on -- and I hate to kick a can but on the MLP discussion could you just again review sort of the pros and cons especially sort of within the context of trying to unlock value for shareholders? Yes.
Let me maybe begin on the technical side and Steve can certainly supplement my comments.
Number one we originally looked at the MLP as an opportunity.
We in fact filed with the SEC for the opportunity.
We were looking at small organic discrete drop-down projects that would build a small MLP.
Again the growth that that opportunity 3 or 4 years ago small individualized projects that were discrete.
As the market has changed and the growth profile has changed we're now seeing growth projects on our system that are integrated intertwined with our system.
They tend to be add-ons bolt-ons debottlenecking looping added compression on existing facilities and those projects haven't been amenable to a small drop-down strategy.
So we have not seen technically speaking a good fit for the MLP when we look at our current growth profile and I would emphasize current growth profile.
Again we're not discounting this out of hand.
When we looked at other forms of the MLP we've had a concern because of tax basis.
Our current assets are very very low tax-based assets so that's been a consideration.
Last but not least and it's less of a -- may in certain quarters be less of an issue today than it was previously is credit agency concern.
And 2 years ago 3 years ago of course credit rating concerns were acute.
And we felt that an MLP might disturb the view of the credit rating agencies around NiSource.
So that gives you some of the key considerations that we've had to deal with in the past and that we currently are dealing with.
And then as you think about expanding perhaps into Utica what's the thought process in terms of JV with others to help maybe mitigate some of that commodity price risk that you could have if you decide to move into processing? Again we would consider those sort of structure as opportunities unfold.
We've used JVs in situations such as the Millennium Project Hardy Storage Project or in a joint development arrangement with UGI on the PENNSTAR project.
So situation by situation we would consider JVs.
And if they fit we'd certainly go down that track.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom O'Neill with Green Arrow.
I apologize if I missed this earlier.
I was jumping back and forth could you clarify what acreage position you guys have in the Utica and the Marcellus and just what mineral rights exist? Yes let me start with the overall view on acreage.
We do have extensive acreage in Ohio and Pennsylvania.
The acreage tends to be associated with storage fields.
And the strata cover tends to be relatively extensive.
In the past we've had 3 arrangements where we have leased acreage.
It's been Marcellus acreage as opposed to any other strata or rights.
So we retained a fairly significant footprint in Ohio and Pennsylvania that would have Utica opportunities.
We've not yet defined with precision how many of those acres are in fact leasable.
But I would suggest that they're significant.
Okay when do you suspect you'd...
More color to come Tom.
Okay.
Just in future calls or...
Yes as we delineate our position and as the Utica becomes a little bit more clear and defined we can give you better guidance on what that position looks like.
And again how many of the acres are in fact leasable because they are associated with storage.
They have other considerations attached to them.
And I'm a bit hesitant to give you a number when it lacks the precision and detail that really makes it meaningful to you.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
I would like to hand it back to Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
Crystal thanks so much.
And again we want to thank you for your interest in NiSource your support and your participation on this morning's call.
Thanks and we'll see you in the not-too-distant future.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lacey and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] And I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed.
Thank you Lacey and good morning to everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the third quarter of 2011 and provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on our website at nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thank you Glen.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
This morning's agenda is brisk to allow time for your questions.
To start things off I'll touch on a few key highlights that demonstrate the team's continued progress on executing NiSource's business plan.
I'll provide a few specific updates on NiSource's results as well as the performance of our key business units and then we'll open the line to your questions.
Starting off let's turn to Slide 3 in the supplemental deck labeled Key Takeaways for the Third Quarter.
I'll discuss in a moment despite sluggish economic conditions our balanced investment-driven strategy continues to deliver solid earnings growth and increased shareholder value.
Our strategy also has remained true to our underlying commitments to do the right thing in enhancing customer service modernizing our energy infrastructure and expanding our network across the entire NiSource footprint.
As noted in this morning's release our performance today has NiSource on pace to deliver earnings at the upper half of our 2011 guidance range of $1.25 to $1.35 per share non-GAAP.
NiSource is also on track to deliver double-digit shareholder returns for the third consecutive year significantly outperforming the utility indices and the broader markets.
This performance record is the direct result of the continued exceptional execution in array of core initiatives across each segment of NiSource's businesses.
Just a few examples.
From a regulatory standpoint we've received approval for a significant rate case settlement in Pennsylvania.
We also advanced settlement of our Columbia Gulf rate case as FERC approval targeted by year end.
In Indiana our watershed electric rate case settlement remains on track for approval late this year or early 2012.
Meanwhile NIPSCO's substantial environmental scrubber investment program at our Schahfer Generating Station remains on schedule and on budget.
And then our Gas Transmission &amp; Storage business new CEO Jimmy Staton is driving development with an aggressive comprehensive plan to leverage NiSource's unparalleled position in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions.
With that premise let's now take a closer look at the quarter starting with the financial highlights on Slide 4.
As you can see we delivered third quarter net operating earnings non-GAAP of about $33 million or $0.11 per share compared to $0.04 per share in 2010.
Our operating earnings increased for the quarter from about $110 million to over $140 million.
As I mentioned a moment ago given our strong year-to-date performance coupled with our expectations for the balance of the year we expect that our full year results will be in the upper half of our non-GAAP earnings range of $1.25 to $1.35 per share for 2011.
Shifting to our individual business unit results.
Let's start in Indiana with our Electric business as summarized on Slide 5.
The pending electric rate case settlement is unquestionably a huge milestone for NIPSCO its customers and our many other Indiana stakeholders.
This landmark agreement has been literally years in the making sets the stage for NIPSCO to provide customers with reliable competitively-priced electric service while making long-term investments in our infrastructure.
This outcome contributes to the economic vitality environmental sustainability of northern Indiana while earning a fair return on NIPSCO's investment base.
As I mentioned earlier we anticipate receiving approval of the pending settlement by year end or early 2012.
Our Indiana team also continues to make significant progress on efforts to improve operating performance meet customer needs and modernize our systems.
For example on the customer front we received approval for a number of new electric energy efficiency programs that complement our existing natural gas conservation programs and help customers manage their energy costs.
Progress also continues on significant environmental upgrades at NIPSCO's Schahfer Generating Station.
I noted earlier this work remains on schedule and on budget.
As you'll recall the Schahfer improvements are part of the NIPSCO environmental investments stream.
With the next 6 to 8 years that will approach $900 million.
Taken together these efforts are helping NIPSCO customers manage energy use providing a long-term environmental and economic benefits for northern Indiana supporting stable and sustaining earnings growth.
The third quarter our Electric Operations reported operating earnings of about $73 million compared to $80 million for the same period in 2010.
Revenues were down about $4 million primarily reflecting lower environmental spend and associated cost recovery compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Operating expenses increased by about $3 million primarily due to higher employee administrative expenses and rate case costs.
Let's now take a look at our NiSource Gas Transmission &amp; Storage operations highlighted on Slide 6.
Jimmy Staton and the team are working aggressively to advance key strategies to enhance system reliability and customer service develop new growth projects and leverage NiSource's strategic footprint in emerging shale production areas.
The quarter NGT&amp;S generated operating earnings of about $68 million compared to about $76 million in 2010.
Net revenues were up about $11 million thanks to growth projects placed into service as well as the impact of new Columbia Gulf rates that took effect subject to refund in May.
Operating expenses were up $19 million for the quarter due primarily to an adjustment of an environmental reserve totaling about $11 million.
As I noted earlier Jimmy and his team are intently focused on developing and deploying a robust comprehensive strategy for meeting customer needs maximizing the value of our extensive pipeline and storage assets and our attractive position in the Marcellus and Utica shale production regions.
In the Marcellus area our expansion projects continue to produce tangible results.
In aggregate weve added about 1.2 BCF per day of pipeline capacity in the Marcellus shale region.
As I noted that the team continues to aggressively pursue additional growth projects.
On the leadership front just yesterday we announced that 2 seasoned industry veterans are joining the NGT&amp;S senior leadership team.
Joe Shields who most recently served as CEO of Millenium Pipeline is joining NGT&amp;S in the role of Chief Operating Officer our regulated pipeline and storage businesses reporting to Jimmy.
In addition Steve Warnick who has served in a variety of executive positions in virtually every sector of the industry including a stint with Chesapeake Energy will be joining Joe's senior team as Senior Vice President of Supply and Business Development.
You also may recall that we have announced a number of key leadership adds in our midstream business most recent of which is John Howard who joined the team as Senior Vice President for Strategy and Development.
In his new role John will support the development and execution of the company's midstream strategy from mineral rights to project development.
In tandem with our midstream efforts the team is continuing to advance low-risk high-value growth opportunities including projects to serve gas-fueled electric generation markets.
In addition to the Warren County Virginia project that we announced earlier this year to serve a 1 300-megawatt new Dominion power-generating facility the team is in active discussions with a number of large power generators to meet their needs for new natural gas infrastructure.
Before moving to our gas distribution unit I'd like to touch on a couple of additional matters relating to NGT&amp;S.
First I know there is considerable interest in the extent and potential value of our mineral rights particularly in the Utica shale region.
At this point what we can share with you is this: we currently estimate that we have between 100 000 and 200 000 acres in the Utica area associated with our Ohio storage leases that may have potential for natural gas and/or oil production.
We will refine this notional range as we continue our geotechnical and legal analysis and as the producers continue to delineate the parameters of the play.
In addition I would note that our ultimate mineral rights strategy and value will be heavily influenced by our ongoing discussions with key producers participating in the Utica discussions I would describe as constructive but not yet at a mature stage.
Finally I want to emphasize that as we develop and assess our approach and our options for this opportunity our focus will be on long-term shareholder value which ultimately is what we're all about.
I fully recognize that folks are anxious to receive additional detail and definition on our minerals opportunity.
For our part we are committed to being transparent and timely in providing high-quality reliable information without premature speculative observations.
This time we expect to be in the position to provide further definition in the first quarter of next year.
That said if we have something meaningful to share prior to then we'll certainly do so.
Turning to the second NGT&amp;S-related consideration.
You would expect we've observed with keen interest a significant level of activity unfolding in the midstream business including pending M&amp;A transactions involving Southern Union in El Paso.
In light of those developments it might be helpful to take a moment to reiterate our perspective on our NGT&amp;S business which is very straightforward: we believe it's a great business and a key part of the NiSource portfolio which have tremendous assets exceptional investment opportunities invigorated leadership and the ability to consistently grow earnings and increase value over the long term for our shareholders.
While we've consistently said that we have an open mind when it comes to options and approaches including alternative structures to ensure we're optimizing the value of NGT&amp;S we believe that our current plan and structure continue to be the appropriate one for us.
Having said that I can assure you that our team will continue to explore and help us to continue optimizing our NGT&amp;S business.
Let's now shift to our Gas Distribution group discussed on Slide 7.
The hallmark of our Gas Distribution strategy is to work closely with all stakeholders to deliver a broad array of core infrastructure customer and regulatory initiatives.
Our team's execution of that strategy continues to be nothing short of exceptional.
NiSource Gas Distribution operating earnings for the quarter were $8 million compared to a loss of about $41 million in the same period in 2010.
Revenues were up $24 million while operating expenses were about $25 million less than last year primarily as a result of lower depreciation cost and lower depreciation rates at NIPSCO Gas.
On the regulatory front as I noted earlier the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission approved the settlement of Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania's base rate case.
The order authorizes an annual revenue increase of about $17 million effective October 18.
The Commission also approved the new rate design incorporating a higher minimum monthly charge including a fixed customer charge and usage allocation.
On the customer front our Gas Distribution companies continue to introduce expand programs to help customers reduce energy usage and manage their monthly bills.
For example Columbia Gas of Ohio filed a proposal with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio to extend -- expand its broad array of energy efficiency programs for an additional 5 years starting in 2012.
Over the life of the proposed programs EOH estimates customers will save up to $300 million.
And most notably the Gas Distribution teams continue to execute on an industry-leading series of long-term infrastructure modernization and replacement programs.
2011 NGD is on pace to invest at a record level more than $300 million to ensure safe and reliable service.
These investments are part of the more-than-$4-billion modernization program we've placed in motion over the past few years.
As we've highlighted in prior discussions these investments are part of our commitment to do the right thing to ensure continued safe reliable and responsive service to our customers while supporting the NGD's earnings growth on a long-term sustainable basis.
Before we wrap up I want to reiterate that we have a strong financial foundation to support our infrastructure investment-driven business strategy.
That foundation continues to be our commitment to preserving investment-grade credit rating maintain the financial flexibility and liquidity necessary to support disciplined annual capital spend north of $1 billion.
At the end of the third quarter NiSource maintain net available liquidity of over $460 million as well as a stable investment-grade credit rating.
We remain on track to invest more than $1.1 billion of capital expenditures this year.
I also note that we continue to monitor historically-attractive debt capital markets for opportunities to reduce financing costs extend our maturity profile and manage our liabilities; in particular our pension obligations.
And on the equity side of the balance sheet given our strong cash position including the positive impact of bonus depreciation we're now planning to draw upon the proceeds of our 2010 forward-sell equity offering in the second half of next year.
To wrap up as this quarter's and our year-to-date results passed the NiSource team is continuing to build on a strong track record of delivering collaborative regulatory and commercial solutions for our customers while making disciplined low-risk investments that will grow earnings on a sustainable basis.
We are dedicated to maintaining this solid level of performance through the balance of the year to hit the ground running in 2012.
Although much work certainly lies ahead I'm convinced that we have a compelling game plan and the resources and capabilities to continue to deliver on our commitments including our commitment to grow earnings in the 5% zip code on a long-term sustainable basis.
Coupled with a secure attractive dividend one we have to grow you in the not-too-distant future we believe this plan creates compelling proposition for investors.
And as always we will communicate with you and all of our stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest and support of NiSource.
With that Lacey we can now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Thanks a lot for the color kind of Bob on the midstream side.
Good.
Research Division</strong> I'd a couple of questions just to follow-up on that.
So you said 100 000 to 200 000 acres now that's what you have associated with the storage.
Are you still trying to figure out what mineral rights you have? Is that the deal or do you know your mineral rights on that number that 100 000 to 200 000 acres? Typically we have mineral rights associated with that number.
I've got to be clear we are in the midst of extensive legal geotechnical analysis to prove out to establish precisely what we have with regard to the 100 000 to 200 000 acres.
And to emphasize again extensive legal and geotechnical work lies ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When you're thinking about once you find out what exactly it is what are you thinking about in terms of how you deal with it? Should we think about how you handled the Marcellus transaction as something as a blueprint? Well that's certainly one approach but I would say that we are taking through various approaches to best realize the long-term value of the assets and do what is expected and as I mentioned in the prepared remarks we are intently focused on how to ensure we optimize our downstream investment opportunities that are associated with those lease positions.
More to come.
Research Division</strong> Okay absolutely.
And you're building up quite the team in midstream it seems.
And you mentioned you added 1.2 Bcfe capacity in the Marcellus.
And I appreciate the thoughts on the structure given all the activity.
What would change your mind on structure? It seems to me that the opportunity side is growing which is a good thing but something where you could potentially benefit from another type of vehicle frees up capital and you could become even more of this kind of dividend growth company? What are you looking at that would change your mind I guess going forward? Well to your point we believe that our base business plan is extraordinarily strong.
We believe it will be even more strong as we find our minerals position as we complete the development of this midstream commercial team that Jimmy is compiling.
We believe we have a strong strong prospect and to deviate from that strong plan it's going to have -- we're going to have to see something that is extraordinarily compelling.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The final one is anything that could cause the NIPSCO settlement to slip? And could you remind the magnitude that you think potential impacts on earnings? Yes we're literally at the stage of the process where the Commission is deliberating so the hearings the briefing process has been completed so this is in the Commission's office being considered for approval.
As you may recall the parties to the settlement urged the Commission to approve this agreement prior the year-end and we believe that the way that we've handled the briefing -- the very small amount of opposition we have a good shot of getting this approved prior to year-end.
I don't see any blockages at this point.
In terms of ongoing operating earnings lift ballpark number it's about $40 million pretax.
That's what we're looking at in the way of a lift.
Yes I would just remind you tagging onto that that we will be providing 2012 guidance probably in that January timeframe when we announce our earnings for the fourth quarter and the full year and that will include the results of the NIPSCO rate proceeding.
And our next question will come from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Thank you for the update on the Utica every -- it's been on everyone's mind.
Yes absolutely we recognize that.
And again Paul you and everybody else we're going to be timely transparent and it will be meaningful information so stay tuned.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question.
The NGT&amp;S there's $11 million remediation charge.
Is that behind us or do we need to think there could be more of that coming? We believe that it's behind us now; never say never.
There may be minor additions required in reserve over a period of time but we believe that this -- [indiscernible] for all intents and purposes of it yet.
And this relates to historic PCB cleanup a consent decree so this has been placed for many many years and again we believe it's the tail-end of that project.
Research Division</strong> How long do you think it takes discussions with producers to mature? Is this something you could talk about when we potentially meet early next year? Again we are going to keep you up on a consistent basis with those discussions.
We expect over time that we will be in a position to announce infrastructure investment arrangements with producers so it's going to be an ongoing dialogue with the financial community.
Research Division</strong> If you could pick the relationship you're going to have what kind of interaction is there going to be between the infrastructure and the actual molecules? Sorry Paul I'm not following the question.
Research Division</strong> Do you think you're just going to sell the mineral rights outright or do you think there's going to be a more complicated relationship with the producers involved to your infrastructure? It's impossible to speculate on the exact nature of relationships with those.
It's awfully dynamic and it does vary from case to case.
But in my first question-and-answer what I -- maybe the allusion to was at any arrangement we might have around minerals we certainly want to ensure that we're positioned to capture the bulk of the downstream infrastructure investment opportunities that sort of our business investing in infrastructure we want to capture everything we possibly can.
And our next question will come from the line of Yves Siegel with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just to kick to continue -- to continue to kick the can down the road I'm just -- really just 2 questions as it relates to the Utica.
One is how complicated are the legal issues that you need to -- or perhaps the better way to say could you elaborate on the scope of the legal issues that you need to evaluate? Yes the entire oil and gas legal arena is pretty complicated.
I want to put it in that context I'm not sure our leases are extraordinary in one way or another.
But if you're going to gain perspective we're talking about thousands of leases over an extended period of time it involves many many different forms of leases and therefore different language the lease has been operated differently according to the storage.
There are statutory considerations there are common law considerations there are equity considerations so that gives you a bit of the dimensions that are involved when you undertake this sort of an extensive analysis.
And again I would emphasize Yves my point of view this is not really extraordinary when you get into the oil and gas leasing legal arena but our intent is to fully understand what we're on so we need to go through this very methodically and a very thorough manner.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the follow-up to that is who owns the leases though? Would that approve to the NiSource shareholders? Or do some of those leases belong to your -- to the utility customers? These are leases.
We are the lessee and they are held by our operating corporation Columbia Gas Transmission.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got it.
And then lastly not to be nitpicky but I think this is the second time you've discussed a 5% zip code as opposed to saying 3% to 5% in terms of thinking about earnings growth.
Could I suggest that maybe youre in a new zip code? Zip code area code what we've tried to be consistent about we've been saying to the finance community if we can sustain a -- annual CapEx spend at $1 billion or so we would be at the upper part of the 3% to 5% range.
This is now the second year that we've spent $1 billion.
Certainly next year we would like to be a bit north of that.
So we do believe that we are at a bit of a different zip code so let's call it 5% though for the time being.
And our next question will come from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Now you've said -- all right so not to again beat a dead horse but one other question I wanted you to go just with -- and this was really more of a clarification and it may make sort of an overlap but when you mentioned the 100 000 to 200 000 acres I guess I was trying to figure out because we have those geotechnical and legal issues to work through are those -- is any one single issue creating an upper or lower bound? Meaning do you -- we know we have at least 100 000 acres that might be prospective but maybe there's 200 000 acres that legally we think is free and clear and it is the geotechnical work more so than the legal for instance that's going to be the primary factor in that delta or vice versa? I don't know if there's any more color on that.
The answer is no.
Okay.
And then maybe just one other -- to follow-up on the environmental -- on the pipeline side and just trying to kind of get a sense of the $19 million perhaps in total because there was a couple of other issues wrapped up in that.
What was just related to the -- what you might call embedded personnel -- not the environment not the feberance but just sort of the embedded piece maybe that we should look at as far as recurring? Carl I'm not following your question.
Talking about the core environmental reserve adjustment? Exactly the $11 million of the $19 million and I'm just trying to figure out how much of return beyond the $11 million might we see in third quarter of next year? I will say it's in the $4 million range effects.
And our next question will come from the line of Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Just wondering in what counties do your potential Ohio Utica mineral rights cover? I can't give that to you over the phone and follow-up with Randy Hulen.
We can you a little bit more of the geographical sense on when the storage assets lie.
Inc.</strong> Okay I can follow-up.
Thank you.
Yes just do that offline.
And our next question will come from the line of Andy Levi with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of a follow-up to the last question.
Can you give us some idea -- the middle of the state where most of the acreage is at State of Ohio I should say [indiscernible] Appalachia Ohio Flordia broad geographic locations? I would say -- yes it tends to be midwestern part of Ohio to the Eastern border is what -- where these facilities are.
We can make available the Columbia Gas Transmission map and on that map you will see storage fields compressors stations and the like and that will give you a sense -- a general sense of where our facilities are.
That's readily available.
But as I mentioned in our clear [ph] of questions I would caution you not to extrapolate too much at this point because it would be pure extrapolation and involve a lot of speculation.
But we can clearly -- we can show you where the facilities are situated.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess I'm sorry because I'm on a train but I guess you said they're basically located or focused on where your storage facilities are? Is that kind of the way to look at it? That's correct yes.
If you look at where our storage fields are sited that typically is where the lease is up.
That's where the leases are in fact.
And our next question will come from the line of Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On this -- on the specific storage fields in Ohio are you -- I mean if it is still possible to lease acreage on top of those storage fields or do you have to keep those storage fields sort of separate from -- if acreage have to be kind of away from those storage fields so you don't have to [indiscernible] reservoirs of some of those fields? Yes you're getting way beyond my area of expertise but one of the key considerations when you do your work around those the assessment is we have to protect the integrity of the lease operations.
That's first and foremost because you go through the geotechnical analysis the operating analysis maintain the integrity of the [indiscernible].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you remind us a little bit of what exactly you guys did in the Marcellus? I know you leased some amount of acreage there from mineral rights or from leases you had in that particular area.
Can you remind on what -- the negotiation you had with the -- with developers and the producers in that area what came out of that facility can I get an idea? Yes.
We...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kind of what take place going forward? Yes we leased about 135 000 acres.
Typically the transactions involved an upfront bonus payment and we retained a 1/16 royalty if you will in production.
In some cases we may have had rights to proceeds from liquids a portion of proceeds.
So that was the general structure of these arrangements and the counter-parties involved Chesapeake CNX and Range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what would you say the contribution to earnings is from those leases that you guys put in place a while ago? Ballpark royalty and any proceeds roughly $10 million pretax.
This has been what I said a while earlier in the call our intent and interest is investing in facilities downstream.
We considered these leases as being alignment of interest so that we could again reap the ability to invest downstream as opposed to the primary interest in creating a revenue stream.
It's a nice thing to have but our intent was to align ourselves with CNX Chesapeake and Range in the Marcellus region.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess you've mentioned that you have a map on the storage fields that we've seen some of that but from what your understanding is of what producers have put out there in terms of what's in the so-called liquids-rich sort of region of the Utica? I mean do you have an idea of kind of this storage fields sit in that window or is it mostly in the drag-us window? We're assessing that and again I alluded to this earlier the producers are still in the midst of delineating that region and I think we've seen some notional delineation but I think what's notable is the level of drilling activity in Ohio has still been very very small.
There have been only a dozen or so wells that many drilled in Ohio and it hasn't been expansive in terms of geographical coverage.
From our perspective we are very very early in the stages of -- to understand what we've got.
And our next question will come from the line of Gabriele Sorbara with Caris &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just another Utica question I realize it does is very early in determining the acreage that perspective for the play but can you provide some thoughts on maybe how you guys plan on getting this -- creating value from this asset? I realize you hired some new key people.
Did they play a role in kind of determining your options in the Utica? Absolutely.
It's going to be Jamie Stayton and his midstream team coupled with legal and geotechnical advisors that will number one identify what we have and develop the strategy to best optimize position and then begin to plan in executing the strategy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would you ever consider bringing in the rig? Or is it something you would farm out to JV ultimately.
Just general business philosophy is that we are -- we're not a commodity business we're a fee-for-infrastructure investment-driven company so we don't anticipate participating in production and commodity sorts of activities.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
Thank you all for your interest and your support.
We'd certainly appreciate and we look forward to chatting with you in the not-too-distant future.
Have a good day and good weekend.
Thanks.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carissa and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I will now turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed.
Thank you Carissa and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011 and to provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on our website at nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
For today's agenda we'll review a few 2011 highlights that demonstrate the continued strength of NiSource's business strategy and our commitment to building shareholder value.
We'll then spend some time discussing each of our 3 business units' performance.
And before opening the line to your questions we'll discuss our 2012 financial outlook and our strategic priorities.
Starting on Slide 3 in the supplemental deck as we noted in this morning's earnings release for NiSource 2011 was a year of significant achievement groundbreaking performance and industry-leading growth in delivering shareholder value.
For the fifth year in a row the NiSource team met its financial commitments.
Specifically in 2011 we delivered earnings of $1.35 per share non-GAAP at the top of our guidance range for the year and I would add right on top of the consensus estimate for the year.
We also delivered 40% total shareholder return significantly outperforming the broader market in utility indices for the third consecutive year.
In fact NiSource's 2011 performance ranked first among all companies in the Dow Jones utility index.
Driving this consistent increase in value is our balanced strategy of executing on stakeholder-focused commercial and regulatory initiatives paired with disciplined and accretive capital investments.
In 2011 those capital investments exceeded $1.1 billion.
In a few moments I'll provide a high-level overview of our $1.4 billion 2012 capital program.
This record high program is a testament to our deep inventory of investment opportunities across each of our core business units and our solid financial foundation.
I would suggest that the primary takeaway for 2011 is that the NiSource team has once again demonstrated its commitment focus and solid execution which has positioned us to step up our game a notch or 2 in 2012 as we continue to create value for our customers investors and other key stakeholders.
With that backdrop let's now take a closer look at our 2011 results starting with our financial highlights on Slide 4.
As you can see we delivered 2011 net operating earnings non-GAAP of about $378 million or $1.35 per share compared to $1.22 per share in 2010.
And our operating earnings for the year increased from about $915 million in 2010 to over $961 million.
As I suggested earlier these results reflect the core strength of our business plan the focus of our team as well as continued signs of resilience in some of our key markets.
On a GAAP basis our net operating earnings per share for the year were $1.08.
As noted on Schedules 1 and 2 to our earnings release the most significant GAAP to non-GAAP reconciling item was the $54 million call premium on our successful $250 million debt tender offer which was completed in the fourth quarter.
Turning to our individual business unit results let's start in Indiana with our electric business as summarized on Slide 5.
For the year NIPSCO electric reported operating earnings of $203 million compared to $217 million in 2010.
Revenues were down about $0.5 million primarily due to decreased residential and commercial margins and lower environmental cost recovery.
Operating expenses were up about $13 million primarily due to higher employee and administrative expenses and outside service costs.
By far the most significant highlight for the year was the settlement of NIPSCO's landmark electric rate case and the approval of that settlement by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission or IURC in December.
The near unanimous settlement approved by the IURC notably without modifications sets the stage for ongoing investments in customer service reliability and environmental initiatives and positions NIPSCO for long-term earnings growth.
This balanced outcome provides significant opportunities to continue building economic vitality and environmental sustainability in Northern Indiana.
Another recent development for NIPSCO is a significant growth project that's part of a multistate effort to strengthen the electric transmission system in the Midwest.
The project includes an investment of approximately $270 million in a new 100-mile 345-kV transmission project in Northern Indiana.
Scheduled to be in service during the latter part of the decade it is 1 of 17 major new transmission system improvements authorized by the Midwest Independent System Operator or MISO.
On the environmental front steady progress continued on significant environmental upgrades at NIPSCO's Schahfer generating station.
That work remains on schedule and on budget.
As youll recall the Schahfer improvements are part of the NIPSCO environmental investment stream of approximately $850 million over the next 6 to 8 years.
Along with the significant customer programs launched in 2011 these projects are helping to strengthen system reliability customer service environmental and community quality again while providing stable earnings growth for NIPSCO.
On the customer front I'd also note that NIPSCO continues to improve its J.D.
Power ratings.
Based on the most recent wave surveying residential and natural gas customers NIPSCO is ahead of the Midwest average for overall customer satisfaction.
Similar improvements have been made in the electric survey.
Let's now take a look at NiSource Gas Transmission and Storage or NGT&amp;S operations that are highlighted on Slide 6.
From a financial perspective NGT&amp;S generated operating earnings of about $360 million during 2011 compared to approximately $377 million in 2010.
Notably net revenues were up about $51 million driven by a number of growth projects at NGT&amp;S as well as the impact of new rates under a Columbia Gulf base rate case settlement that became effective in May 2011.
Operating expenses were up about $67 million in 2011 primarily due to our lower -- large pension contributions and increase in environmental reserve.
On the heels of a solid year NGT&amp;S' CEO Jimmy Staton and team are intently focused on developing and deploying a robust comprehensive strategy for meeting customer needs and maximizing the value of our extensive pipeline and storage assets including our very attractive position in the Marcellus and Utica shale production regions.
For 2012 we expect to invest about $430 million in NGT&amp;S a 43% increase over 2011.
More than half of the program will be targeted at value-adding growth opportunities in and around the shale plays.
To that last point the team is off to a great start.
One unfolding project in NiSource midstream includes a $145 million investment in 90 miles of pipeline facilities in Western Pennsylvania.
This project will have initial capacity of about 300 000 dekatherms per day and provide interconnects with multiple interstate pipelines.
A definitive agreement with a major Marcellus producer is expected by the end of the first quarter.
And work on the project which is expected to be placed in service in late 2012 has already begun.
Millennium Pipeline also is progressing on plans to add more than 12 000 horsepower of compression to its system in Orange County New York responding to increased demand for transportation services driven by shale production.
Pending FERC approval the new compressor station represents an investment of nearly $45 million for the partnership.
The project which is anticipated to be in service in November 2012 will increase Millennium's delivery capabilities at its interconnection with Algonquin Gas Transmission to 675 000 dekatherms per day.
We're also making good progress on our work to define and leverage our mineral rights position in the Utica shale area.
On our last quarterly call I mentioned that we were engaged in an assessment of our storage leases in the Utica region to determine whether they would support potential production activities.
That review has been completed and has confirmed our estimate of 100 000 to 200 000 prospective acres.
As with the case for our Marcellus storage leases we anticipate a ratification process will be undertaken to ensure the ability to use current drilling technology such as horizontal drilling on the Utica leases.
Based on our previous experience we don't expect that process to present any significant obstacles.
I also mentioned on our last call that an important part of the assessment process involves the definition of the Utica shale play from a geotechnical perspective.
In that regard while there has been limited drilling activity in Utica to date most observers expect the pace to accelerate in 2012 especially in the so-called wet areas of the play.
Needless to say we'll be following this activity closely and will incorporate it into our overall mineral strategy.
In the near term we're focused on our acreage in the eastern wet portion of the Utica.
And as we speak NGT&amp;S is actively engaged in discussions with a number of parties regarding possible approaches and arrangements to optimize the value of our acreage position.
We expect those discussions to mature over the coming months and of course we'll keep you updated as things develop.
With regard to our acreage moving westward into the play we would expect our timing to correspond generally to the drilling development and delineation taking place in those areas.
Finally I'd emphasize that as we develop our approach and options our focus will be on the opportunities that enhance the long-term value of our assets and create sustainable shareholder value.
Before leaving NGT&amp;S I want to touch on one other potential opportunity that's the possibility of a long-term system modernization program designed to enhance the reliability and flexibility of our Columbia Gas Transmission system as well as to respond to anticipated regulatory requirements.
We currently estimate that such a program could involve an investment of approximately $4 billion over a 10- to 15-year period.
Similar to the modernization programs in place at our gas utilities such a program could provide numerous customer environmental and economic benefits while at the same time supporting ongoing rate base and earnings growth.
More to come on this later this year as we continue initial discussions with our customers and other key stakeholders.
Let's now turn to our Gas Distribution group discussed on Slide 7.
NiSource Gas Distribution operating earnings for the year were about $439 million compared to about $343 million during 2010.
Net revenues were up about $31 million in 2010 primarily reflecting the impact of our ongoing infrastructure investments and regulatory activity.
Operating expenses were $65 million less than 2010 primarily as a result of depreciation reductions provided under the 2010 NIPSCO gas rate settlement.
Our NGD teams continue to execute on an industry-leading series of long-term infrastructure modernization and replacement programs.
For 2011 we invested nearly $320 million in these programs to ensure safe and reliable service.
In 2012 we'll continue at a similar pace as part of our $4 billion-plus modernization program.
On the regulatory front as mentioned in our last update the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission issued a final order in Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania's base rate case on October 14 authorizing an annual increase of $17 million.
The commission also authorized a new residential rate design with a higher minimum monthly charge including a fixed customer charge and usage allowance.
And a bit of an update on Pennsylvania House Bill 1294 which just last week unanimously passed the Senate as amended and is now back in the House.
Passage is expected as early as the end of this month.
And in November Columbia Gas Virginia received regulatory approval of its application under Virginias SAVE Act for accelerated recovery of certain infrastructure modernization investments.
Over the next 5 years we estimate that CGV will invest over $100 million under this program.
On the customer front our gas distribution companies continued to introduce and expand programs to help customers reduce energy usage and manage their monthly bills.
In December Columbia Gas of Ohio received approval from the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio to extend and expand its broad array of energy efficiency programs.
Over the life of the programs customers will save up to $300 million.
Before wrapping up I'd like to take a moment to touch on our financial profile and liquidity position.
As I've discussed in the past the foundation for our investment-driven growth platform across NiSource is a disciplined well-executed financing strategy.
Looking at Slide 8.
In 2011 Steve Smith and his team further strengthened our financial profile through a series of strategic transactions designed to reduce financing cost extend our debt maturity profile and manage liabilities including in particular our pension.
These transactions included issuing a total of $900 million of long-term notes completing a $250 million debt tender offer launching a $500 million commercial paper program and renewing our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility for an additional 4 years.
These transactions also provide an opportunity to make a very cost-effective accelerated contribution to our pension plans to help manage future pension expenses.
Our total pension contribution in 2011 was $400 million which serves to place the plans on solid footing going forward.
We've also maintained a strong cash position ending the year with $364 million in excess liquidity.
Given this very strong liquidity position and as we suggested on our last quarterly call we don't plan to draw on our 2010 forward equity sale until the third quarter of 2012.
I'd also note that NiSource's stable investment-grade credit ratings were affirmed by Moody's and Fitch during the fourth quarter and we expect to receive a similar report from Standard &amp; Poor's in the near future.
Last but not least a few comments on our 2012 earnings guidance and a bit more perspective on our record high 2012 capital program that's summarized on Slide 9.
NiSource's non-GAAP earnings outlook for 2012 is $1.40 to $1.50 per share.
The midpoint of the range represents a 7%-plus increase over our 2011 earnings.
As I noted earlier helping fuel this and future growth will be our record $1.4 billion capital investment program.
That program includes investments of about $430 million at NGT&amp;S $530 million in our gas distribution business and $410 million at our NIPSCO electric business.
Although the plan reflects an increased investment of almost 25% over 2011 the largest increases for 2012 are at NGT&amp;S and our electric business representing a broad and deepening array of accretive value-added growth and environmental projects.
These and other investments will serve to enhance the long-term value of our assets for the benefit of our customers shareholders and other key stakeholders.
As we continue to execute on our investment-driven business strategy I can assure you that we'll remain true to our other core financial commitments: to preserve our stable investment-grade credit rating and to offer an attractive secure and in the not-too-distant future growing dividend.
So as our 2011 results and 2012 outlook attest the NiSource team is continuing to build on a strong track record of delivering collaborative regulatory and commercial solutions while making disciplined investments that will grow earnings on a sustainable basis.
With full support of our Board of Directors I'm convinced we have a compelling game plan and the resources and capabilities to continue to look to deliver on our commitments including our commitment to grow earnings at about 5% on a long-term sustainable basis.
As always we'll communicate with you and all of our stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest and support of NiSource.
Carissa we can now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> A few questions.
How many 10 3/4 notes are left? Are they totally defeased? No they're not Paul.
This is Steve.
There's approximately $100 million or so of those notes left.
Research Division</strong> And what are the plans around those? They're going to be held till maturity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your 2012 guidance if we take '11 guidance midpoint to midpoint that's 11.5% growth.
How do you reconcile that with your advertised 2% to 5% objective? Well we've mentioned on several occasions Paul that we certainly expected a bump a significant bump from the resolution of the NIPSCO electric rate case that goes into -- it has actually gone into effect.
It will hit full run rate about the middle of this year.
That establishes the new earnings base.
And that from that point assuming we invest at $1 billion plus that will set the stage for ongoing growth at 5% a year.
Research Division</strong> And the $1.4 billion of '12 CapEx can you break that out into kind of growth versus maintenance? That's about 60-40.
About 60% 62% of that is growth new business tracker driven and the balance is traditional age and condition.
That's a rough cut Paul.
It may cut a little bit more precise but roughly 60-40.
Research Division</strong> And when do you expect the $4 billion that you kind of unveiled today to start flowing? Just to make sure we're on same page we mentioned $4 billion of inventory gas distribution and that's the bare-steel replacement program and that's 10 to 15 years.
We also mentioned that we're beginning discussions with our stakeholders at Columbia Gas Transmission around a modernization program.
We calibrate that to be about $4 billion.
If we are able to reach an agreement with our customers or if we prefer the FERC rate case approach we expect that spend to cover 10 15 years.
We expect the spend in around that program to begin in 2013.
Research Division</strong> '13? And do you expect that this will be primarily negotiated? Or do you think youll have to go with the FERC route? Well the NiSource approach is to collaborate with a broad group of stakeholders and strike a settlement so that's the preferred approach.
Obviously the FERC rate case approach is also out there.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Maresca of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things first on NGT&amp;S and then on Utica.
So you have a big increase in CapEx this year and you talked about intently focused on customer needs.
And a couple of things on the supplemental slides you got $430 million of CapEx planned for '12 between the new Pennsylvania Marcellus project Millennium and Rimersburg you kind of get to $200 million.
So I guess what makes up that GAAP of $194 million to $430 million plan? And then bigger picture what are customers looking for right now in the Marcellus and Utica? And what do you think the size of this opportunity is maybe over the next 2 to 3 years for you guys? Yikes that's a lot of question.
Let me give a shot at it then we can fill in.
You can just keep us on track.
Let me go through the CapEx a little bit and let me start with ongoing age and condition.
For 2012 about $175 million is age and condition so integrity reliability age and condition so that's the base.
On top of it then you add the $145 million for the just announced Marcellus transmission project.
You add on top of that the Millennium project and Rimersburg and then the balance is growth that we will announce -- growth projects that we'll announce over the balance of the year.
Okay? Then you also asked about what we're seeing in the marketplace and the Marcellus? Research Division</strong> And Utica just...
And Utica.
We still see robust activity.
And you've seen the recent producer discussions or announcements that they're going to focus on the wet.
We're well positioned for that.
Again we continue to see quite a bit of demand.
I think that the announcement we're making this morning is representative of the sort of demand we're seeing.
It's in the wet region.
It's gathering.
It's processing.
And as this project reflects providing interconnections to as many outlets as possible that's the sort of activity we're seeing.
I also add that we mentioned this morning discussions that we're having in the eastern portion of the Utica with parties that are interested in some of our acreage but they too are interested not only in the acreage but the downstream investments in facilities to get that gas processed and to market.
But that's the nature that's the color of the sort of discussions and activity that we see in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess I mean size-wise I mean you're spending $430 million this year.
Do you think that's -- there's upside to that over -- on an annual basis? Yes.
As I suggested it maybe was more implicit than explicit Jimmy Staton and team have developed I think a very very robust strategy that's going to focus on leveraging our minerals position but also the footprint in and around both the Marcellus and the Utica.
And I think you're seeing the beginning of that -- the execution of that strategy but also suggest that they're looking at aggressively marketing the balance of the Columbia Gas Transmission and Columbia Gulf Facility and you're going to see announcements evidencing the activity around expansions of those core systems.
And then last but not least we did suggest this.
And I've answered Paul Ridzon we're aggressively pursuing opportunities to modernize Columbia Gas Transmission.
So long-winded answer theres considerable upside to the spends that we're announcing today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final one thanks for more of the detail on the Utica.
Can you discuss just the shape of these discussions that you said you're going on with certain parties in terms of how this possibly would be structured? What are the -- what's the other side of the table looking for and just a framework? Yes I can only speak in generalities and appreciate the sensitive nature of all these discussions.
Let me just give you our perspective though.
We have an acreage position.
We'd like to exploit that acreage position.
But frankly we're interested in adding additional acreage that could be dedicated to downstream facilities that we would construct and operate.
So again we want to use our foothold to expand and garner additional production that can be supportive of downstream investments.
So that's our emphasis.
That's our primary focus as opposed to reaping upfront dollars if you will.
On the other side of the table frankly they want their gas to get to market.
They want to get it as far downstream as they can.
They want to ensure that the gas and the liquids will flow every single day and that's their primary interest.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan of Visium.
Can I just Bob just going from the growth rate that you enunciated this morning and confirmed can we look at that growth rate going forward from the 2012 base on an average of like 5% over a 5-year time frame? Will that be right to look at it from that going forward from this year? That's correct.
Consider 2012 as the base.
And again if we're able to sustain a CapEx program north of $1 billion the CAGR ought to be 5% plus.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I know you guys touched on this I think in the past earnings call.
But your operating expense and -- your operations and maintenance expenses at the Gas Transmission and Storage Operation is pretty high versus last year and it was -- even on a quarterly basis and on a yearly basis too so...
Hey can I interrupt you? I just want to caution you when you look at these numbers you really need to drill down in the NGT&amp;S operating expenses.
I mentioned in the remarks that one of the key drivers comes from the pension contribution -- we made this accelerate pension contribution and it hits the NGT&amp;S pension expense because they're on a cash basis for rate making.
So it's a $30 million-plus hit -- $36 million hit to their O&amp;M.
Research Division</strong> So that the -- in the quarter in the fourth quarter you had a $36 million hit from the contribution.
You said it was a $250 million contribution to the pension plan.
Thats correct.
For the year it was $400 million but...
Incrementally it was $250 million.
Yes.
So you have that.
You also would see an environmental reserve increase or hit that stems from a historic PCB cleanup settlement that we have with our customers and regulators.
And that really is a onetime sort of hit because of that settlement and the need to ensure that we optimize that settlement.
Research Division</strong> And that was in the quarter too? That was in third quarter.
Research Division</strong> And how much was that exactly? About $30 million.
Research Division</strong> $30 million.
Okay.
So are we done with all these sort of onetime sort of items or you expect this to continue on? Well clearly across all of NiSource we've worked long and hard to deal with a vast array of issues.
And weve tried to address everything that was on the table and get as much behind us this year and I include the NIPSCO regulatory situation in that basket.
And so what clearly the intent is to just be as clean and efficient and growing as we possibly can in 2012 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you guys fully funded now in your pension plan? We're at about 82% as of year-end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you guys anticipate any more contributions this year to your pension plan? We're not anticipating any contributions in 2012 as a result of our accelerated contribution we made at the end of the year.
Having said that I would say Steve and team are opportunistic.
So theyre continuing to review the situation.
So I would just caution you as you look through the results the fundamentals the revenue and core cost fundamentals are rock solid for 2011 but you do need to look at some of these special items that I've mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay sure.
And the $4 billion modernization plan at the pipeline business is this mostly directed towards storage or the actual pipeline transportation infrastructure? It's the latter so it's integrity reliability flexibility of the core system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So these would all be sort of revenue-generating sort of enhancements obviously I mean or would it be -- when you say Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Now given -- if I look at your guys sources and uses for cash this year obviously to fund your CapEx and maturity needs some of that is coming from your equity forward sale.
Is that correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> As I think about your kind of CapEx funds going forward because if you had this $4 billion modernization plan along with all the other growth projects you have it seems that you're going to need some level of equity to fund some of these projects going forward.
So the question becomes is have you guys changed your sort of philosophy on the MLP? We've not changed our philosophy.
We continue to look at it very closely.
And obviously if CapEx needs increase we're going to look at all forms of funding of those needs.
So it's still a relevant consideration but one that we're not inclined to go forward at this point.
I would also suggest this that in terms of equity we believe that we're in good shape for the next several years noted that we're going to delay the draw to the third quarter of this year on the forward equity.
So I would suggest not jumping to any conclusions that we need equity quickly.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst of BMO Capital.
A lot of my questions actually have been hit and touched on but I would like to maybe just make sure I better understand a few things and one actually you were going over the pension expense.
And Steve I may have misheard this number but did you say that in 2011 there was an incremental $250 million of pension expense over 2010? Yes we made a total of $400 million of contribution to the pension.
The $250 million of that $400 million that we made in the fourth quarter was an accelerated contribution not incremental.
So we accelerated the contributions that we anticipated making in 2012.
We accelerated those into the fourth quarter of 2011.
And so is there -- within the 2012 versus 2011 is there a way to think of it in terms of O&amp;M as far as the amount of pension expense in the actual O&amp;M line that will not be recurring just to make sure we're kind of expecting the right number? What I would say is there's a lot of puts and takes around the pension.
For example our asset return in 2011 was flattish.
The discount rate associated with the liability was 40 basis points lower than last year so it went down to 4.6%.
So there are headwinds coming at us as a result of the actuarial assumptions in the pension.
And there will be a benefit.
But in terms of the guidance range of $1.40 to $1.50 there are a lot of puts and takes for 2012.
But within the context of the guidance range we've given you we feel like we've managed any movement there or exposure around the pension assets.
Okay.
Carl let me just add.
I do believe that with this contribution and the way we've managed the fund in general that we have the expense level -- we've got a good handle on the expense level not only for '12 but going forward.
As you know we continue on the rate regulated side of the house.
We continue to try to use trackers deferrals and the like to deal with any problems that might occur.
Okay.
No I appreciate that.
Second question just Bob could you refresh my memory as far as the review on the Utica shale acreage? We're saying when the review is completed we're still holding a range though of 100 to 200.
Are there contingencies around why it's one number versus another number and didn't know if you could refresh our memory as far as how much at this point you believe is in the wet window for instance? Yes you really hit the nail on the head.
The uncertainty of the geotechnical viability and attractiveness of the acreage that is in the oily portion of the play that's where the uncertainty is.
And I mentioned in my prepared remarks we're seeing an increase in test drilling in that more oily window.
We've read announcements of drilling activity in that window.
But to really narrow that range we need more definition in that portion of the play.
And the majority of our acres tend to be in that portion of the play Carl.
So that's why the range relatively speaking is a bit large and will remain a bit large until we see additional information in that oily window.
That's very helpful.
And as far as what we know right now that's in the -- more of the NGL portion is there a defined number of that on the eastern side? I'm not sure I got your question Carl.
Could you help me on that? Generally I guess I think of it as we're going east to the Utica I guess I'm thinking -- perhaps I'm on this that it's going from oily to the NGLs on the eastern side.
And I didn't know if that -- if there was -- well I can come back offline so no need to do that here.
One last if I could please just back on the $4 billion potential modernization of the pipelines.
And I guess is there any indication that you have gotten from shippers at this point from a receptivity standpoint? Because I guess as I'm thinking about that this would be a new model in the industry would it not? I mean we haven't really seen either tractors put on by FERC or something like this on a long-term basis.
And I was hoping maybe that if there isn't any early color what the sales pitch is if you will to anchor shippers to sign something that would be perhaps 10 15 years in length.
Yes very early in the process.
As we get towards the middle of the year I can give you more color.
But I will say this: We recognize that the shippers need to see benefits from a program of this nature.
So as you might expect flexibility reliability integrity are the key elements of the program that we're asking them to consider.
So that's the pitch but a little bit too early to discuss receptivity.
I just think intellectually operationally politically however you may term it I think there's a lot of appeal to the program.
And I'd also add many of these stakeholders are dealing with these sorts of issues downstream of the city gate.
So they certainly understand where we're coming from and recognize the need.
Now the challenge is to craft that balanced package that makes sense for them and for ourselves.
And your next question comes from the line of Yves Siegel of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> If I could just circle back on a couple of things.
Number one on the Utica you hear that acreage is going for $15 000 or more per acre so I'm just trying to figure out how to try to handicap what the ultimate value could be to NiSource.
And I appreciate the fact that you just said that you don't see an upfront payment but you have these really large numbers out there and I'm trying to figure out how big a game changer if it's going to be a game changer for you.
Is there any way that maybe you could sort of help frame it for me again? Before I do that I just want to be clear.
I didn't mean to suggest that we're not interested in upfront payments.
That's only one of the many considerations as we consider structuring deals.
And so I just want to be clear upfront payments could be part of the calculus as we structure deals going forward not necessarily priority one for us but it's clearly a key consideration.
I'm afraid I'm not going to be able to help you on quantifying value per acre.
We've seen the big blowout numbers.
We've also seen numbers that are lower and I would suggest it's going to be lease by lease geographical window by geographical window to get precise numbers.
Otherwise I think it's going to be a swag for the time being.
We do though -- having said that we do believe this is a game changer for us in the industry in a lot of different respects.
Number one as we suggested our acreage position we believe can be leveraged to add additional acreages for downstream projects.
So we believe it's a foothold.
We believe it's a foothold that can spawn significant downstream in investment.
Again I can't help you quantify that but if you look at the potential volumes that we're talking about and the need for processing and takeaway capacity it's a game changer.
It's a game changer for us for Dominion for other people that have a significant footprint in the area.
I also suggested earlier that downstream on our core system that we believe there are significant opportunities because of this gas supply region developing right in the heart of our system.
Again I can't help you on quantification but we know that we're going to have -- you take the estimate 13 BCF a day potentially.
When this is built out maybe even north of that hitting the systems hitting our system and others it's going to have to go somewhere.
Certainly implies a significant amount of downstream capacity expansions and reconfiguration.
Sorry I can't be more definitive but I would suggest you need to look beyond just the dollars per acre sort of calculation to what does it imply for the facility expansions downstream.
Research Division</strong> And to the last point would a lot of that infrastructure be out of rate base? Or would it be tangential to your...
We believe it can be both.
Further you go downstream the more likely it could be both.
The closer to the wellhead certainly it's going to be predominantly if not entirely producer supported.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess going back to the one of the earlier questions when you think about cash flow and financing do you have a rough ballpark of what you think deferred taxes will look like in 2012? Well as we've said -- this is Steve.
We've said that the benefits from the legislation that was passed not too long ago that we would see an excess of $500 million of deferred tax benefit.
So that is going to come to us over the next couple of years.
We'll also get tax deductibility from the pension contributions made in 2011 as well so fairly healthy deferred tax benefits over the next several years.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And my last question is just sort of getting back to the thought of financing all of this growth.
What is the thought process in terms of -- when you think of the amount of spending is it thought that 2012 -- well I guess the way to maybe ask it the $430 million that you've identified thus far in the transportation segment could that be substantially different moving forward or any sort of project announcements will probably hit more in the 2013 and beyond time frame? My sense is that it is in the 2013 and beyond.
And what weve attempted to suggest is that the number that we announced today the CapEx number could go up but it is going to be dependent on the development of projects be it midstream projects or what I'm calling downstream projects.
And another key variable if you will is how do we proceed on the modernization of Columbia Gas Transmission.
So those are the key sensitivities that toggle the $1.4 billion that we announced today toggles it up or toggles it down.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Dobson of Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Drill down one more time on Utica and just really a question on timing.
Obviously you've got ongoing discussions and I'm sure these have a fluidity of nature to them.
When do you think you'd have something to announce? Related to the discussions we're having now in the eastern portion of the Utica I think we're in a window that could be 60 to 90 days.
I think it's that quick.
We've been at it for a while.
And certainly we'd like to reach closure sooner versus later.
Having said that we don't have a clock ticking.
We just want to structure a good deal.
And the western portion of the Utica as I've suggested it's going to take more time to develop.
And we are going to be dependent on what producers and developers do in that region to give you more definition.
Research Division</strong> Right right right exactly.
Okay.
That's perfect.
And similar on the NGT&amp;S modernization I think in response to an earlier question you sort of said more info later this year.
Is that -- and maybe confirm that for me but then also is that the outgrowth of your discussion with shippers? It seems like awfully fast timing actually for something that would be potentially this large.
Yes.
Well I've suggested midyear for more definition.
In certain respects albeit groundbreaking these discussions are relatively straightforward.
I think folks have a good understanding of what the dimensions of the [indiscernible] might be.
And so from that point again the issues tend to narrow not to suggest it's easy or without complication because it is.
We think those discussions can move at a relatively decent pace and we can have a degree of clarity on whether we have a program or whether we don't by midyear.
If we don't then we have to consider our other FERC options.
So again we're going to move with relative dispatch on this one.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's great.
And then switching to financing outside of the equity forward which expires in September so it sounds like youll close that out at the end of the third quarter.
So what else do we need to do this year? I know weve got a maturity in the fourth quarter or so.
But what else given the $1.4 billion of CapEx do we need to do outside of the equity forward? Yes all we have planned Jay is the $500 million debt offering in the latter half of 2012.
And again we continue to like the longer end of the curve based on what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Who wouldn't? Speaking on that topic any more on the liability management front? I mean I know these things are always somewhat fluid and has as much to do with who holds your debt as anything else but any more on that opportunity? Yes I mean I would say we've been pretty successful over the last couple of years putting out some long-term paper and our weighted average life of our debt portfolio is now approaching 9-plus years.
We feel pretty good about that.
It's remarkable And our weighted average cost of our debt portfolio was around 6%.
And we feel like we've made some good progress.
Made some really good progress.
Research Division</strong> No that's fantastic.
And the last one Bob you mentioned the dividend.
And I think when I went back to the transcript from the third quarter you might have given some folks some head fakes around dividend which caused people to maybe react a little bit when a couple of days ago you announced a flat dividend.
So maybe if you would just help folks frame that.
I'm not asking for exactly when you're going to do it.
But certainly given a $1.4 billion CapEx all of this CapEx in front of you there's a bit of a balancing act you and the board have to go through to say what are we going to do on the dividend versus what are we going to do.
And maybe if you could think of that in the context of the long-term earnings growth rate you've advertised in that 5% range.
Yes.
Around the dividend growth I mentioned that the predicate to that was really twofold.
Number one was we needed to work our way through the NIPSCO electric rate case and resolution of that case.
We can check off that box for December.
The other key predicate was we needed to grow into a reasonable payout ratio.
And with the outlook we've given you this year we are in fact I think in a reasonable payout window.
So literally what the board is doing and they kicked off this process last year they're considering where to head on the dividend.
And as you might guess management has suggested that an appropriate payout policy would be between 60% and 70%.
I've mentioned that before.
So the board is considering policy.
They're considering initial amount in the growth rate for the dividend and they're considering timing.
Not only when we might do it this year but when we might do it every year after this year.
So that's what the board is considering.
They're engaged in a process that will be frankly a brisk process.
This isnt a 12-month study sort of process.
So I would suggest that it's on the docket.
It's being actively considered.
And you know what management's bias and I would say the board's bias is we want to begin growing the dividend ASAP so stay tuned second half of this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But since you're in that 60% to 70% payout we ought to be thinking about that 5% long-term growth rate which although it seems like it's going faster near term it's...
Well I would suggest this: the EPS growth rate of 5%.
A dividend growth rate might be a bit south of that but it would certainly be a strong let's say robust dividend growth rate.
That's where I would expect the board to go.
Let me just add the board and management understands and we believe that a good growing strong dividend is a significant part of our value proposition.
So it's front and center.
It's on the docket.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Levi of Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of the questions were asked.
Just 2 real quick ones on the Utica though.
I guess ones kind of a follow-up from Carl Kirst's question and I don't know if you're going to be able to provide this.
But is there any type of a percent breakdown on the acreage as far as east versus west? The vast majority is west.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But so is that over 60% 70% or you just dont want to go more than that? It's in the zip code that you mentioned.
And let me though be clear central and west.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Central and west.
Central and west.
And if you just look at that map we're in that central and western portion and it's married with our storage positions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how far is that acreage from let's say Chesapeake's announced well results recently in Caroll County? We have one pocket that's in that region broadly defined region.
And then again the majority of the acreage is west of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Becca Followill of U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the pipeline modernization program.
You guys are really the first to announce a big program like this.
And there's a trade-off between maintaining the competitive system and competitive pricing versus the modernization program.
Can you do this in isolation without the rest of the industry doing a program? Or do you need the whole industry to say we're all going to modernize our systems? We believe we can do this without the entire industry necessarily following or doing it in tandem.
And just to kind of your lead-in point Columbia Gas Transmission is very competitive from a rate perspective today.
And we believe with modernization it is very very very competitive in that mode as well.
We don't see it as a competitive threat.
In fact we would suggest that with improved integrity reliability and flexibility the competitive position's enhanced.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spratt of Miller Howard Investments.
Inc.</strong> Back to the mineral rights and trying to monetize them which entity actually owns the title to the leaseholds? And if you were able to monetize or form a deal does the parent get the full benefit? Or is there some regulatory offset or give back? The rights are in a NiSource company called NiSource Energy Ventures Company.
And it's part of if you will NiSource Gas Transmission and Storage or at least its associated with NiSource Gas Transmission and Storage.
By the way bear with my legal technical discussion of this.
I may be off a bit but directionally that's how it's structured and it's not part of the regulated entities.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Golden of JPMorgan.
There's a lot of discussion about increased capital expenditures potential growing the dividend.
And to be frank about it the balance sheet has not had a material improvement in the actual amount of debt.
I understand the tender offers and the rescheduling of the maturity profiles.
And from my perspective that is necessary given your liquidity profile.
But you are still a low BBB credit and the bonds -- your credit within the capital markets trades almost like a junk bond BB rate of credit.
So given the nature of the discussion of the increased CapEx potentially growing the dividend putting that "on the docket " can you offer some type of commentary to your fixed income bondholders about one maintaining an investment-grade rating actually improving the balance sheet and trying to work up from a low investment-grade rating? And I would like to point out your credit rating for a company such as yourself such as a C corp being a distributor and pipeline it is one of the lower credit rating within your peer set.
So can you address those concerns? Sure.
I appreciate the comments and I've got to start out with a comment that I make whenever I meet with any investor or debt holder that our commitment to investment-grade credit ratings is sacrosanct unquestioned unconditional.
We are absolutely 100% committed to that.
We've demonstrated that over the past 7 years that we will do whatever it takes to maintain our investment-grade credit rating.
We mentioned also in our comments today that the credit rating agencies recently reviewed our 5-year plan.
And as you would expect they looked at elements such as CapEx.
They looked at elements such as dividend growth.
And I think if you closely read those reports they feel very good about the business.
I'd also say the credit rating agencies recognized that we're balancing maintaining this investment-grade credit rating as well as addressing our business opportunities be it growth be it requirements to deal with age and condition reliability and integrity.
And I think they've endorsed our project appropriately balancing all of those key considerations.
I'll also mention what credit rating agencies and for that matter debt holders have talked to us about is how your cash metrics look.
And I would suggest I would maintain that over the past 7 years there has been material improvement in the key cash metrics that the rating agencies have been looking at.
So I feel good where we're at on our credit profile.
I think it's an appropriate balance of maintaining an investment-grade credit rating while dealing with opportunities and the needs of the business and we're 100% committed.
Last but not least I recognize that this plan is not a debt paydown plan.
This is a plan to again take advantage of opportunities to improve the underlying business and ensure that those cash metrics are strong and improving.
And so the goal is we want to be a strong BBB- credit rating.
We think that's the correct fit for us and that's the objective.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I had a quick follow-up.
Part of the value proposition is that you're very well positioned to touch these hydrocarbon molecules many times.
Can you kind of just give an overview of how many times you think you can touch them and get paid for doing it? Well we'd like to touch it at the wellhead as it comes out of the wet head.
So we want to gather it.
When appropriate we want to process it.
We also want to if possible touch the liquids.
And then certainly we want to touch the molecules downstream not only on our core Columbia Gas Transmission system but also at the gas distribution level.
So that's the philosophy just optimize the value chain touch the molecules and ensure that we're playing in the region.
We may also want to take the opportunity to though add: We're attempting to deepen the growth inventory across all the business units.
So I hope it's not lost on folks that when you look at NIPSCO for example it has a strong environmental investment portfolio but we believe it too has a modernization portfolio flexibility portfolio and core growth portfolio.
So we're looking at those key elements across all the business units.
Research Division</strong> And what is your opportunity on the processing site? Well we believe that particularly as you look at the Utica all these wet plays are going to require processing.
We believe we have an opportunity to do it ourselves or we believe we have the opportunity to partner with others to provide that service.
Research Division</strong> Would that require capital investment for you to do it? Sure.
Oh yes absolutely.
Anytime we play or touch the molecule more than likely we're going to require capital to provide the facilities to do it.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
Thank you Carissa.
And again thank you all for your interest.
Obviously we had an extended Q&amp;A discussion today.
It demonstrates your interest and I believe your support for NiSource.
So thank you very much and we look forward to talking to you the next time.
Have a good day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2002 -- 2012 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Grant and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
The focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the first quarter of 2012 and to provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on our website at nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this call will be forward-looking and those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'll turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen and good morning and thanks for joining us.
Our agenda today will be crisp to leave plenty of time for questions.
So we'll review our first quarter earnings which continue to be solid sustainable and on track with our 2012 outlook.
In the process we'll touch on key achievements and initiatives in each of our business units progress demonstrating the continued strength of our well established investment-driven growth strategy.
And finally before opening the line to questions I'll touch again on our core financial commitments to investment-grade credit long-term earnings growth and a strong attractive and growing dividend.
Let's start with the first quarter highlights on Slide 3 in the supplemental deck.
As our earnings report reflects our NiSource teams are continuing to build on the positive momentum we generated in 2011.
We delivered first quarter results squarely in line with our plan continued earnings growth from robust regulatory modernization and expansion initiatives and a solid start to our record $1.4 billion capital investment program.
All in all the NiSource team continued to demonstrate its commitment focus and solid execution during the first quarter.
In fact I believe we're well on our way towards upping our game in 2012 as we generate even greater value for our customers investors and other key stakeholders.
With that backdrop let's take a look at our first quarter results starting with our financial highlights on Slide 4.
As you can see we delivered net operating earnings non-GAAP of about $215 million or $0.76 per share for the 3 months ended March 31.
That compares with about $207 million or $0.74 per share for the first quarter of 2011.
Our operating earnings for the quarter grew from about $402 million to more than $435 million compared to the same period in 2011.
As I noted earlier these results are squarely in line with our 2012 earnings outlook.
On a GAAP basis our net income for the quarter was about $194 million.
Schedules 1 and 2 to our earnings release show the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciling items the most significant of which was weather.
Let's now turn to our individual business unit results starting with our NiSource Gas Transmission &amp; Storage or NGT&amp;S operations highlighted on Slide 5.
At NGT&amp;S CEO Jimmy Staton and his team have truly hit the ground sprinting in 2012.
They are developing and deploying a robust comprehensive strategy for modernizing our system meeting customer needs and maximizing the value of our extensive pipeline and storage assets and that includes our very attractive position in the Marcellus and Utica production regions.
From a financial perspective NGT&amp;S grew operating earnings to about $139 million during the first quarter compared to about $118 million for the same period in 2011.
Net revenues were up about $17 million driven by a number of growth projects at NGT&amp;S as well as the impact of new rates under Columbia Gulf base rate settlement that took effect in May 2011.
As you know shale gas development and midstream opportunities are a key focus for our team.
One important 2012 project on that front is our midstream services Big Pine gathering system.
Anchored by a long-term agreement with XTO Energy this 70-mile $150 million project in western Pennsylvania will offer an initial capacity of 425 million cubic feet per day with interconnections to multiple interstate pipelines.
In-service for that project is this December.
Our midstream team also is pursuing opportunities in the liquids-rich portion of the Utica play in eastern Ohio.
These prospects include proposals to provide gathering services as well as cryogenic processing.
In addition on our last quarterly call I mentioned that we were in discussions with a number of parties regarding possible approaches and arrangements to optimize the value of our Utica acreage position.
By way of an update I'm pleased to report that we're now in advanced discussions with an individual producer counterparty regarding the joint venture in this area which would include significant downstream infrastructure investment opportunities.
We hope to be in a position to announce further details regarding this exciting opportunity within the next month or so.
NGT&amp;S also continues to successfully pursue expansion opportunities along our existing pipeline systems.
The $220 million West Side expansion project will transport Marcellus production originating in southwestern Pennsylvania and north central West Virginia to Gulf Coast markets leveraging our Columbia Gulf pipeline.
Building long-term -- binding long-term precedent agreements have been signed with 2 shippers.
Meanwhile our East Side expansion project will connect about 500 000 dekatherms per day of northern Pennsylvania Marcellus production with growing mid-Atlantic markets.
Negotiations with customers for binding transportation agreements are currently underway.
Both of these expansion projects have proposed in-service dates of late 2014.
Another significant Columbia Gas Transmission project took a step forward in March with FERC approval to construct facilities to serve Virginia Electric and Power Company's 1 300 megawatt generation facility under construction in Warren County Virginia.
Our $35 million project will provide up to 250 000 dekatherms per day of long-term firm transportation starting in mid-2014.
To help better accentuate the various investments we're making across NGT&amp;S we've added a new map and projects slides in the appendix of our supplemental slides.
That graphic and information is shown on Slide 9.
I'd urge you to take a close look.
As I noted earlier significant focus for our team is system modernization.
And during the first quarter NGT&amp;S continued a series of discussions with our customers for a comprehensive long-term infrastructure modernization program.
Similar to the programs at our gas utilities this effort will enhance the reliability and flexibility of our pipeline system and ensure continued safe and reliable service.
It'll also generate jobs fuel economic growth and position the company to meet anticipated regulatory requirements.
In total we expect the plan could involve an investment of about $4 billion over a 10- to 15-year period.
Our target is to reach comprehensive agreement with our customers and other stakeholders and submit it to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for approval which we would hope to receive by year's end.
In the event this collaborative approach doesn't bear fruit we nonetheless remain committed to the program and would avail ourselves of the conventional rate case process to recover the costs associated with our investments in a timely fashion.
This focus on modernization at NGT&amp;S and across NiSource is being recognized.
NiSource was front and center on April 20 when U.S.
Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood recognized NiSource for its pipeline infrastructure modernization and replacement investment at a press conference in Pittsburgh.
During the event Secretary LaHood strongly endorsed NiSource's significant long-term commitment to energy infrastructure modernization and the Secretary also announced DOT's commitment to coordinate with other government entities to expedite the regulatory and approval processes in connection with our infrastructure modernization program.
Across NiSource we're committed to being a leader in enhancing America's core energy infrastructure.
These investments help ensure continued reliable and efficient energy delivery provide a foundation for job creation and economic growth across our service territory.
We welcome the DOT's support in facilitating the efficient timely permitting and regulatory review of our modernization programs and we look forward to working together to get the job done.
As you can see our NGT&amp;S team has a diverse mix of new and ongoing projects designed to enhance the long-term value of our assets.
Through its supply and market-driven growth as well as our collaborative approach to system modernization our team is generating long-term customer benefits and ongoing rate base and earnings growth.
Let's now shift to Indiana in our Electric business as summarized on Slide 6.
Our NIPSCO Electric team is advancing an impressive array of initiatives to improve customer service and reliability and to enhance northwest Indiana's environmental and economic sustainability.
Earnings from our electric business were solid and squarely on top of our plan for the quarter with operating earnings of about $48.5 million compared with about $49 million for the same period last year.
Revenues were up about $29 million due to increased margins while operating expenses increased about the same amount largely due to higher employee and administrative expenses planned generation outage costs and MISO fees that are now included in rates.
The cornerstone of NIPSCO's 2012 business agenda is executing on significant environmental investments at our coal-fired generation facilities.
I'm pleased to note that those investments are on plan including a $500 million investment in new scrubbers at our Schahfer Generating Station.
The Schahfer project is the largest in NIPSCO's history and part of a nearly $850 million in new environmental investment at the company over the next 6 to 8 years.
NIPSCO also continued to strengthen its management ranks in the first quarter with the appointment of Kathleen O'Leary to the role of President.
Kathleen who is based in Indianapolis reports to NIPSCO's CEO Jimmy Staton and will lead our regulatory and governmental strategies economic development and stakeholder engagement efforts.
Kathleen brings tremendous industry knowledge and leadership perspective to this key role.
On the customer service front NIPSCO continue to introduce new offerings with the launch of its IN-Charge Electric Vehicle Program.
The program provides a credit for residential electric customers to offset the cost of home-based electric vehicle charging systems.
The pilot program also provides free overnight vehicle charging.
The team's laser-like focus on customer service is paying off.
As I noted on our last earnings call NIPSCO continues to improve its J.D.
Power ratings.
Based on the most recent wave of residential gas customers NIPSCO remains ahead of the Midwest average for overall customer satisfaction and similar improvements have been made in the electric survey.
Again great work at NIPSCO as the team continuously improves customer service and reliability while investing in long-term economic and environmental sustainability across our Indiana service territory.
Let's now turn to our Gas Distribution group discussed on Slide 7.
Our NiSource Gas Distribution company has continued to deliver strong results from a core strategy of aligning long-term infrastructure replacement and enhancement programs with complementary customer programs and rate design initiatives.
For the quarter Gas Distribution operating earnings increased to about $247 million compared to $237 million during the first quarter of 2010.
Net revenues were up about $11 million primarily reflecting regulatory and infrastructure programs.
Operating expenses were up about $2 million due to increased depreciation driven by our elevated capital spend.
On the leadership front I'm pleased to welcome Joe Hamrock to our team as Executive Vice President and Group CEO of Gas Distribution.
Joe brings strong senior leadership experience to an already solid NGD management team.
Joe and the team are executing on infrastructure projects that span our entire gas distribution service territory.
These initiatives are part of a $4 billion-plus long-term investment program and when combined with complementary customer programs and regulatory treatment they contributed to NGD's solid performance during the first quarter.
In Pennsylvania the general assembly approved favorable legislation that supports our ongoing infrastructure modernization programs in the Commonwealth.
The law authorizes the PUC to approve a distribution system improvement charge.
The law also allows Pennsylvania utilities to base their rates on a forecasted test year which allows for more timely recovery of infrastructure investments.
On the regulatory filing front Columbia Gas of Massachusetts filed a base rate case with the Massachusetts DPU in mid-April.
The case seeks increased revenues of about $29 million to support the company's expanded infrastructure modernization and replacement plans and proposes to improve the timeliness of our investment recovery.
We expect a decision on that case in late October.
So across the board our Gas Distribution company has continue to deliver innovating programs to customers and generate solid financial performance for shareholders.
Before wrapping up I'd like to take a moment to reaffirm our 2012 earnings guidance and reiterate our core financial commitments.
As I noted earlier NiSource remains on track to deliver net operating earnings in line with our full year outlook which is $1.40 to $1.50 per share non-GAAP.
We're also proceeding with our robust and record $1.4 billion capital investment program.
As I noted during our 2011 year-end earnings call that enhanced capital investment plan reflects NiSource's broad and deepening inventory of accretive value-adding growth modernization and environmental projects.
We also continue to maintain our core financial commitments including stable investment-grade credit ratings and a secure attractive growing dividend.
On the credit rating front during the first quarter Standard &amp; Poor's reaffirmed our BBB- stable credit rating that followed comparable action by Moody's and Fitch in the fourth quarter of 2011.
So to conclude as our first quarter report reflects the NiSource team is continuing to execute on our plan to deliver collaborative regulatory and commercial solutions while making disciplined investments that will grow earnings on a sustainable basis.
With our Board of Directors' full support and ever-increasing buy-in from our key stakeholders I'm convinced that we have a compelling plan as well as the necessary resources and capabilities to deliver on our commitments and grow earnings north of 5% on a long-term sustainable basis.
As always we'll communicate with you and all of our stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest in and support of NiSource.
Let's now open the call to questions.
Grant? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> It looks like the West Side project is a go.
So that's $220 million of capital that we're kind of taking up incrementally on this call right? That's correct.
In-service late 2014 Paul.
Research Division</strong> And I know it's early but can we expect the East Side project to be a similar capital magnitude? It'll be in that area code.
We're sizing the project as we talk with potential counterparties and there's a possibility that it could come in north of that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And it sounds like you're pretty deep in discussions with your JV partner.
There's one player in the Utica who's been in the news lately for not good reasons.
Can you comment as to whether that could be a partner? It's -- that is not the counterparty that we're working with.
We are working with someone that is widely recognized widely respected.
And I believe that you will see that counterparty quite well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly what's your latest expectation of when you'll tap your forward equity sale? We're looking to do that in the second half of the year Paul.
So we issued that in September of 2010 so we will tap that before that date.
Research Division</strong> Before September '12? Yes.
Our next question comes from Stephen Maresca from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the potential project in Utica liquids-rich portion of Utica.
So I guess there's one counterparty you're working with is it something where you're looking or would potentially get a long-term commitment and can talk about sort of types of return you would potentially see on the project? And the orientation of revenues is it going to be more fee-based or is it something where you'd be willing to take a little bit of commodity exposure? Just to maybe begin at the back end of your questions.
It would certainly be fee-based.
The construction that we anticipate would be supported by a dedication of upwards of 100 000 acres.
The investment would be made over a period of time as the production ramps up.
The returns -- Steve just gave me a cue here on the returns.
You may recall that we've talked between 12% and 15% pretax ROIC sorts of hurdle rates.
And again we would anticipate that this project will be consistent with that return profile.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And generally a little color on how you see the landscape right now in that region in terms of competitiveness for projects for labor for materials? Yes.
I would say that we still see an elevated level of activity throughout that wet window of the Utica.
We also see a very competitive landscape in that area.
We feel like our competitive edge is the acreage position that we bring to the table in the wet portion as well as our pipeline right of way position in the area.
For contractors suppliers and the like it too is competitive but we've not seen what I would characterize as unreasonable spikes in costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of financing this would you anticipate any other additional financing needs other than what capacity you have on -- for liquidity and obviously the forward equity sale? We feel like that that will hold us for the foreseeable period.
Yes and we're also planning to do a $500 million debt issuance in the latter half of 2012 which we spoke of on our annual call February 1.
So with that the $500 million long-term debt issuance and the equity forward we're in good shape.
And Steve you -- just to round out that answer you may want to also mention that we do have maturities that get at the end of this year and early next year so...
Right we have a $315 million maturity in November and approximately $480 million maturity in February of 2013.
So with the $500 million long-term debt issuance in the second half of the year the equity draw which we spoke of earlier by September of 2012 and the residual benefits of bonus depreciation will be in good shape from a financing perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And final on this would you expect to be issuing a press release upon finding? And so when -- is that how we'll find out about this? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question from me just update on customer discussions for the modernization project how the discussions are going? What customers are saying and any sort of color there? And that's it for me.
Yes.
I would just repeat what I said in the prepared remarks we're fully engaged in a series of discussions with a large stakeholder group.
Those discussions are ongoing.
As you can appreciate I'm not in a position to provide color on those discussions.
These are confidential negotiations it's a process.
We appreciate all the stakeholders' involvement their good faith efforts to reach an agreement.
So at this point all I can talk to is process it's ongoing.
And again the hope would be that we'd be in a position to file an agreement with the FERC by midyear and we'd have FERC approval by year's end.
Our next question comes from Carl Kirst from BMO Capital Markets.
Actually just trying to follow-up on that last question Bob.
I understand there's very limited what you can say sort of on that timeline and you just sort of alluded to a midyear filing.
And I guess we're thinking June 30 here which is not that far away.
And so as far as speaking to the process is this something where you could say you might be in fairly advanced stages or is it still really even too soon to kind of call that? Well I'd say the process is ongoing Carl.
We began the exchanges late last year.
They've continued on a steady schedule through the first quarter and the process continues.
I appreciate that.
And maybe -- I don't know if this is -- any conversations apart from the Department of Transportation's comments that there's been any other conversation directly with the DOT and what I'm wondering is is that outside of a customer agreement do you think DOT's comments in any way raises the possibility that the FERC would consider trackers in the normal course of rate making? Carl I just don't know.
I wouldn't want to speculate on where the FERC is headed at this point.
In the past they've used trackers on a limited basis.
We certainly feel that programs of this size this sort of commitment justify that sort of treatment but I can't really speak beyond that Carl.
I appreciate that.
And then last question if I could just this is with respect to the eastern Ohio I mean the Utica acreage JV here.
And again not so much trying to put the cart in front of the horse but just trying to better understand when the comment is made about potential significant downstream infrastructure from the acreage dedication are you guys -- because 100 000 acres is a nice size are you thinking about this more of like a hub concept that would be replete with fractionation and NGL storage? Or is it more sort of the gathering processing and then pipeline we'll just go with that? More of the latter.
At this point it's more the latter.
Now would this be a basis for something bigger in that window? It certainly could be an anchor or a key element of something bigger.
But at this point the JV would be more of what you talked gathering processing and the like.
Our next question comes from Jay Dobson from Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Hey could we continue on the JV and I think you were addressing this in one of your earlier questions but can you just review with us again sort of how conceptually you're looking at this? It's -- as I sort of understand that it's you contributing your acreage in return for sort of a dedicated opportunity to develop the downstream or midstream infrastructure.
So I guess a confirm that; and then b if that's the case then should we be thinking about sort of a like size however one wants to value Utica your Utica a like-size amount investment in downstream that you'd be talking about? Yes Jay the concept would be that we will contribute roughly 15 000 acres that are associated with our Brinker Storage Field to the counterparty's acreage position.
In total the JV joint acreage would approximate 100 000 acres give or take.
We would participate in the development it'd be a passive participation in the development no cash out of hand no cash to us.
And then the JV would execute against all the downstream construction requirements.
Research Division</strong> And that's where your cash requirements would come in? That's exactly where the cash requirements would come in.
And we're not in a position today to give you a clear sense on what that CapEx might be over time but clearly it's going to be a function of a drilling program which we think will be aggressive.
And clearly there's expansive acreage involved in this deal and it's right in the heart of the wet window.
So we're quite bullish on the opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And appreciate you're in the short strokes of this but just sort of what are the sort of main -- remaining issues if you will? I mean you've been working on this for a while.
What are sort of the remaining issues? Yes.
It's blocking and tackling and closing the deal out.
I wouldn't characterize anything as a material major issue at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So as you said sort of 30 days 4 weeks somewhere in that timeframe we ought to have an announcement.
Both of us are being deliberate.
Obviously it's a significant marriage it's a potential model for what we're going to do throughout the Utica.
So we're just being deliberate and prudent as we go through the process and so are they.
Research Division</strong> That's a good thing.
They're always easier to get into than to get out of.
Two other items in industrial sales and I'm thinking both on the electric and the gas side but from an economic perspective saw that your electric industrial sales were down but gas industrial transportation up.
And I'm sure that was in part driven by the low gas prices.
But could you give us a little idea in light of those 2 items just sort of what you're seeing in the economy locally? Yes.
Just in the macro we think the economy is performing relatively well throughout our service territory.
We're certainly benefiting from the uptick in auto production so our auto manufacturers vehicle manufacturers supporting industries steel everybody is doing reasonably well.
If anything a little bit ahead of the plan.
Of course our plan's always conservative.
If you look at the electric industrial volumes they are down a tad quarter-to-quarter but they're up about 6% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
So overall they are certainly trending in the right direction.
I also mentioned on the NIPSCO Electric side notably industrial margins are up and that reflects the expiration of special contracts and the new rates.
So I feel really good about the fundamentals when we look at NIPSCO Electric industrial and R&amp;C and you'll notice the R&amp;C volumes are up and NIPSCO Electric as well.
On the gas side again it really goes back to the economy auto manufacturing low gas prices albeit low margins.
We're certainly encouraged by the throughput.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then 2 just detail questions.
Sort of corporate and other had a nice swing in the quarter and just what drove that? And then I saw you did sort of restate and called it out in the press release in the third -- or sorry first quarter of '11.
I assume that $0.02 swing was just the accounting adjustment you had from a year ago? That's correct.
That's correct.
That's the environmental write-up we took in the first quarter which we restated so...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just corporate and other? It's just cats and dogs Jay.
Nothing specific.
Research Division</strong> But I guess would it be of a nonrecurring nature? Should I assume something more like a modest drag? Is it more reasonable approach sort of quarters going forward as it normally has been or is something...
I would say that's a very reasonable assumption a modest drag as you said going forward.
Yes.
I'd just put a little color on O&amp;M across the board has been really well managed by the team.
So just fundamentally we feel good about the cost structure.
Our next question comes from Charles Fishman from MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> House Bill 1294 what is the timing on the Pennsylvania PUC addressing that? And when would your investment start? Well I'll go to the back end of the question.
We continued to invest at a robust level in Pennsylvania.
And so we've had that program underway now for gosh the better part of 4 years and the way we've been dealing with the investment is we've just filed a rate case every 12 to 18 months and we'll continue to invest in PA going forward.
On what they call now Act 11 Commission is working on rules.
We're also in the midst of preparing a rate case to utilize the forward-looking test year.
And during the latter part of the year fourth quarter so we're going to be filing a rate case to reflect the forward-looking test year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you have been spending about $300 million a year in total through all your gas distribution modernization.
Would this change that or is that still the number we should look for going forward? It's that number or potentially a little north of that number.
Research Division</strong> Driven by this Pennsylvania? No.
Again the Pennsylvania program is pretty well established.
It may be elevated a bit more because of this program that all of our states now have robust well consider accelerated infrastructure replacement programs in place.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> At NIPSCO I was wondering if you could give us a little color on how you guys are managing your coal burn and gas burn and what the impact of the lower coal prices and low gas prices are in your guys' fuel mix? Yes not a material change in the way we're operating the coal fleet [ph] for Sugar Creek our gas-fired generating plant.
I would note or repeat that Sugar Creek's been dispatched way beyond our wildest imagination and that's going on now for the better part of 2 years.
So it's not quite running full time but it is running on a consistent basis.
Just because the way we're configured and the way our system is set up we're going to continue to rely a lot on the coal stations.
And we really don't see a material change in the way they're operating.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
How are you managing your inventories? Are they pretty much at normal levels or would you say they're kind of elevated for the coal? I'd say they're relatively at normal levels.
Again not a material change in plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
As for Millennium the equity earnings boost year-over-year what drove that number up? Well we've increased the capacity.
We've increased the deliveries on Millennium so that's what you're seeing great demand and improvements on the system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are those all firm contracts or is it kind of interruptible sort of demand? Firm primarily.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And pardon me if I missed this but on the West Side expansion the ability to deliver volumes from north-central West Virginia to Pennsylvania the west to the Gulf Coast market.
How do the molecules actually physically get to the Gulf Coast markets? Part of our Columbia Gulf system will be bidirectional.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So meaning that people can -- you have to have the customer on both ends of the Columbia system pipeline? Are we just be able to swap gas at both ends? Yes.
Well the gas will be physically move from north to south.
It'll be a bidirectional leg of our 3-legged Columbia Gulf system.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then on the Big Pine Gathering System you indicated that's in the hydrocarbon-rich area of western Pennsylvania.
What happens to the liquids out of that gathering system? A third-party processor will deal with the liquids.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question for me in terms of the storage right now where are you guys with gas storage in your facilities and how does that get cycled out as we go into the summer? Yes.
It's cycled consistent with tariff requirements.
So typically customers by gosh I think it's April 1 need to be down to as low as 25% of their contracted capacity.
This year we provided a bit of relief and we gave them the ability to ratchet down only to 30%.
So that's what we've done.
No really material impact on our operations or revenues.
This is fully contracted fee-based storage.
But we did provide the customers a bit of flexibility in light of the much warmer than normal weather conditions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that -- when does that -- when do you get down to 30% when does that happen? April 1.
Our next question comes from Craig Shere from Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> On the 30% question there on the gas storage so all the forced cycling is already complete and at this point the build is just going to be normal through the injection season? Is that...
That's correct.
And just a little bit of color for many customers they weren't taking flowing gas from gosh December or early January they were pulling from storage so they could get down to these ratchets that we call them by April 1.
So again they weren't buying any flowing supply they were just pulling out of storage.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
We saw some low spot prices back then.
Yes sure.
Inc.</strong> Bob and I know you've kind of talked about this before but maybe if you can kind of remind me on the longer-term MLP option are you really thinking of that more as a capital funding issue when needed given your significantly expanding midstream and pipeline inventory? Or are you seeing it in your mind over time as more of a valuation differential question and one of a tax leakage versus the multiple? Well we consider first and foremost a financing -- potential financing vehicle.
You alluded to tax leakage and other considerations such as credit [ph].
Those are key considerations but we'd certainly have to manage very thoughtfully if we elected to go with an MLP at some point.
But we first and foremost think of in terms of financing.
Inc.</strong> If this $4 billion of improvements in your system gets approved and goes live are we -- is it reasonable to think that you can shoulder that comfortably with existing cash flows and balance sheet or could the MLP option come more into focus over the next couple of years as a result of that? Well we believe that we could certainly manage a $4 billion program that has customer support FERC support and well-crafted recovery mechanisms.
We think we can support that.
I will say that we continue to study and MLP is an option a tool that we might use in the future.
And we continue to look at our ability to generate midstream projects other pipeline growth projects on a consistent basis see whether they might be amenable to a drop down and whether they might be better financed with a MLP sort of vehicle.
So we continue to look at it but it's not in active development mode at this point.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like you're very close to resolution on the JV.
And that's kind of I guess a validation of your business model to monetize your acreage.
What's on the back burner in that effort? Sorry Paul you're going to have to give me a little more on that question.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like you committed about 15 000 acres.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> You've still got a significant acreage position kind of...
Yes I'm with you now.
The vast majority of our acreage position is in that what I would call the far western oily part of the window or the oily window.
And at the moment we're going slow with that and being very deliberate.
We're watching test drilling that we understand is underway by Devon and others and we're going to get a better sense of what that position looks like before we proceed.
Research Division</strong> When's your next board meeting? Our annual meeting is on May 12 I believe.
Help me here 15? 15 I'm sorry it's Tuesday May 15.
Research Division</strong> Okay and there'll be a board meeting around that obviously.
Oh yes.
Yes absolutely.
Our next question comes from Jay Dobson from Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Bob just 3 quick questions.
So the MLP what -- as you consider that and I appreciate it's -- I think you are just saying not an active development.
But what would be -- as I consider it and I share your belief that it's as much a financing decision as anything.
Is it going to be the ratchet of CapEx that's going to drive you to make a decision yay or nay on that thinking of the $4 billion pipeline modernization or any of these things which it doesn't feel like any of those are sort of 2012 elements.
So I guess I'm just trying to think when would you -- do you think you'd make a decision on that? Well I think we need to see how predictable and sustainable our midstream business grows.
So right now we're trying to gather -- gain a foothold in the Utica.
We continue to participate in the Marcellus.
But to this point it's been more sporadic as opposed to sustained.
If we're successful in projects like the JV greenfield projects in the Utica and the Marcellus then we think an MLP consideration becomes more relevant.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So it does sound like it's more like a '13-ish decision that would be driven by CapEx and other strategic decisions rather than anything in nearer term? Can't put a timeframe I guess I would go back to team able to generate sustainable flow of projects in the midstream.
In the midstream yes.
Yes in the midstream.
Research Division</strong> Got you that's fair.
And then on guidance I mean obviously you put up a very nice although weather-adjusted nice first quarter results.
How does it make you feel about guidance? I know you reaffirmed but is there or is there an edge towards the higher end the midpoint or something in that range as you sort of look out? And again I fully appreciate it's pretty early in the year.
Yes just squarely within the range at this point.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then on the dividend obviously there's been a lot of chatter about what you may or may not do there and I think your guidance comments were clearly to indicate your ongoing commitment to growing that.
How should we think about that for the balance of '12? Stay tuned.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then last question and I think you were talking about this but what are your days of burned storage of coal right now? Yikes.
We're going to have to -- we'll have Randy get back to you on that.
I just couldn't give you a good answer this morning.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But -- and I would definitely love to chat with Randy about it but as you think about them relative to sort of the '09 timeframe we're probably well inside of those record levels.
Oh gosh Jay I want to say yes.
But again to ensure that there's good accurate answer I'm going to have to ask Randy to get back to you.
Our next question comes from John Edwards from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just -- most of my questions were answered.
But just real quick what was the driver behind the higher employee and admin costs in Electric business this quarter? It's primarily about $3 million of payroll and about $5 million of higher benefit costs.
Our next question comes from Yves Siegel from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups number one a couple of folks asked about the monetization program and the MLP.
I don't see those as necessarily being connected is that right? We agree with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the next couple of questions would be -- I'm absolutely convinced you guys will be able to come up with sustainable predictable ongoing projects so I'm a fan of the MLP idea.
I guess that wasn't the question as much as an editorial.
And the other is just housekeeping can you just again remind me what your plans are for the pension funds as well as medical plan? Yes.
On the medical plan it's pay as you go if you will.
So we just deal with the expense on an annual basis.
And like others we've dealt with our medical plans with our employees and the like.
So we feel good about how we're positioned on medical expense going forward.
And that's about $50 million a year give or take.
And the question on pension just on funding you'll recall last year we accelerated our pension funding and we now stand at...
At 86% funded as of March 31.
So right now we're looking and considering what we'd do in 2011 -- 2012 -- I'm sorry on funding.
But we have a lot of flexibility on pension funding for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because it looked like the number was pretty de minimis in the 10-K as it relates to what the contribution would be.
Right.
That's correct.
We always preserve the right to accelerate more contributions should we elect to based on what we're seeing in the marketplace.
Yes.
And the philosophy intent is -- we do want to be fully funded again.
Our next question comes from Carl Kirst from BMO Capital Markets.
Two very quick follow-ups.
And this is just on the West Side and the East Side project.
As we look at sort of earnings going forward is that something that would bleed in overtime via AFUDC or more sort of you'd feel that earnings once the projects are completed? Yes.
My view is it's 2015 forward is when you're going to see the real impact.
Otherwise it's going to be in the big scheme of things immaterial.
Great.
I appreciate that.
And then the second question is -- and this just kind of speak to Big Pine and the returns on Big Pine because that was obviously legacy system I believe that you're adding on to.
So are we going to be in a position to be earning at the higher end of that 12% to 15% kind of pretax ROIC or is that -- I didn't know if you could get market base rates on that or negotiated rates or is that kind of just part of rate base or how should we think of that? I would say initially it's going to be at the lower end and we're actively marketing that line to other producers.
And as those producers come online we could see the returns move north.
But it will be over time.
I would now like to turn the call over to management for closing remarks.
Grant thanks so much.
And for all the participants this morning again thank you for your interest and your strong support.
We appreciate it.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That concludes your conference for today.
You may disconnect.
Thank you for joining and have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to your Q2 2012 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Deluj and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you and good morning.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and CEO; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy  Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
The focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the second quarter of this year and to provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on our website at nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking and these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning those risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
Today's agenda is focused and brief with plenty of time for questions.
We'll first review our second quarter earnings which at mid-year continue to be solid sustainable and on track with our 2012 outlook.
We'll then touch on key achievements across each of our business units.
We'll next provide additional color on our Gas Transmission system modernization effort as well as our significant midstream projects in the Utica and Marcellus.
Shale regions and then we'll open the line to your questions.
Let's start with a few key second quarter takeaways which you'll find on Slide 3 of the supplemental deck posted online this morning.
As you can see each of our 3 business units continues to deliver on a robust combination of infrastructure modernization growth and regulatory initiatives that together deliver significant benefits for our customers and solid value for our shareholders.
Here are a few highlights.
First and foremost we advanced several key Gas Transmission and midstream initiatives.
We also saw steady earnings growth from our ongoing industry-leading system modernization and regulatory initiatives.
To date those efforts have focused primarily on our Gas Distribution business but we're now expanding that scope to include our Gas Transmission system.
During the quarter we also took steps to reduce our financing costs and strengthen our financial foundation.
This disciplined financial strategy provides us with flexibility to support our deep and growing inventory of earnings accretive capital investment opportunities.
For 2012 those investment opportunities total over $1.4 billion.
We also continued to build shareholder value when our board announced a 4%-plus annualized increase in NiSource's dividend.
Great news for shareholders particularly when coupled with our ongoing earnings growth.
And finally as I noted earlier our team's continued strong performance enables us to confirm that halfway through the year we're on pace to achieve our 2012 non-GAAP earnings guidance of $1.40 to $1.50 per share.
So with that backdrop let's take a closer look at our second quarter results starting with our financial highlights on Slide 4.
As you can see NiSource delivered net operating earnings non-GAAP of almost $67 million or $0.23 per share for the 3 months ended June 30.
That compares with about $47 million or $0.17 per share for the second quarter of 2011.
Our operating earnings for the quarter increased from about $164 million to over $202 million.
On a GAAP basis our income from continuing operations for the quarter was about $71 million compared to about $41 million in 2011.
Schedules 1 and 2 to our earnings release shows the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation.
Let's turn now to our individual business unit results starting with our NiSource Gas Transmission &amp; Storage operations highlighted on Slide 5.
Needless to say it was an extremely busy productive quarter for CEO Jimmy Staton and the entire NGT&amp;S team and that progress has continued into the third quarter.
From a numbers perspective NGT&amp;S had a solid quarter generating operating earnings of nearly $92 million compared to about $85 million for the same period last year.
The primary revenue drivers were growth projects placed into service as well as increased equity earnings for Millennium Pipeline.
The team also continued to develop and execute infrastructure investment opportunities in existing and new markets including midstream projects to serve the Utica and Marcellus Shale regions.
Most notably we recently announced 2 expansive venturers with affiliates of Hilcorp Energy in the heart of the liquids-rich Eastern portion of the Utica.
One arrangement is focused on developing midstream infrastructure and the other is focused on hydrocarbon development.
Now prior to discussing the dimensions of the Hilcorp bills I need to provide a caveat and   make a pitch.
The caveat is that because Hilcorp is fully engaged in the very competitive acreage acquisition mode we simply can't provide extensive detail.
However this morning we'll certainly provide meaningful highlights and a bit of color around the deal's key elements.
And that leads to my pitch.
I know that you're eager for more information on our midstream progress along with our other growth initiatives.
I ask you to please stay tuned.
We're looking forward to sharing additional details un-peeling the onion if you will at our upcoming investor day that will be on September 12 in New York City with an online simulcast.
So now back to Hilcorp.
Hilcorp is one of the nation's leading independent oil and gas producers with an outstanding track record of operational success including deep experience in shale development and with notable financial strength.
For us an absolutely great fit.
Our infrastructure JV called Pennant Midstream will invest about $300 million in its first phase within service during the second half of 2013.
In the 50-50 partnership NiSource will construct and operate the facilities and contribute half of the required capital.
Once construction of the first phase is complete the system will provide about 400 million cubic feet per day of gathering capacity and approximately 200 million cubic feet per day of processing capabilities.
I note that although the first phase of the gathering system is anchored by Hilcorp's production the network is being engineered and built with expansion in mind.
This includes additional processing capacity and pipeline facilities as producer demand in the area evolves.
To that point we're actively marketing that capacity.
Ultimately we expect the total tenant investment opportunity could easily exceed $1 billion.
Directly tied to the infrastructure JV is a separate joint arrangement with Hilcorp focused on developing their hydrocarbon potential on a significant combined acreage position in the Utica.
NiSource contributed roughly 14 000 acres of mineral rights in northeast Ohio.
In return we're receiving upfront cash and the carried interest to help fund our interest in the total combined acreage position.
In effect the arrangement provides for a self-funding nonoperating working production interest plus royalties.
All told these interests could amount to over 5% of the combined acreage plus the joint arrangement provides for a multiyear drilling program that's already underway with significant base case production building in 2013.
And last but perhaps the most compelling strategic value as suggested moment ago the entire multi-county area of mutual [ph] interest is dedicated to the Pennant infrastructure JV.
So to say the least both of these agreements are significant for NiSource.
They provide near- and long-term earnings growth opportunities via core infrastructure investment as well as leverage our strategic mineral interests.
They also provide a model of what we hope to accomplish across our remaining acreage position as delineation [ph] development and producer activity in the Utica region continues.
One final midstream update.
Work is continuing on the $150 million Big Pine Gathering System in Western Pennsylvania.
Anchored by a long-term agreement with XTO energy this project is expected to be in service this December.
In addition to our midstream progress NGT&amp;S continues to build an inventory of customer focus expansion opportunities along our existing system.
For example Columbia Gas Transmission and Columbia Gulf Transmission are moving forward with our West Side expansion project which will help address changing supply and market demands by reversing a part of our system.
The change will enable us to transport about 500 000 dekatherms per day of Marcellus production originating in Southwest Pennsylvania and North Central West Virginia to Gulf Coast markets.
That's an approximately $200 million project with in-service targeted for late 2014.
Development is also continuing on our East Side expansion project which I mentioned on the first quarter call.
That project would also help address changing supply and demand dynamics in the highly competitive and capacity-constrained Eastern markets.
As a reminder to help you track these projects we have a map and project slide on Page 9 of the Appendix in our supplemental slides.
Before moving to our other business units one final update that's progress on the Columbia Gas Transmission modernization program.
As you know we've been engaged in a series of discussions with our customers regarding a comprehensive long-term infrastructure modernization program.
Similar to the programs at our gas utilities we view this as a win-win from a customer and public policy standpoint.
It'll enhance the reliability and flexibility of our pipeline system and ensure continued safe and reliable service.
It'll also generate jobs fuel economic growth and position our system well in advance for anticipated regulatory requirements.
In total we expect the plan could involve an investment of about $4 billion over a 10- to 15-year period.
Our discussions with customers are covered by nondisclosure agreements so I can't say much at this time other than they are advancing and we hope to have news to share with you by Investor Day.
To note on prior calls our goal is to reach a compressive agreement with our customers and other stakeholders and submit it to the FERC for approval by year's end.
So as you can see our Gas Transmission Storage team continues to aggressively advance a broad array of initiatives to enhance customer service assure continued system reliability and leverage our unparalleled strategic position in shale production regions.
Let's now shift to Indiana and our Electric business as summarized on Slide 6.
Our NIPSCO electric team is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year by executing on a historic level of environmental investment customer focus and community and economic development.
NIPSCO's quarter was solid and squarely in line with our plan.
Operating earnings came in at about $60 million compared to about $38 million for the same period last year.
Revenues were up about $30 million due to increased margins as a result of regulatory initiatives and the expiration of several large customer contracts now subject to current rates [ph].
Operating expenses increased about $8 million largely due to higher depreciation of cost associated with our Sugar Creek generating station that were deferred prior to the resolution of our electric brake case [ph].
During the recent wave of sustained high temperatures and severe southern storms NIPSCO's operating electric infrastructure has performed exceptionally well.
In fact the company reached an all-time peak load in late June exceeding 3 700 megawatts.
One note on those summer storms although we've certainly had our share NIPSCO's operations and customer service teams have responded with solid efficiency safety and concern for our customers.
We've also had our share of restoration in storm repair costs but those costs are within expectations and are not expected to significantly impact this year's earnings tremendous work by our team.
On the customer front NIPSCO requested Indiana commission approval of the Green Power Rate pilot program.
The program would allow customers to designate a portion or all of their monthly electric usage to power generated by renewable energy sources.
And of course cornerstone of NIPSCO's business agenda is executing in our $500 million investment in new scrubber equipment at our Schahfer Generating Station.
That project which remains fully on track is part of $850 million in environmental investments that we'll make in NIPSCO through 2018.
A footnote we're expecting Indiana commission approval of a separate scrubber project at our Michigan City generating station within a matter of months.
On another positive note we have an encouraging update on NIPSCO's 100-mile 340 KV transmission project.
On July 19 we received FERC approval for construction rate incentives and cost protections.
As we mentioned previously this project is part of MISO's broad-ranging system improvement initiative and scheduled to be in service during the latter part of the decade.
Before moving to our Gas Distribution business I want to note that several NIPSCO employees including CEO Jimmy Staton will be ringing the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange tomorrow to commemorate NIPSCO's 100th anniversary and our 50th year listed on the exchange it's another great opportunity to recognize the proud history and incredible progress made by our team.
Let's now turn to our Gas Distribution Operations discussed on Slide 7.
Our Gas Distribution team led by our new group CEO Joe Hamrock continues to deliver strong steady and predictable results from our well-established strategy of lining long-term infrastructure enhancement programs with complementary customer programs and rate design initiatives.
For the quarter Gas Distribution net revenues were up $8 million primarily reflecting regulatory and infrastructure programs.
Going forward the team continues to execute on our deep inventory of infrastructure enhancement projects spanning nearly all our Gas Distribution service territory.
These initiatives are part of a long-term investment program that totals at least $4 billion and frankly there could be even greater investment opportunities going forward.
Again stay tuned for our September 12 Investor Day.
On the regulatory front we remain on track with the Columbia Gas of Massachusetts base rate case which scheduled for decision in late October.
That case is designed to support the company's infrastructure modernization and replacement plans with timely investment recovery.
Columbia Gas Pennsylvania also is on track to follow rate case later this quarter to reflect the new Pennsylvania Act 11 regulatory enhancements that'll support our well-established infrastructure modernization program in the commonwealth.
And on the legislative front Columbia Gas Virginia played a key role in advancing that state's natural gas infrastructure expansion for economic development or the need legislation which also provides gas utilities to defer costs associated with infrastructure expansion for recovery for future rate cases.
So across the board our gas distribution companies continue to deliver an innovative programs to customers and solid financial performance for shareholders.
Before moving to your questions let me briefly touch on the status of our core financial commitments and solid financial profile.
As I noted earlier NiSource remains on track to deliver net operating earnings in line with our full-year outlook of $1.40 to $1.50 per share.
We're also staying true to our disciplined financial approach and our commitment to maintaining a solid investment-grade credit rate.
During the quarter we took a number of actions to reduce borrowing costs and support our robust capital investment program.
This included extending our $1.5 billion revolving credit agreement through 2017 completing a $250 million bank term loan and issuing $750 million in long-term debt at historically attractive rates.
We also remain on track to draw on our 210 -- 2010 $400 million forward equity sale in September.
So to close out the NiSource team is continuing to execute on a proven and promising business strategy.
That strategy provides for near term's earnings growth as well as a broad and deep portfolio of long-term investment opportunity.
Add to that our commitment to a solid investment-grade financial foundation providing flexibility to fund our infrastructure investment program.
And top it off with a secure attractive and growing dividend and a recent track record of providing industry-leading total shareholder return.
That's a compelling investment proposition in anyone's book.
As we open the line to questions I want to plug one more time our Investor Day on September 12 in New York City.
At the meeting and via Internet simulcast we'll share additional updates and details on our growth plans.
And as always we'll communicate with you and all our stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest in and support of NiSource.
Deluj let's now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first question comes from the line of Stephen Maresca of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just hoping maybe from a bigger picture on the joint venture.
Can you discuss at all any sort of commodity sensitivity that you would have around some of these joint venture arrangements or is that something that you can't talk about right now? Well again in the spirit of big picture 50 000 feet the exposure to commodity is nil if any [ph].
On the infrastructure side we have the dedication of the entire multi-county area of interest.
So that's going to be supported by that that drilling program and production.
It's not a percentage of proceeds or anything like that.
It's going to be fee-based.
Our working interest royalty interest again at 50 000 feet is relatively small on the big scheme of things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you said you contributed on the developing of the hydrocarbon potential.
You're contributing 14 000 acres.
So how much more acreage do you have to contribute? Could you replicate this or is that other acreage on [indiscernible] to go towards something with Hilcorp? No the other acreage is standalone.
It's not dedicated or pledged or contracted to Hilcorp.
So in the western portion of the Utica window that acreage is NiSource's.
We've mentioned in the past that we're waiting for that area to be delineated further defined -- so while that activity that unfolds we continue to hold that acreage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Westside the backhaul that you're doing is there anything that needs to be done to your system? And do you see more of this happening as the Marcellus grows? Again in the big scheme of things the engineering is very very manageable.
It's relatively modest for the entire project both the Columbia Gas Transmission work and the Columbia Gulf work the total is roughly $200 million.
The work on Columbia Gulf is for the most part compressor station salving[ph].
And I'd add it's not a backhaul per se on Columbia Gulf.
We're going to render one of our 3 Columbia Gulf legs bidirectional.
So one leg would become fully bidirectional and so this gas would in fact move south.
Your other -- the other proportion to your question could we see more of this occurring and the answer would be yes.
That's a possibility.
First things first we'll proceed with this project that was warmly received -- well-received by the marketplace and we'll look at the other 2 legs as interest develops.
And the next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the Hilcorp you mentioned $1 billion potential.
Kind of how many years do you see that unfolding over or is that going to be something that we need to wait for September 12 for? Well I think it's sooner rather than later.
As suggested in my prepared comments the agreement does include a drilling program outlines the drilling program.
We'd say that the drilling program is aggressive.
Hilcorp has a well-established record of going at this at a pretty good clip and I think if you look at their track record in the Southwest the Eagle Ford for instance you'll see a production track that looks pretty aggressive so we see this occurring over the next 5 years or so -- Research Division</strong> Great.
And you kind of broke up on the call I'm sorry but you said with regards to the modernization projects you expected to file something by year-end.
Could you just kind of -- I think I missed the details there.
Sorry.
Yes there were a lot of details because we are working under confidentiality agreements nondisclosure agreements with the customers.
But we've said gosh Paul for now the better part of a year that our game plan was to deal with this in 2012 and our hope was to have FERC action approval of an arrangement by year-end 2012.
Research Division</strong> And currently the rate structure on the pipes is a postage stamp tariff as opposed to a pancake is that correct? Well Columbia Gas Transmission and modernization applies to Columbia Gas Transmission.
So it's the market area grid pipeline.
And you're correct that rate on Columbia Gas Transmission is a postage stamp.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned something before the Indiana commission with regards to Michigan City environmental.
Would that be incremental to the $850 million of environmental CapEx you've outlined before? It would be included in the $850 million.
The next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from Citigroup.
I just wanted to clarify something in your prepared remarks on the hydrocarbon joint venture.
I think you said you have -- the way this joint venture works is that you've contributed your 15 000 acres and you have a carried drilling interest and a non- -- and after this you have a nonoperated 5% working interest in the 15 000-roughly acres.
Is that correct? No.
The acreage contributed is roughly 14 000 acres.
We're going to combine that with acreage that Hilcorp has and acreage that Hilcorp is acquiring in an area of mutual interest.
For the entire combined Hilcorp-NiSource acreage we'll have a 5% working interest plus an overriding royalty interest in the entire combined acreage position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And all you had to do is contribute this 14 000 acres to get this working interest in the entire mutual area? Effectively that's how the arrangement's structured.
Research Division</strong> And you already received the cash on this deal I take it? We will receive -- in return for the contribution we'll receive a portion in cash upfront.
We'll receive the other portion as a working carry if you will carried interest.
And again I would remind you just in the spirit of clarity the entire combined acreage the mutual area of interest is then dedicated to the Pennant infrastructure joint venture.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay understood.
And then on the Big Pine Gathering System the 425 million cubic feet per day how does that ramp up? Is that kind of slowly ramped up over time or is that kind of immediately at 425 million cubic feet per day? It ramps and the key to the ramp is XTO's drilling program.
So at the outset they are the primary driver for the ramp up and throughput.
We're in the process of marketing additional capacity on Big Pine similar when we need [ph] to place the capacity.
And then those producers like XTO need to execute on their drilling program.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then on the pipeline side also Columbia Gulf looks like volumes were down about 10% over last year.
Can you kind of describe what's going on over there? Yes second quarter -- and just to remind you that the second quarter is really a shoulder-off quarter for us and so I wouldn't read too much into the volumes on Columbia golf or for that matter anywhere.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
It's not that there's some sort of volume [indiscernible] from the Gulf Coast? Yes.
Yes.
I wouldn't read that into it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question about NIPSCO.
As you put these covers in place how does that change your coal buying sort of volumes.
I mean are you going to shift more to the Illinois Basin or how is that going to shift your coal purchasing sort of behavior going into the...
Yes at the margin we'll be able to -- at the margin we'll be in a position to buy a bit more of Illinois basin coal but I would say -- and again very macro very 50 000 feet - it's not going to radically change our buying patterns.
And the next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst of BMO Capital.
Just a few cleanup questions maybe if I could and the first on the Pennant JV and recognizing we're kind of [ph] marketing here but is it possible to say how much of the capacity is going to sort of the Hilcorp anchor [ph].
I'm just trying to figure out how much additional you guys can re-market meaning how much more icing might there be? Yes I still don't want to go over my skews [ph] at the moment on that Carl.
Again stay tuned on the 12th and hopefully [Audio Gap] we'll be in a position to give you a little bit better sense on how much to would say additional icing there might be.
Okay fair enough.
And the second question I apologize Bob if you said this in the prepared commentary but on the West Side expansion is that something that is -- are those volumes long-term contracted or is this something that we should think of as basically addition to rate base and eventually you'll go to a rate filing on those? Well there's a long-term arrangement.
So the investment is supported by long-term agreements with shippers.
So from our perspective it's as long-term and as firm as any other core system breadth [ph] project that we deal with.
Okay and I appreciate the clarification.
And then lastly if I could just trying to get a little bit more understanding of this long-term NIPSCO transmission project the $270 million transmission project.
Is this something that we should think of as perhaps being 5 to 7 years in the making as far as $25 million $50 million spend or is this something that once it's engineered and gets going we'll just have the spend all happening in 2016 2017 for instance? The bulk of the spend would be back ended.
We will be spending money for engineering right-away work that sort of thing but the bulk of the dollars would in fact be in the time period you mentioned.
Again 100 miles about $270 million is the total investment in the project.
The next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> On the Electric transmission project you have MISO approval you have FERC approval what is the next milestone we should be looking for? I think that's about it in terms of what we would call regulatory milestones.
Again I mentioned we have a lot of work to do on the local front for permits right of ways engineering that sort of thing but the key regulatory steps have been taken.
[Operator Instructions] And the next question comes from the line of James Dobson of Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Three questions if I can.
First starting off on -- there we go.
On the acreage so the piece in addition to the 14 000 you've committed to the Hilcorp JV.
I know some of that's still being sured up and understood.
But as we think about that going forward and understanding you'll have a lot more on this on the 12th should we think about another process that would bring about potentially another JV like Hilcorp? Should we think about Hilcorp as sort of being in the driver's seat - that you'd sort of like to though you're not contractually obligated to commit acreage to another agreement with them? Just maybe add a little color around this for how we should be thinking about that going forward? Well I think going forward we think about our acreage in the western portion of the Utica we hope that the structure that we've developed -- we think could be a model could be a model could be a template in terms of counter parties and direction and that sort of thing.
Way way way too early to opine [ph] on that Jay.
And in fact what I would go back to is we've got to find out whether there is anything over there on the west that's commercial.
That's step one.
So we're continuing to watch very closely Devon and other folks that are reportedly drilling test wells in that portion of the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Switching then to the pipeline modernization just sort of harkening back to the last couple of calls.
You historically have had sort of a balance we're talking to our customers and if that fails we'll file something at FERC.
And I'm trying to probably parse your words more than you'd like me to and respecting that you have NDAs in this process but it sounds like you're a little more optimistic you're going to be able to get a settlement with customers.
Is that a fair read of sort of the state of play understanding that we have no solution yet so there is no -- nothing guaranteed? The discussions have been constructive ongoing and stay tuned.
Research Division</strong> But you wouldn't say that the absence -- because I think if I sort of listened carefully and I did you didn't actually bring up the idea of just filing something at FERC and the absence of customer agreement? No I just -- you're absolutely correct.
I didn't mention that.
That continues to be the option the Plan B if discussions with customers don't cross the finish line.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then lastly just on the earnings guidance if I'm doing the math right you're at about $1.42 trailing 12 months.
So should we think of you sort of now sort of looking towards the higher end of guidance and sort of if not what am I missing in the second half of this year that maybe isn't obvious? Well I think you've hit the nail on the head.
We still have half of the year to go.
And so we've got a lot of initiatives underway as we've noted.
We're still in the midst of the summer season that can continue to bring storm -- storm restoration challenges.
So at this point I think the most prudent realistic view is we're between $1.40 and $1.50.
We do have another question from the line of Faisal Khan of Citigroup.
I'm sorry we're getting no response from Mr.
Khan.
I will now hand back to Mr.
Bob Skaggs for any closing remarks.
All right.
Deluj thank you so much and again to everyone that's participated on the call we appreciate your interest your support.
And to everyone we look forward to seeing you on September 12 either in person or virtually.
So thanks have a good day.
Appreciate your interest.
Thanks.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for today's participation.
You may now disconnect.
Enjoy your day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2012 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Leanne and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to advise the parties that the conference is being recorded.
And now I'd like to hand over to Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining us this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the third quarter of 2012 and to provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on the call will be forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen and good morning and thanks for joining us.
Before diving into the details of NiSource's third quarter we want to take a moment to extend our thoughts and sympathies to everyone affected by Hurricane Sandy.
Our teams were on high alert during the storm and aside from some minor disruptions our operations and team members fared well.
In fact there are no major issues with our facilities to report.
A big thank you to all of our teams for their focus on safety and to the emergency workers and first responders that braved the storm and are involved in the ongoing recovery efforts.
And a special thank you to our crews from NIPSCO and Columbia Gas of Massachusetts that have mobilized to assist with the restoration efforts.
And thank you to our financial stakeholders for understanding our decision to reschedule our earnings announcement from Tuesday to this morning.
Now to the business at hand.
Our agenda today is focused and straightforward with plenty of time for questions.
We'll first touch on financial highlights from yet another strong quarter.
As you'll see our earnings continue to be on track with our 2012 outlook.
We'll also cover the strong progress we've made across each of our business units which demonstrates our team's continued execution on NiSource's well-established infrastructure investment-driven growth strategy.
And finally we'll field your questions.
Let's start with a few key takeaways which you'll find on Slide 3 of the supplemental deck posted online this morning.
If there's one theme for the quarter and the year for that matter it's strong progress.
Strong progress on our business plan and financial results strong progress across each of our business units and strong progress on a robust capital investment program.
As noted in this morning's release NiSource's earnings are squarely in line with our 2002 -- 2012 guidance of $1.40 to $1.50 per share non-GAAP.
Notably our Gas Transmission and Storage team filed a comprehensive near-unanimous customer settlement in support of its groundbreaking -- excuse the pun -- infrastructure modernization program.
We also advanced our midstream and minerals game plan by virtue of a couple strategic arrangements with Hilcorp Energy in the heart of the liquids-rich Utica Shale play.
In addition we continue to execute on a broad array of utility infrastructure modernization and environmental investments across our markets.
These investments are the foundation of our discipline infrastructure-focused business strategy and drive sustainable earnings quarter-after-quarter all the while delivering value for our customers communities and other key stakeholders.
For 2012 we expect these infrastructure investments to exceed $1.5 billion.
And most of you who attended virtually or in person our September Investor Day know that we have an extremely deep inventory of value-adding infrastructure investment opportunities spanning the next 20-plus years and totaling $25 billion to $30 billion.
On an annual basis that opportunity will translate into a capital investment run rate of $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion.
And last but certainly not least we have the financial foundation and demonstrated discipline to support this enhanced investment strategy.
So with that backdrop let's take a closer look at our third quarter results starting with our financial progress on Slide 4.
As you can see NiSource delivered net operating earnings non-GAAP of almost $16 million or $0.05 per share for the 3 months ended September.
That compares with about $33 million or $0.11 per share for the third quarter of 2011.
Our operating earnings for the quarter decreased from about $142 million to approximately $130 million.
It's important to note that these results reflect approximately $50 million in previously disclosed and anticipated costs associated with our pipeline modernization customer settlement.
Again even with this expense we remain on track to deliver on our financial commitments for 2012.
On a GAAP basis our income from continuing operations for the quarter was about $20 million compared to about $36 million in 2011.
Schedules 1 and 2 to our earnings release showed the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciling items.
Let's turn now to our individual business unit results starting first with the strong progress we've made at NiSource Gas Transmission &amp; Storage or NGT&amp;S highlighted on Slide 5.
As I mentioned the highlights of the quarter is the comprehensive and I might add unprecedented customer settlement filed with the FERC in early September.
The settlement represents a key step forward in support of our pipeline modernization initiative a long-term program that ultimately is expected to involve roughly $4 billion in investment to enhance the safety reliability and flexibility of our Columbia Gas Transmission system.
The agreement has an initial 5-year term covering investments placed into service during the 2013 through 2017 timeframe with provisions for potential extensions.
It provides an adjustment to base rates and a predictable annual cost recovery mechanism for our projected $300 million annual investment.
Notably the settlement is now ripe for action by the FERC and the parties have asked the commission to grant its approval prior to December 1.
Moving on.
NGT&amp;S's core operating earnings continued to be solid and benefited from a number of growth projects placed in service since last year as well as the Columbia Gulf rate case which was settled in November of 2011.
Our NGT&amp;S team also continues to develop and execute on infrastructure investment opportunities in existing and new markets as well as midstream projects to serve the Utica and Marcellus Shale regions.
Specifically during the quarter Millennium Pipeline received FERC approval to add more than 12 000 horsepower of compression in Orange County New York.
We'll fund nearly half of that partnership investment of about $43 million.
Construction has started on the project with the targeted in-service date in the first quarter of 2013.
We're also moving ahead on a couple of other significant projects that will help provide market access for new shale gas production.
Our $200 million West Side Expansion project has binding precedent agreements in place and is on track for an FERC filing in the first half of 2013.
That project is set for in-service in late 2014.
And just last week we announced that we have binding precedent agreements with customers of East Side Expansion project.
That approximately $200 million project will add up to 300 000 dekatherms per day of capacity to meet increasing demand by moving Marcellus gas from Northern Pennsylvania to markets along the East Coast and Mid-Atlantic regions.
We're targeting an in-service date in the third quarter of 2015.
On the minerals and midstream front we previously announced 2 strategic agreements with Hilcorp Energy for hydrocarbon and infrastructure investment in the heart of the liquids-rich portion of the Utica.
Our 50-50 infrastructure JV with Hilcorp called Pennant Midstream will invest about $300 million in its first phase with in-service targeted during the second half of 2013.
NiSource will construct and operate the facilities contribute half of the capital required.
Once construction of the first phase is complete the system will provide about 400 million cubic feet per day of gathering capacity and approximately 200 million cubic feet per day of processing capabilities.
I'd note that the first phase of the gathering system is anchored by Hilcorp's production and that the network is being engineered and built with expansion in mind.
This includes additional processing capacity and pipeline facilities as producer demand in the area develops.
Ultimately the total Pennant investment opportunity could exceed $1 billion.
A separate joint agreement with Hilcorp is focused on developing the hydrocarbon potential on approximately 100 000 combined acres in Northeast Ohio and Western Pennsylvania.
NiSource will participate in the development of the acreage owning both a working and overriding royalty interest with all acreage dedicated to the Pennant Midstream project.
These interests could amount to over 5% of the combined acreage.
Test wells are currently being drilled and based on the results from those wells a full drilling program will be launched in 2013.
So to say the least these joint arrangements are significant for NiSource.
They provide near- and long-term earnings growth opportunities primarily by means of core infrastructure investment but also by capitalizing on our mineral interest position.
They also provide a model for our remaining acreage position as delineation development and producer activity in the Utica region continues.
Also in our Midstream business work is continuing on the $150 million Big Pine Gathering System in Western Pennsylvania.
This project provides customers with alternative outlets from Marcellus Shale production with transportation capacity of 425 million cubic feet per day and the flexibility to deliver to 3 interstate pipelines.
Anchored by a long-term agreement with XTO Energy this project is on budget and on schedule and will be fully in-service by early 2013.
As a reminder to help you track our many NGT&amp;S projects we've added a map and project slides -- slide in the appendix of our supplemental slides.
Please take a look at Slide 9.
Clearly our NGT&amp;S team continues to advance a broad array of initiatives to meet the needs of customers assure continued system reliability and leverage our unparalleled strategic position in shale production regions.
We anticipate investing $500 million to $700 million annually in this business going forward.
Let's now shift to Indiana and our electric business summarized on Slide 6.
NIPSCO's quarter was solid and squarely in line with our plan.
Operating earnings came in at about $78 million compared to about $73 million for the same period last year.
Revenues were up about $27 million due to increased margins as a result of NIPSCO's 2011 electric rate case.
With our new Executive Vice President and group CEO Jim Stanley now on board the team notched significant wins in a variety of areas.
First NIPSCO received Indiana Commission approval to move forward with an FGD scrubber unit in our Michigan City plant.
Construction of the unit will begin in 2013 with an investment of approximately $250 million.
I note that construction of the FGD units at our Schahfer facility remain on schedule and on budget.
All told our environmental investments will approach $900 million over the next few years.
NIPSCO also received FERC approval to move forward on 2 significant electric transmission enhancement projects.
One which we announced on our last quarterly call is the 100-mile Reynolds to Hiple transmission project.
It'll involve a total investment of about $300 million.
The second project is a partnership with Pioneer LLC called Reynolds to Greentown project.
The 50-50 partnership will invest about $330 million in this 66-mile line.
Both projects are expected to be placed in-service during the latter part of the decade.
The cost of these projects will go to all MISO customers with only a small percentage recovered from NIPSCO's customers.
Looking further ahead the NIPSCO team will continue taking steps to improve reliability and spur a continued economic development in Northern Indiana.
That effort will include modernization of our core electric system the replacement of transformers poles lines and other vital equipment.
And going forward we expect to invest $400 million to $450 million annually in our NIPSCO Electric infrastructure.
Let's turn now to our Gas Distribution Operations or NGD summarized on Slide 7.
Our NGD team continues to deliver strong and steady results from its core business plan.
That well-established strategy centers on aligning long-term infrastructure and enhancement programs with complementary customer programs and regulatory initiatives.
For the quarter NGD's net revenues were up about $13 million primarily reflecting regulatory and infrastructure programs.
Since the start of 2012 these programs have generated nearly $30 million in incremental revenues.
On the regulatory front just last night we received an order from the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities for our base rate case.
Although we're continuing to evaluate the full scope of the 500-page order which will increase annual revenues by about $8 million we believe the outcome is generally in line with our expectations.
In Pennsylvania our team recently filed a rate case with the commission.
Consistent with Pennsylvania's recently enacted Act 11 the case reflects a fully projected test year and includes improved infrastructure investment recovery mechanisms.
The case which we expect to be resolved in the second half of 2013 proposes to increase annual revenues by approximately $77 million largely driven by our significant ongoing infrastructure investments in the commonwealth.
Meanwhile we continue to advance infrastructure enhancement programs as well as a broad array of new customer programs in Ohio Virginia and our other states.
And a prospective scope of these programs continues to grow.
In fact as Joe Hamrock outlined at our September Investor Day our long-term infrastructure replacement program opportunity at NGD could top $10 billion over the next 20-plus years.
We expect that opportunity to translate into an investment run rate of between $600 million and $650 million annually at NGD.
Before moving to your questions let me briefly reiterate a few themes we shared at our recent Investor Day.
I'd note that you can still take a look at the full presentation and review the webcast.
Both are available in the Investor Relations section of nisource.com.
First and foremost we have a robust inventory of infrastructure-focused investment opportunities across each of our businesses.
The total inventory amounts to $25 billion to $30 billion over the next couple of decades and supports a sustainable annual capital investment of $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion going forward.
Through those investments we anticipate growing net operating earnings per share non-GAAP by an average of 5% to 7% per year on a long-term basis.
We also plan to continue to provide an attractive and growing dividend one that we expect to increase at 3% to 5% annually.
And we're unconditionally committed to accomplishing all of this while maintaining our solid investment-grade credit ratings and strong liquidity.
These commitments coupled with the team's established track record of disciplined execution continue to make NiSource a compelling investment proposition for all our financial stakeholders.
As always we'll communicate with you and our stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Our next formal communications with the market is scheduled for mid-February when we'll release our full 2012 -- full year 2012 earnings and provide a business update.
Consistent with the practice followed by many of our peers we'll issue our year-end earnings contemporaneously with our 10-K filing.
At that time we'll also outline our 2013 earnings guidance and capital investment plans.
Thank you for participating this morning and for your ongoing interest in and support of NiSource.
Leanne we can open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] We already have a question waiting and that comes on the line from Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Hilcorp.
Did you -- I just kind of missed -- may have missed it.
Did you say the opportunity currently $300 million could grow to $1 billion? That's right.
We believe that the downstream infrastructure opportunity assuming robust drilling and activity in that region in the Utica could approach $1 billion for the entire partnership.
So our share would be about $0.5 billion.
Research Division</strong> Can I have a sense of the timeframe? Yes.
We think this is a 5-year 7-year sort of proposition.
Again it's going to depend on the pace of drilling activity in the region.
Research Division</strong> And your third quarter report indicated some positive preliminary drilling results.
Can you just elaborate? Well Hilcorp has been active in the area of interest.
They drilled a number of test wells.
They're looking at frac-ing approaches tracking approaches.
We don't have IP information at this point but the initial results and tests indicate that we're in the sweet spot of the region.
Research Division</strong> Where is that exactly? It's a 4-county area 2 counties in Ohio and 2 counties bordering in Pennsylvania.
And your next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman for Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> On the filing last month in Pennsylvania Columbia Gas filing would -- is there anything in the filing that's not consistent with Act 11? Or is this pretty much a -- I won't -- I guess it's not a formality but certainly your expectations would be that everything would be approved.
On that matter is there something that's a little different? No.
It's fully consistent with Act 11 but I'd make this key observation.
We're the first out of the gate.
So this is going to be the first case that the commission will consider under Act 11.
So it will be to a degree precedent setting in breaking new ground in that respect.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going to NIPSCO on the transmission.
When you said FERC approved your joint venture line with Pioneer the whole thing has been approved not just your 50%.
Is that correct? Am I misunderstanding that? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to the transmission is there anything on the horizon that -- additional projects with Pioneer or on your own in that transmission? Well the team the electric transmission team in NIPSCO continues to do a lot of work with projects in particular in consultation with MISO.
So stay tuned for additional opportunities as the months and years unfold.
We believe we certainly have the opportunity to increase the portfolio and the investment opportunity as we look at decongesting MISO and providing increased reliability and increased ability to move electrons from the West to the East.
Research Division</strong> And then finally on your dividend policy the 3% to 5% annually.
Since -- it looks like your CapEx is running maybe a little ahead of what you outlined previously which is obviously good if it's good projects.
How will the Board look at that next year? Will they -- just because the CapEx is running higher do you think they might be at the lower end of that dividend growth range? Or was that not an issue? Well let me put the policy in perspective.
We've said that the payout ratio should be between 60% and 70%.
This year we're going to be right in the middle of that range and going forward we'd like to continue to be give or take well within in the range.
So the Board's going to look at where we stand with regard to the payout ratio.
They're going to look at our intention to consistently grow the dividend.
And they're going to look at that 3% to 5% guideline that we provide.
So they're going to take all those factors in along with where we stand on CapEx where we stand with the credit rating agencies and I think they're going to base their decision on those sorts of factors.
Research Division</strong> And that decision will be made midyear next year? More likely than not.
Last year we announced our dividend action at the Annual Meeting in May.
And again not speaking for the Board but I believe that would tend to be the period we'd gravitate to.
We have no further questions waiting at this time.
[Operator Instructions] All right Leanne.
And to the folks that have participated we certainly appreciate your interest.
Thanks for your support and have a good weekend and a safe weekend.
Thanks so much.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carissa and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed.
Thank you Carissa and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Here this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
The focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 and to provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning those risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors section of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
For today's agenda first and foremost we'll review another year of strong performance.
Our 2012 highlights reflect the continued strength of our strategy as well as our team's proven ability to execute on that strategy and build shareholder value.
We'll also update you on more recent accomplishments and ongoing initiatives.
And finally we'll discuss our 2013 financial outlook and key commitments.
We'll also have plenty of time for your questions.
Let's start on Slide 3 in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning.
As we noted in this morning's release 2012 was yet another year of disciplined execution across all facets of our business strategy.
As you know that strategy is anchored by a deep and growing inventory of infrastructure-focused capital investments that generate significant value for our customers shareholders and other key stakeholders.
For the sixth year in a row our team's execution of that strategy generated earnings growth squarely in line with our guidance and for the fourth consecutive year it produced total shareholder returns that outperformed the utility indices.
Specifically NiSource generated non-GAAP earnings of $1.46 per share well within our guidance range of $1.40 to $1.50 per share and strong year-over-year growth of more than 10%.
We also generated total shareholder return [Technical Difficulty] We apologize.
Dreaded glitch our phone was obviously disconnected for some reason.
In any way we apologize.
And let me just go back to the performance financial performance for 2012 and I'll begin the narrative at that point we'll just carry on.
Again we apologize.
NIPSCO generated non-GAAP earnings of $1.46 per share well within our guidance range of $1.40 to $1.50 per share and strong year-over-year growth of more than 10%.
We also generated total shareholder return of approximately 8.5% and increased our dividend for the first time in more than a decade.
That strong momentum has continued in 2013 as earlier this month our stock price reached a 10-year high.
As I noted the foundation of NiSource's success over the last several years has been the team's demonstrated ability to execute on our inventory of infrastructure-focused capital investment opportunities.
In 2012 those capital investments reached nearly $1.6 billion.
Over the balance of the call I'll discuss how we are continuing to enhance and expand that investment portfolio which will produce a record capital investment program of about $1.8 billion in 2013.
Many of you may recall that we outlined key elements of NiSource's elevated investment strategy at our 2012 Investor Day last September.
In particular we identified and expanded inventory of accretive infrastructure investment opportunities for the next 2 decades totaling $25 billion to $30 billion.
Those opportunities will drive an annual capital investment run rate of $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion sustainable annual earnings growth of between 5% and 7% and an annual dividend growth rate of between 3% and 5%.
You may also recall that we emphasized that we would fund our enhanced program in a balanced fashion and we would religiously guard our investment-grade credit rating.
By way of an update we are well on our way in executing that elevated plan.
I'll touch on several of our team's recent advances this morning including of course a watershed event for us the FERC's January 24 approval of Columbia Gas Transmission's landmark infrastructure modernization settlement.
I'll speak more to the implications of that settlement in a moment.
But suffice it to say that our Columbia pipeline team is now poised to make significant and ongoing investments that will modernize our system and benefit our customers and other key stakeholders for decades to come.
At our gas utilities we also continue to see strong execution on our industry-leading infrastructure modernization programs and in our Indiana electric business solid progress on our significant environmental investments.
In a snapshot yet another very strong year for NiSource.
We added to our growing track record for delivering results and we have a well-established highly-visible plan to continue building shareholder value through long-term sustainable investment and earnings growth.
So with that backdrop let's take a closer look at our 2012 results starting with our financial progress on Slide 4.
As you can see NiSource delivered net operating earnings non-GAAP of about $427 million or $1.46 per share in 2012.
That compares with about $369 million or $1.32 per share for 2011.
Our operating earnings for the year increased by about $125 million over 2011.
On a GAAP basis our income from continuing operations for the year was about $411 million or $1.41 per share compared to about $295 million or $1.05 per share in 2011.
Schedules 1 and 2 to our earnings release shows the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciling items.
Turning to our individual business unit results let's start with our pipeline business summarized on Slide 5.
Prior to highlighting the results I want to mention a naming change you'll notice going forward.
We're rebranding our NiSource Gas Transmission and Storage group as the Columbia Pipeline Group or CPG.
This leverages the historic strength of our Columbia Gas Transmission and Columbia Gulf brands in the tradition of service and reliability they represent.
From an earnings standpoint our pipeline group's performance continue to be solid benefiting from growth projects placed into service as well as Columbia Gulf rate case that we settled in November 2011.
We generate operating earnings of about $398 million in 2012 compared to $360 million in 2011.
As I mentioned a few moments ago the most significant highlight is the landmark system modernization agreement that the team completed in 2012 and was approved by the FERC last month.
That approval establishes a clear path forward.
With an identified project stream and a balanced transparent recovery mechanism this long-term program ultimately is expected to involve roughly $4 billion to $5 billion in investment to ensure the ongoing safety reliability and flexibility for Columbia Gas Transmission system.
Under the settlement beginning immediately we'll invest about $1.5 billion in the first 5 years in addition to $100 million in annual maintenance investment.
The program truly is a win-win for our customers the company and all our key stakeholders.
Our pipeline and midstream project development teams also are continuing to develop and execute on infrastructure investment opportunities in existing and new markets and midstream projects to serve the Utica and Marcellus Shale regions.
As a side I'll note that as part of our supplemental slides we've outlined the various infrastructure projects currently in flight and plan.
By the way you'll find similar slides for each of our business units.
In our midstream business our Big Pine Gathering System will be placed fully into service by April of this year.
Supported by a long-term gathering agreement with XTO Energy the $160 million project will transport up to 425 million cubic feet per day of Marcellus production.
Also in midstream Pennant Midstream LLC our joint venture with Hilcorp continues to make progress with its pipeline and processing facilities and remains on schedule to be completed and in-service by the end of 2013.
NiSource is responsible for $150 million of the total investment in the project's first phase.
In connection with our other resource development-based arrangement with Hilcorp test wells were drilled in 2012 to support the development of the hydrocarbon potential on more than 100 000 combined acres in the Utica/Point Pleasant Shale formation.
Although the evaluation process continues preliminary results are quite encouraging and indicate liquids content consistent with active wells in the area.
Delineation and additional test wells will continue in 2013 with a full development program launched later this year.
We anticipate the 2013 development program will include the drilling of 10 to 20 wells.
Recall NiSource will invest alongside Hilcorp in the development of the acreage owning both the working and overriding royalty interest all of the Hilcorp NiSource acreage is dedicated to the Pennant Midstream project.
On our regulated pipelines the team also is moving ahead on several projects that will help provide liquidity and market access for new shale gas production.
These include the East Side and West Side Expansion project combined investments of more than $400 million which in aggregate will add approximately 800 000 decatherms per day of new transportation capacity on our systems.
Also in late December Columbia Gulf initiated a nonbinding open season for its proposed Cameron Access Project in South Louisiana.
With access to various supply basins the project would improve reliability for shippers by transporting natural gas supplies directly into the Cameron LNG terminal via new pipeline from Columbia Gulf System.
With a projected in-service date of mid-2017 initial capacity and investment will be determined based on the results of the open season.
As you can see our pipeline team is maintaining a sharp focus on both the core growth and modernization projects while pursuing complementary and accretive midstream projects.
This balanced approach is designed to meet the evolving needs of the marketplace ensuring the reliability integrity and modernization of our infrastructure and leveraging our assets and mineral position in the shale basins.
For 2013 capital spending we'll invest at least $700 million in our pipeline storage and midstream assets and we'll certainly consider additional investments for the right projects.
Let's now shift to Indiana and our electric business as summarized on Slide 6.
For NIPSCO 2012 the company's 100th anniversary was right in line with our plan to deliver on our core customer reliability and environmental initiatives while focusing on long-term investment and growth.
During the year NIPSCO delivered strong operational and financial performance and advanced several near- and long-term growth in modernization investments.
Operating earnings came in at about $238 million in 2012 compared to about $202 million in 2011.
In addition NIPSCO continued to introduce an array of new customer programs including an air-conditioning cycling program a recently improved green power rate program and a program offering customer incentives for those who drive electric vehicles.
And most notably NIPSCO continues to stay on track with significant environmental investments at its electric generation facilities.
The company's more than $500 million FGD project at its Schahfer generating station remains on schedule and on budget.
These new units will be placed into service in the fourth quarter of this year and in 2014.
At the company's Michigan City generating station preconstruction engineering and design work has begun for another $250 million FGD project.
Construction will start during March of this year.
NIPSCO also is moving forward with an overall investment of up to $0.5 billion for 2 fully-approved electric transmission projects in Northern Indiana that will go into service during the latter part of the decade.
These projects will strengthen the Midwest electrical infrastructure while supporting economic development and providing new jobs.
The 2 approved projects are in process and we'll see additional planning and outreach activities in 2013.
On the legislative front our NIPSCO team together with other state utilities is working tirelessly to advance legislation that would improve the efficiency of the regulatory process as well as establish a framework for recovery of costs associated with ongoing infrastructure investments.
And that initiative is progressing.
Last week Senate Bill 560 was passed by the Indiana Senate and we expect the House to pick up the bill in March.
Parallel with these efforts we're developing a long-term modernization program for NIPSCO's electric transmission and distribution infrastructure.
That effort will include modernization of our core electrical system including replacement of transformers poles lines and other vital equipment.
Stay tuned for more information related to this initiative later in 2013.
You can find additional information about these and other planned investments at NIPSCO in our supplemental slides.
All told in 2013 we'll invest more than $430 million at NIPSCO primarily focused on environmental investments and maintenance of our existing electric infrastructure.
Let's turn now to our Gas Distribution Operations or NGD discussed on Slide 7.
Our NGD team continues to deliver strong steady results from its core business strategy which is centered on aligning long-term infrastructure enhancement programs with complementary customer programs and regulatory initiatives.
For the year NGD operating earnings came in at about $441 million compared to about $425 million in 2011.
Net revenues were up about $37 million excluding trackers primarily reflecting regulatory and infrastructure programs.
The broad array of modernization projects across NGD continues to generate value for stakeholders and sustainable earnings growth.
Part of a more than $10 billion long-term modernization program NGD invested nearly $400 million in these infrastructure programs in 2012.
In the regulatory arena on February 8 Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania reached a unanimous settlement in principle with parties in its rate case.
The parties will submit a joint petition for approval to the PUC by March 18.
At that time we'll provide additional details about the settlement terms.
But what we can say at this time is that we're very pleased with the settlement which is in line with our expectations.
You'll recall the case is tailored after Pennsylvania's recently enacted Act 11 which reflects fully projected future test year under which the company proposes to recover its infrastructure investments through June 2014.
Rates are anticipated to be placed into service in July of this year.
On the legislative front on February 14 the Virginia General Assembly passed legislation allowing natural gas utilities to defer required O&amp;M costs for distribution integrity management plans or DIMP for recovery in future rate cases.
And in Maryland on February 7 Senate Bill 8 and its companion House Bill 89 passed.
The 2 identical bills will now go to the opposite chamber and be assigned to committee.
The bills permit gas utilities to file a pipeline replacement plan to qualify for a fixed annual surcharge to recover associated costs.
If passed and signed by the Governor the act will take effect June 1 2013.
Once again our Gas Distribution game plan is well established straightforward and transparent.
Sustained earnings growth through long-term investment -- infrastructure investments supported by customer programs and progressive regulatory models.
Total capital investment in NGD reached nearly $650 million in 2012 similar level as targeted for 2013.
Like our other 2 business units we've added additional information about our infrastructure investments at NGD in our supplemental slides.
Now a few comments on our 2013 earnings guidance and a bit more perspective on our record capital program summarized on Slide 8.
First and foremost we're maintaining our commitment to long-term and sustainable earnings growth in the range of 5% to 7% per year.
NiSource's non-GAAP earnings outlook for 2013 is $1.50 to $1.60 per share with the midpoint representing 6% growth over 2012 EPS.
Again fueling this will be our record $1.8 billion capital investment program the lion's share of which is comprised of value-adding growth and modernization investments.
The NiSource plan reflects yet another well-designed step-up in investment with the largest increase for 2013 being our modernization and growth initiatives of our pipeline group the great addition to the foundation of accretive value-adding growth in environmental investments at our other 2 businesses.
These and other investments will serve to enhance the long-term value of our assets for the benefit of our customers shareholders and other important constituencies.
Again as we continue to execute our investment-driven business strategy I can assure you that we'll remain balanced disciplined and transparent in how we fund our capital requirements.
I might add parenthetically that our funding efforts received a number of recent boosts in the form of the $120 million in proceeds from the sale of our noncore retail services business and we expected $150 million to $200 million benefit from the availability of bonus depreciation in 2013.
Finally we remain true to our unwavering financial commitments sustainable earnings growth a strong and growing dividend strong liquidity and investment-grade credit.
So as our 2012 results and 2013 outlook attest the NiSource team is continuing to build on a strong track record of delivering collaborative regulatory and commercial solutions while making disciplined investments that will grow earnings on a sustainable basis.
With the full support of our Board of Directors I'm convinced that we have a compelling game plan and the resources and capabilities to continue to deliver on our commitments.
As always we'll communicate with you and all of our stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest and support of NiSource.
Now Carissa let's open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from Citi.
Sorry about the glitch.
Research Division</strong> No no that's pretty -- we've heard it all so there's no problem at all.
On the -- a couple of things.
First on the Gas Transmission and Storage business I know you guys talked about it in the press release and you talked about it in your prepared remarks the other revenue credit category grew quite substantially year-over-year in the quarter.
Can you just go into a little more granularity in terms of what was in that number so we get a better idea of how this is going to kind of move going forward? Hey Faisel just to be clear in the question you're talking about the other revenue category for 2012? Research Division</strong> Yes fourth quarter 2012.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> You have a big number in the other revenue category.
And I think you described it as the royalty revenue and all the stuff that's going on in some of the midstream business but maybe I'm wrong.
It's actually a FERC tracker that relates to the purchase and sale of incidental gas on the system.
And I believe that the acronym is OTRA but it's a tracker that just goes in and out of revenue.
And it's offset in O&amp;M so there is no net benefit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then where does all the gathering and royalty revenue and all those sort of deals show up then? It would show up in the transmission segment in demand and commodity revenues for example.
Yes.
If you look year-over-year the transmission segment increased its revenues net revenues by approximately $28 million or so and that's where the midstream activities would reside.
And new projects and midstream activities.
Research Division</strong> Sure I understand.
Okay.
And then on the test wells you guys talked about in the joint venture can you give us any sort of update on what those wells came up with? Was it dry gas liquids? I mean what are you guys looking at? Yes.
The gasses -- the gas is wet.
We're not going to disclose specifics on flow rates and the like but it's high gas about 1 200 BTU.
And we've said in the past that it's about 6 GPM and that continues to be representative of what we're seeing in the test wells.
Research Division</strong> Is it liquids component? Is it condensate or is it NGLs? NGLs.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right understood.
And then on the reversal of Columbia Gulf what is part of the line we've seen the Columbia full pricing versus Henry Hub pricing kind of come pretty close to parity.
Your reversal doesn't come online till 2014.
I'm just wondering if you can give us any sort of idea of how you think basis is going to move over the next -- in the next 12 months or so until your reversal comes online.
Do you expect the pricing in the Marcellus area to get the disconnect from the rest of the market? Or do you expect to still trade at parity or premium to Hub? Yes.
I just really can't give you a good sense on price.
My crystal ball is not that good.
What I can say is the team continues to explore opportunities to optimize Columbia Gulf and that includes moving gas from north to south.
And so you'll continue to see us prospecting along those lines and the West Side project is a great example of what we're going to continue to try to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question from me.
You mentioned that you're changing the name of natural -- the name of the Natural Gas Transmission group back to Columbia Gas Transmission.
Is there anything we should read into that besides branding? I mean is this...
No purely branding.
The marketplace has always considered Columbia Gas pipeline TICO Columbia Gulf and so we're just going to leverage what's a well-established brand in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no -- there's nothing here that would be a precursor to naming of another company or a subsidiary of the company or anything like that? No no.
No don't read anything else into it.
And your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst of BMO Capital Markets.
Just on the FERC approval of the Columbia settlement were there any modifications? Or was there any couching language that they put out there? And I asked that in the sense that as we look 5 years down the road we'll be re-upping this basically be just commercial essentially for FERC? Or was there any kind of regulatory reticence at all? Carl you broke up at the very end but let me begin at the first part of your question.
The order is absolutely clean.
There was some language about providing guidance on how to package settlements but that was FERC discussion as opposed to point on our transaction or our agreements.
So very very clean without condition.
And then I think you asked about re-upping the settlement after the initial 5-year term.
And clearly that's our intent.
We're going to have to execute the program efficiently and work with our customers and other stakeholders closely.
But the settlement provides us the opportunity to renew and that's what we intend to do.
Great.
No no you answer that.
Sorry I broke up there.
The second question is really on Cameron Access and understanding that it's early days.
I'm not sure if there's any framework as far as our book ending of investment potential but -- that could be done.
Or if not should we be thinking about this in a sense of basically a lateral pipeline off of Columbia Gulf? Or could this be a larger project for instance embedding kind of an upsized West Side Expansion where we're taking more gas form Marcellus? For Cameron Access think of it the way you described it as a lateral of Columbia Gulf System.
And we're not at a point to provide book-ins on the amount of investment.
We just make the observation that we tend to go for singles and doubles and bite-size projects and leave it at that.
Great.
And then last question if I could and this is just more on NIPSCO and very much appreciate the legislative update with Senate Bill 560.
And I think last time we spoke in December you didn't seem to kind of get a sense if there was any big critical mass of opposition developing in the House.
Is that still a fair statement? Or as we've gotten closer to it has anything -- an opposition emerged from that? Well I'll just say it's the legislative process Carl.
The Senate passed the Bill 37 13 so a very healthy margin.
We do believe that there is good support for the legislation in the direction of infrastructure in Indiana.
And your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> What did the retail business contribute in '12 the business that was sold to AGL? Paul this is Steve.
Approximately $0.03 a share.
Research Division</strong> And how many -- you spoke of encouraging results.
How many wells were drilled? We had  handful of test wells being drilled.
We're bringing online 2 production wells and we're in the process of drilling 2 production wells.
And when I say we Hilcorp is actually doing all of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any update for plans on the second cryo plant you have an ups on? No update at this point.
We're still bullish and optimistic about phases 2 and 3 of Pennant but it's just too early to provide any specificity around timing size and that sort of thing.
Your next question comes from the line of John Edwards of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick.
I take it the year-over-year lower volumes on Columbia Gulf that's because of the growing production up in the Marcellus? Also weather.
Really warm weather conditions in 2012 so that too had an impact.
It was not trivial I would add.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then okay similar -- I guess similar for the lower wholesale electricity sales? The reason why I'm asking because it looks like -- on the weather it looked like this year wasn't as cold as last year.
I mean it was a little bit colder than last year excuse me at least on the Columbia Gulf thing.
So I guess -- I mean you are having pushback from going production in the Northeast correct? Oh yes.
Oh sure.
We're seeing the impact of Marcellus on the Columbia Gulf volumes.
And I mentioned earlier that's why the team continues to look at opportunities to optimize Columbia Gulf and move gas north to south and the West Side Expansion is a good example and the team pursues other opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm sorry and then on the wholesale electricity sales those were down.
Is that a weather issue also? Or...
Yes we're going to have to get back to you with specificity around that.
Frankly I don't track it that much because it's just not a big part of the business.
But it could be a variety of factors.
And we'll have to ask Randy to provide that detail.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> On Senate Bill 560 what came out of the Senate? Is that -- does that address generation and distribution? Or was that trim down coming out of the Senate? It's primarily T and D sort of investment opportunities as well as natural gas and in particular expansion of gas natural gas service to rural areas or underserved portions of Indiana.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this would be a tracker that would emulate like the gas tracker pipeline? Yes.
Modernization investments and transmission distributions storage natural gas rehabilitation and the like.
That's what the tracker is designed to promote those sorts of investments.
Legislation also provides for future-looking test year statutory deadline to deal with rate cases things like are included in the legislation as it currently is drafted.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it's now going to the House? Yes the bills will cross over from the Senate to the House and vice versa in March.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned an AC cycling program.
Is that one of these programs with the smart thermostats? Yes.
For the most part it is.
Research Division</strong> And who owns those? Do you? Or is that something that can go into rate base or not material? Yes we own those.
And by the way they're not material to the overall investment opportunity very small program.
And there are no further questions.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Skaggs for closing remarks.
Thank you.
And thanks for everyone participating this morning.
Again we appreciate your interest and your support.
Have a good day.
Thanks.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the quarter 1 2013 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Patrick and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President of corporate affairs.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Patrick and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
The focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the first quarter of 2013 and to provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we will refer to the supplemental slides available on nisource.com.
I'd like to remind you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking and those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning those risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen and good morning and thanks for joining us.
For today's agenda we'll touch on key highlights from another solid quarter.
We'll discuss our financial results and our operational highlights from each of our business units and then we'll open the call to your questions.
Let's start on slide 3 in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning.
As we noted in this morning's press release in just a few months the NiSource team has made significant progress on a number of fronts: financial regulatory legislative and infrastructure investment.
From a financial perspective NiSource's first quarter results were well in line with our expectations and our full year earnings guidance of $1.50 to $1.60 per share non-GAAP.
We'll provide a bit more context on our financial results in just a few moments.
One of our most significant recent achievements is new Indiana legislation that improved the efficiency of the regulatory process and provides a framework for modernizing Indiana's gas and electric infrastructure.
This landmark legislation dovetails nicely with NIPSCO's long-term strategy to modernize its core utility system.
Another key development during the quarter was the filing of Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania's unanimous rate case settlement with the Pennsylvania Commission.
Among other things that settlement reflects a $55 million revenue increase and provides more enhanced rate design.
And as we noted during our year-end call in February our team is actively executing on the FERC-approved Columbia Gas Transmission modernization program.
That program includes a steady stream of infrastructure investments that'll enhance the integrity reliability and flexibility of the Columbia Gas Transmission system.
Looking across NiSource I'd note that we're fully on track with our overall capital investment program which you'll recall is targeted to reach approximately $1.8 billion in 2013.
And we continue to support those investments with a balanced and disciplined corporate financing strategy most recent example being the issuance earlier this month of $750 million in 30-year notes at a very attractive rate.
And finally I'd point out that each of the 3 major credit rating agencies recently reaffirmed NiSource's stable investment grade credit ratings.
So in a nutshell continued steady disciplined execution of our strategy during the first quarter keeping us squarely in line with our performance expectations for 2013 and beyond.
With those highlights let's take a closer look at our first quarter starting with our financial results on Slide 4.
As you can see NiSource delivered net operating earnings non-GAAP of about $215 million or $0.69 per share during the first quarter.
That compares with about $214 million or $0.76 per share for the same period last year.
Our operating earnings for the quarter came in at about $428 million.
As I mentioned these results are in line with our expectations and the guidance range we announced earlier this year.
It's important to note that are first quarter results fully reflect our 2012 $340 million forward equity issuance which added approximately 24 million common shares when compared to the same period last year.
That impacted the quarter by about $0.07.
I'd also note that over the balance of the year NiSource's earnings will be favorably impacted by a number of regulatory outcomes and growth projects which are outlined on the supplemental slides.
On a GAAP basis our income from continuing operations for the quarter was about $215 million or $0.69 per share compared to about $193 million or $0.68 per share in the first quarter of last year.
Schedules 1 and 2 to our earnings release shows the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciling items.
Turning to our individual business unit results let's start at our Columbia Pipeline business or CPG that's summarized on Slide 5.
From an earnings standpoint CPG generated operating earnings of about $133 million in the first quarter compared to about $139 million during the same time last year.
As I mentioned the most significant highlight is the FERC's approval of our landmark system modernization agreement between Columbia Gas Transmission and its customers.
With a clear path forward and a transparent recovery mechanism the team is already in full execution mode.
This long-term program ultimately is expected to involve $4 billion to $5 billion in investment to ensure the ongoing safety reliability and flexibility of our system.
Our pipeline and midstream development teams also are continuing to develop and execute on infrastructure investment opportunities in existing and new markets including projects to serve the Utica and Marcellus Shale regions.
For example our approximately $160 million Big Pine Gathering System is now in service capable of transporting more than 400 million cubic feet per day of Marcellus shale production.
That project is underpinned by a long-term gathering agreement with XTO Energy.
We also recently signed a separate gathering agreement on the Big Pine System with PennEnergy.
They expect to begin flowing gas by the end of the year or early in 2014.
As I mentioned on our last call our joint Utica Shale venture with Hilcorp Pennant Midstream LLC continues to make good progress.
The Pennant pipeline and processing facilities are on schedule to be completed and in service by the end of 2013.
As a reminder NiSource is responsible for $150 million of the total investment in Pennant's first phase.
From a production standpoint our resource development arrangement with Hilcorp is progressing as well.
Hilcorp remains one of the most active companies in the Utica in Northeast Ohio and Western Pennsylvania and they're currently drilling a seventh test delineation well.
Preliminary results are encouraging and early indications of liquids content are consistent with active wells in the area.
And perhaps even more notably Hilcorp is now actively drilling 3 production wells in the Brinker area.
They're in various stages of completion.
Our commercial team also is moving ahead on a new project to support a large Virginia industrial customer's conversion from a coal-fired boiler to a gas-fired boiler.
That project will extend our Columbia Gas Transmission system about 13 miles to an interconnect with Columbia Gas of Virginia who will also extend its system to serve that customer.
The total investment for NiSource is about $40 million with an in-service date of October 2014.
At Millennium Pipeline the partnership is executing on 2 concurrent compressor projects that will significantly increase capacity on the pipeline.
The first project the so-called Minisink Compressor will increase Millennium's capacity at its interconnections with Algonquin Gas Transmission to -- I'm sorry 675 000 dekatherms.
That project is targeted for completion in May.
The second project the Hancock Compressor will increase capacity to 800 000 dekatherms in Delaware County New York and is expected to be placed into service by the end of this year.
And finally as we discussed in prior calls our East Side and West Side Expansion projects are on budget and on schedule.
These projects represent a combined investment of more than $400 million and together will add approximately 800 000 dekatherms per day of new transportation capacity on our systems.
An initial level of service has already begun on the West Side Expansion.
As you can see our pipeline team is moving forward on a number of fronts.
Leveraging our assets in the shale basins while maintaining a sharp focus on core growth and modernization projects.
Before moving to NIPSCO I wanted to remind everyone the detailed information about infrastructure projects across NiSource are available in the appendix of our supplemental slides.
Let's now shift to Indiana and our electric business as summarized on Slide 6.
During the quarter NIPSCO delivered strong operational and financial performance while advancing several significant customer legislative and regulatory programs.
From an earnings standpoint operating earnings came in at about $65 million in the first quarter compared to about $49 million last year during the same period.
The most recent highlight as I mentioned previously was legislation that supports NIPSCO's long-term utility modernization plans.
The legislation reinforces the need for a sustainable and reliable energy infrastructure the level of that investment required to meet this need.
Notably the legislation also will improve the efficiency of the regulatory process in a number of important respects.
NIPSCO also is on track with significant environmental investments at its electric generation facilities including our more than $500 million scrubber project at our Schahfer Generating Station.
Those new units will be placed into service in the fourth quarter of this year and in 2014.
Construction work has also begun at our Michigan City Generating Station where NIPSCO is installing another $250 million FGD unit.
On the transmission front NIPSCO is moving forward with an investment of up to $500 million for 2 fully approved electric transmission projects in Northern Indiana.
These projects will strengthen the Midwest electric infrastructure while supporting economic development and providing new jobs.
Planning and outreach activities are the key focus for these projects in 2013 with in-service currently targeted to the latter part of this decade.
And on the customer front NIPSCO has begun installing nearly 1 million gas and electric automated meter reading devices across its service territory.
At a total investment of about $90 million over 3 years these devices will aid in the efficiency and accuracy of our meter reading.
And finally I'd note that NIPSCO recently received regulatory approval for the introduction of a Green Power Rate pilot program.
This complements a variety of renewable energy and customer programs in Indiana and allows customers to designate a portion or all of their power to be generated by renewable energy sources.
Truly a milestone quarter that will create sustainable long-term benefits across all of NIPSCO's service territory.
Let's turn now to our Gas Distribution Operations or NGD discussed on Slide 7.
Our NGD team continues to deliver strong results by aligning it's $10 billion infrastructure replacement and enhancement program with a variety of complementary customer and regulatory initiatives.
From an earnings standpoint NGD operating earnings for the quarter came in at about $233 million compared to about $245 million for the same period in 2012.
These results remain in line with our expectations.
Over the balance of the year we'll have additional earnings growth including new rate to Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania and increased IRP tracker rates at Columbia Gas of Ohio.
As I noted a key highlight of the quarter is the unanimous settlement in mid-March of our Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania rate case the settlement awaiting final PUC decision will increase annual revenues by $55 million through a simplified residential rate design that includes a weather normalization adjustment and full recovery of safety-related expenditures.
Notably we're the first utility in the state to establish rates based on a fully forecasted test year.
Rates are anticipated to be placed into service this July.
Also on the regulatory front the Columbia Gas of Massachusetts and Columbia Gas of Maryland filed new rate cases.
In Massachusetts the case is designed to support the company's expanded infrastructure efforts with timely recovery.
The case seeks an increase in annual revenues of $30 million.
In Maryland the case seeks an annual revenue increase of about $5 million.
We expect the decision in Massachusetts during the first quarter of 2014 and in Maryland during the third quarter of this year.
On the legislative front a new law effective January 2013 now allows Columbia Gas of Virginia and other Virginia-based natural gas utilities to defer certain costs associated with safety compliance programs for recovery in future rate cases.
Meanwhile Maryland passed legislation permitting gas utilities to recover pipeline modernization costs on a timely basis.
That new legislation is awaiting the Governor's signature and is expected to take effect June 1.
Consistent with our plan our Gas Distribution team is continuing to execute on its well-established strategy of investing in safety and reliability while providing innovative programs to customers and solid financial performance for shareholders.
Last but certainly not least on the financing and liquidity front.
At the end of the first quarter NiSource maintained approximately $900 million in net available liquidity.
Beyond the $750 million debt issued earlier this month NiSource took additional steps to improve its liquidity position.
This includes increasing our 3-year bank term loan by $75 million to a total of $325 million and extending its maturity date to April 15 2016.
In addition we increased our commercial paper program from a limit of $500 million to $1.5 billion this program is supported by our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility.
Finally before opening the call to your questions I want to once again reaffirm our full year earnings guidance range of $1.50 to $1.60 per share non-GAAP.
I also want to reiterate our unwavering financial commitments which are to maintain investment-grade credit ratings as recently reaffirmed by the rating agencies sustainable earnings growth of 5% to 7% annually a strong growing dividend of 3% to 5% annually robust liquidity again as evidenced by our disciplined financial strategy including our recent debt issuance and other enhancements.
As always we'll communicate with you and all our stakeholders about these and all other matters of importance in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thanks for your participation today and for your ongoing interest in and support of NiSource.
We deeply appreciate it.
Now Patrick we can open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Bob does that new Indiana legislation -- does that cover gas distribution too? It covers gas distribution for the enhancements in the process and also for extensions of gas facilities into underserved areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then like if I look at -- there was a slide which one is it? I'm sorry.
It showed like future transmission projects here it is Slide 14 for NIPSCO.
I assume some of that if not all of it is under FERC but would that kind of a thing be covered too under the new legislation? No.
The legislation is primarily distribution-oriented and what I would call more routine transmission modernization as opposed to large-scale expansions or a greenfield construction of transmission.
Those sorts of major projects let's say are the jurisdiction of MISO and ultimately FERC approval.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then like -- one other following on with that.
So like the AMR meters those would be that tight even though that might be too early for this? Too early for that.
And that's going ultimately be recovered via rate case process or proceeding.
Research Division</strong> But if you installed more of those AMR meters that would be covered under the new legislation correct? Frankly Charles great question.
I don't know about that issue specifically.
What I would say I think as a good baseline is we and the other utilities are going to have to file a 7-year program of activity.
Now the Commission's going to review that program stakeholders are going to review that program and ultimately have a sign-off on the composition of that program.
So I think that's going to be the venue if you will or vehicle that's going to be more determinative of what sort of investment and activity is in or is out.
[Operator Instructions] All right Patrick we know it's a busy day out there in the market.
We certainly again appreciate everybody's interest.
And I'm certain we're going to field follow-up questions later.
So again thank you for your interest.
Thanks for your support.
We'll see you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janada and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed.
Thank you Janada and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
As you know the focus of our call today is to review our financial performance for the second quarter of 2013 and to provide a business update.
We'll then open the call up to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'll turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen and good morning and thanks for joining us.
For today's agenda we'll touch on key highlights from another solid quarter.
I'll ask Steve Smith our Chief Financial Officer to summarize our financial results.
I'll then touch on some key upcoming execution markers and initiatives across each of our business units.
And then we'll open the call to your questions.
Let's start with key takeaways on Slide 3 in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning.
First and foremost as we announced in our earnings release NiSource's infrastructure-focused investment strategy once again delivered financial results in line with our expectations and consistent with our 2013 earnings guidance range of $1.50 to $1.60 per share non-GAAP.
We also announced that thanks to our robust and growing inventory of accretive infrastructure investment opportunities we're enhancing our 2013 capital program.
We're now targeting an investment level of about $2 billion for 2013 up from our original $1.8 billion plan.
Virtually all of these additional capital investments are allocated to track infrastructure replacement and modernization programs.
And just a reminder about 75% of our capital investments are focused on accretive growth and other revenue-generating opportunities.
Another notable development during the quarter was the successful completion of our Pennsylvania rate case.
We placed new forward-looking rates into effect July 1 as part of a settlement that in addition to other benefits will increase annual revenues by about $55 million.
Meanwhile our team at the Columbia Pipeline Group or CPG is on track with the initial phases of our landmark system modernization program.
With a number of projects currently in flight we're on pace to make our first tracker filing by the end of the year with recovery slated to start in February 2014.
And at NIPSCO we became the first Indiana utility to file an electric infrastructure modernization plan under recently enacted Senate Bill 560.
NIPSCO's 7-year $1 billion plus plan involves systematic replacement and modernization of our core electric utility infrastructure.
We anticipate action by the commission and initiation of the investment early in 2014.
In a nutshell we're pleased to report continued steady disciplined execution of our strategy during the second quarter.
With delivery on an expanding array of customer regulatory and growth initiatives our team's performance has kept us squarely on target to deliver on our earnings commitments for 2013.
So with that overview I'll turn the call over to Steve Smith to take a closer look at our second quarter financial results referenced on Page 4 of our supplemental slides.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned our team again delivered a very strong quarter.
NiSource delivered net operating earnings non-GAAP of about $73 million or $0.23 per share during the second quarter.
That compares with about $64 million or $0.22 per share for the same period last year.
Our operating earnings for the quarter came in at about $195 million.
As we noted on our last quarterly call our results reflect our $340 million forward sale equity issuance completed in the third quarter of 2012 which added approximately 24 million common shares compared to the same period last year.
For 2013 we expect this to have about an $0.08 per share impact on earnings.
On a GAAP basis our income from continuing operations for the quarter was about $72 million or $0.23 per share compared to about $68 millio n or $0.25 per share in the second quarter of last year.
Schedules 1 and 2 to our earnings release show the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciling items.
Turning to our business units.
Columbia Pipeline Group or CPG delivered operating earnings of about $89 million in the second quarter compared to $92 million for the prior year.
Net revenues excluding trackers were down about $8 million at CPG for the quarter due to reduced depreciation rates resulting from the Columbia Transmission customer settlement.
CPG remains on track to deliver earnings in line with our plan for the year.
NIPSCO Electric delivered operating earnings of about $59 million compared to $60 million for the prior year.
Net revenues excluding trackers were up about $7 million for the quarter partially as a result of increased recovery of environmental investments.
And NiSource Gas Distribution or NGD delivered operating earnings of $52 million compared to $51 million for 2012.
NGD net revenues again excluding trackers were up about $21 million for the quarter due primarily to our infrastructure replacement programs.
As Bob noted we're pleased to report that we're squarely on track to deliver earnings within our guidance range for the year.
Turning to Slide 5.
Let's quickly touch on our financing and liquidity highlights.
Thanks to disciplined capital management practices our liquidity position remains strong at approximately $1.4 billion as of the end of the second quarter.
We expect this position to maintain its strength throughout the year.
This is supported by a number of developments in the first half of the year including the sale of our retail services business proactive financing and the extension of bonus depreciation.
Finally I will note that as of June 30 our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 58.6% which is what we expect to effectively maintain on an ongoing basis give or take 1% or so.
Before turning the call back to Bob I would like to take the opportunity to reiterate NiSource's core financial commitments which are: maintaining our stable investment grade credit ratings; growing earnings by 5% to 7% annually; growing the dividend by 3% to 5% annually; and maintaining a strong liquidity position all while supporting our approximately $2 billion investment program.
With that I'll turn the call back to Bob.
Thanks Steve.
Let's start with the CPG highlights on Slide 6.
Jimmy Staton and his team are working overtime to develop and deliver a diverse mix of value-adding infrastructure investment opportunities.
At the forefront Columbia Gas Transmission is making good progress on its long-term system modernization program.
And as I noted earlier we're on track to file our first year modernization tracker filing by the end of this year with recovery slated to start in February 2014.
As you know the settlement covers the initial 5 years of a projected modernization program of $4 billion to $5 billion over 10 to 15 years.
On the midstream front with the Big Pine Gathering System in service with XTO Energy we're also scheduled to start providing long-term gathering services for PennEnergy later this year.
Big Pine is capable of transporting more than 400 million cubic feet per day of Marcellus Shale gas.
Phase 1 of our Pennant project which we call the Hickory Bend Gathering System is also tracking well.
In fact the initial gathering service is already in progress on part of the system to accommodate Hilcorp's early Utica Shale production.
The processing and gathering facilities 200 million cubic feet per day and 600 million cubic feet per day respectively are expected to start by the end of this year.
From a production standpoint our resource development arrangement with Hilcorp is progressing according to plan.
Although the development of the acreage is still in its early stages 6 wells are now complete.
Five of those wells are currently producing and with each well drilling and stimulation techniques continue to be optimized.
Notably we remain encouraged as the initial production flows are consistent with some of the better flows reported in the area.
Drilling activity will continue to accelerate and we anticipate that by 2014 we will be completing 25 to 30 wells per year.
All in all very much in line with our expectations.
Our commercial team also is moving ahead on a new project to modernize and upgrade our existing LNG peaking facility in Chesapeake Virginia.
It's a $30 million 3-year upgrade.
In sync with this upgrade all existing costumers signed new long-term agreements at increased rates to support the projects.
At Millennium Pipeline the partnership placed the approximately $45 million Minisink Compressor station into service in the second quarter and anticipates placing the Hancock Compressor station into service by the end of this year or early 2014.
This approximately $45 million project will increase the pipeline's delivery capacity to 850 000 dekatherms per day.
And as we discussed in prior calls our East Side and West Side Expansion projects are on schedule.
These projects represent a combined investment of more than $400 million and together will add about 800 000 dekatherms per day of new transportation capacity on our systems.
The initial level of service has already begun on the West Side Expansion.
Let's now shift to Indiana in our electric business as summarized on Slide 7.
NIPSCO continued to deliver positive results on many many fronts in the first half of the year.
As I mentioned earlier this month we were the first to file a 7-year electric infrastructure modernization plan with the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission.
Our plan which will kick into gear in early 2014 includes investments in our core distribution and transmission systems which are good for the sustainability and reliability of infrastructure in Northern Indiana and support continued economic development and job creation in our service territory.
I would also note that NIPSCO will file a similar infrastructure modernization plan for our gas operations later this year.
The plan will address system modernization and expansion to rural areas of Northern Indiana.
NIPSCO remains on track with the $0.5 billion plus FGD project at our Schahfer Generating Station.
These new units will be placed into service in the fourth quarter of this year and in 2014.
Construction is also moving ahead at our Michigan City Generating Station where NIPSCO is installing another $250 million FGD unit.
On the electric transmission front NIPSCO is moving forward with an overall investment of up to $0.5 billion for 2 electric transmission projects in Northern Indiana.
These projects will strengthen the Midwest electrical infrastructure while supporting economic development and providing new jobs.
The planning and outreach activities are the key focus for those projects in 2013 with in-service targeted for the latter part of the decade.
Final route selection is anticipated in August of this year for the first project the so-called Reynolds-Topeka line.
So as you can see across many fronts NIPSCO is generating long-term sustainable results for customers communities and shareholders.
Let's turn now to our Gas Distribution Operations discussed on Slide 8.
Our NGD team continues to deliver strong results by aligning its long-term $10 billion infrastructure replacement and enhancement program with a variety of complementary customer and regulatory initiatives.
As I noted earlier we placed new forward-looking rights into effect on July 1 at Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania.
Also on the regulatory front Columbia Gas of Kentucky Columbia Gas of Massachusetts and Columbia Gas of Maryland all have rate cases in front of their respective commissions.
In Kentucky the case seeks an annual revenue increase of about $17 million.
The case also includes a more modern rate design using a revenue normalization adjustment.
In Massachusetts the case is designed to support the company's expanded infrastructure efforts with timely recovery.
The case seeks increased annual revenues of about $30 million.
And in Maryland we're seeking an annual revenue increase of about $5 million.
We expect a decision with rates effective in Kentucky in January 2014 in Massachusetts during the first quarter of 2014 and in Maryland in late September of this year.
Finally in June NIPSCO along with the Indiana Consumer Counselor and other stakeholders filed a unanimous agreement with the IURC to extend NIPSCO's 2010 natural gas customer rate settlement through 2020.
The decision on the filing is expected by the end of this year.
This is a great win-win settlement that will continue to deliver benefits for all our major stakeholders.
And in Virginia Columbia Gas of Virginia received an order approving an amendment to its SAVE program for infrastructure replacement.
The order authorized an annual spending level of $25 million up from about $20 million.
Consistent with our plan our NGD team is continuing to execute on its established strategy of investing in safety and reliability while providing innovative programs to customers and solid financial performance for shareholders.
To wrap up teams across NiSource are continuing to deliver on our core investment and customer-focused strategy and we are well positioned to meet our growth and other commitments on a disciplined balanced and sustainable basis going forward.
As always we'll communicate with you and all our stakeholders about these and other matters of importance in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest and in support of NiSource.
Janada let's now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk a little bit about kind of year-to-date results are down kind of the earnings projected for the balance of the year and the drivers there? Yes I'm going to toss that to Steve Paul.
Yes sure.
Thanks Paul.
The year-to-date results so far are right in line with our expectations for our guidance range of $1.50 to $1.60.
And I would note that we had a number of items that came in the first 6 months that will be benefiting the latter half of the year.
For example the Columbia Pennsylvania rate case is effective July 1 so that's going to contribute significantly to the latter half of 2013.
We also had an IRP filing in Ohio in the May time frame so we'll be enjoying those benefits throughout the balance of the year.
And in addition we also had an environmental recovery mechanism tracker in Indiana filed at that time frame as well which will benefit us going forward.
On the pipeline side we also have a number of projects that will be coming up to speed for us in the latter part of the year.
First is the Pennant project and the Big Pine project both of which that Bob mentioned and also the Millennium Minisink project for the latter half of the year.
So we feel very comfortable about where we stand year to date.
We think we're squarely in line with where we expect to be and believe our guidance is appropriate and are reaffirming it.
Research Division</strong> And I guess you've obviously basically lapped the new shares as well? That's correct.
Correct.
Yes.
Paul I would just say just from our perspective a clean quarter.
And again what's notable are the accomplishments the team posted on the initiatives.
Research Division</strong> And is this Michigan City new capital or have we talked about that before? It's been in the plan and we have talked about it fairly extensively.
So it's reflected in the numbers.
Research Division</strong> And then just with the increased capital this year any updates on financing plans? Well I would say as you know we did a $750 million 30-year bond deal not too long ago at 4.8%.
With respect to additional financing in 2013 we're looking at potentially tapping the markets in the late third quarter or early fourth quarter in the $300 million to $500 million range.
We haven't yet determined what the appropriate maturity will be there.
But we expect to do some capital markets activity on the debt side in late third quarter or early fourth quarter of this year.
Yes Paul.
And you'll recall that at our Analyst Day last year we suggested the need for equity in and around 2015 in an amount that would be similar to what we did a couple of years ago.
And we believe for planning purposes and modeling that continues to be a sound assumption.
And Steve can mention a couple of things that have enhanced our cash position.
In fact he alluded to those in his prepared remarks.
But Steve maybe you can give a little more color around that.
Right.
Thanks Bob.
Yes the other things that we were able to accomplish here in the first of the year was the sale of our NiSource retail services business for approximately $120 million.
The other benefit that we're enjoying is the extension of bonus depreciation which should contribute approximately $250 million of benefit to us.
So that's in excess of $350 million of incremental cash that are helping us spend at a slightly higher rate this year.
Research Division</strong> I guess you didn't have those items on the radar when you talked about equity in '15? We did not.
We did not.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> When I look at Slide 10 it looks like the 2013 CapEx for gas distribution is up about $100 million.
And then when I go to Slide 16 I don't see any changes versus this slide in the last quarter.
So is it just an acceleration of these projects is what's going on? There's nothing that was added that I see is that correct? That's correct in part.
It is an acceleration of some of the spending that we have inherently with the infrastructure replacement programs.
It's also a bit of an uptick in new business.
So we are seeing some organic growth if that's the right term in new customer additions.
And that's helped elevate the number.
Research Division</strong> Bob what state is the growth coming from? We're seeing it across all of the companies.
Typically we see more in Virginia relatively speaking but we're seeing a bit of an uptick across the board.
Now having said that it's not dramatic.
But over the past couple of years we've seen the new adds come back.
All told across the Gas Distribution group probably $100 million $125 million is spent on new customer additions -- will be spent for new customer additions in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that would account for let's say about half of the $200 million step up is natural gas? And then the rest of it was...
It was at CPG.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And again that's just an acceleration? Or I guess you added also the LNG project? You're really going down the right track.
It's a number of relatively small incremental projects that surfaced during the year and we felt confident enough to launch those programs and increase the spend.
Research Division</strong> Now I notice under Pennant the gas gathering went from 400 million cubic feet per day to 600.
Is that part of that acceleration or things are going better on the drilling? No no.
It's still consistent with plan.
So it's still consistent with plan.
We've talked about additional phases down the road for Pennant.
We're not there yet but as I suggested in the prepared remarks we're very encouraged by initial drilling results.
We're encouraged by the additional -- or the drilling program for 2014.
And so Pennant remains on track.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then moving just to Indiana on Senate Bill 560.
If you take Senate Bill 560 and the trackers there and you combine that with the trackers you have for the environmental spend on the generation I mean it is -- it would appeared to me that that covers a good chunk of your CapEx and you might avoid a general rate case for quite a while.
Is that a correct way of looking at it? Well your first point is correct.
Across NiSource about 75% of our spend is via tracking mechanisms or relatively frequent rate cases.
So a number like that 75% is probably relatively a good number to use at NIPSCO.
Now the point on rate case the Senate Bill 560 requires a filing company somebody participating in that program to file a rate case within that 7-year period.
Our current expectations and they're current would suggest we would file at the latter stages of that 7-year period.
But that's as we stand here today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I realize it's a new program but on the Gas Distribution side the Senate Bill 560 that tracker is really it appears to me very similar to the trackers you have in other states with respect to gas distributions.
Is that correct? Similar.
There are some differences but it's very very similar.
It's akin to what we see in other states.
[Operator Instructions] And we do have a follow-up question from the line of Charles Fishman of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I've got another one but I wanted to give other people a chance.
Effective tax rate I notice both first and the second quarter was down.
Do you see that going on for the second half? And is there any guidance you can provide? Yes no.
Charles that's a deferred tax liability that we had on the balance sheet we didn't need to carry any longer.
And so that benefit was approximately $4 million in the quarter.
And we also had a few other items that contribute $1 million here or there.
So we don't expect that effective tax rate to continue at that rate.
We anticipate that it will bounce back up.
Research Division</strong> So we'd be still looking at maybe mid-30s for the remainder of the year? Yes.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the only thing I had was just out of -- really more of a curiosity on the transmission.
You said you're going to the second round of public hearings on those lines? We just completed that the second round.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious what's the difference between the second round and the first round? What actually transpires? Well it's a process.
So the first round you basically introduce the projects.
You introduce the approximate routing.
The second round you come back with more concrete information that begins to hone in or narrow down to a more specific route.
And again you give the opportunity to folks to vet that to lodge their concerns their interests and the like and we try to be responsive.
So it's part of a comprehensive outreach plan.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Bob Skaggs for any closing remarks.
All right Janada.
Thank you everybody.
Again we appreciate your participation your interest and support.
And we will see you in the not-too-distant future.
Have a great day.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2013 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Parita and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kettering Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Parita and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I'd like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
With us this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the third quarter of 2013 and to provide a business update.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on www.nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this call will be forward looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning those risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'll turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today we'll be sharing highlights from another quarter of solid execution and continued strong performance by the NiSource team.
As usual our agenda will be crisp.
First I'll touch on several execution highlights and key takeaways from the third quarter.
Next Steve will provide an overview of our financial results.
And finally we'll update you on upcoming key markers and ongoing initiatives.
That should leave plenty of time for your questions.
With that agenda in mind let's get started with key takeaways from the third quarter.
You'll see these listed on Slide 3 in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning.
First and foremost as you saw in our earnings release NiSource's infrastructure-focused business strategy continues to deliver solid financial results.
Our third quarter performance was squarely in line with our expectations and consistent with our 2013 earnings guidance range of $1.50 to $1.60 per share non-GAAP.
As you know the engine driving our performance is capital investment specifically earnings-accretive investments and infrastructure growth and long-term modernization programs.
In that regard I'm pleased to note that we're fully on track to deliver on NiSource's enhanced $2 billion capital investment program for 2013.
As I've noted previously about 75% of that program is earmarked for earnings-accretive growth and revenue-generating investments.
Underpinning our infrastructure investment strategy is NiSource's deep and growing inventory of quality infrastructure investment opportunities.
During the third quarter our team continued to enhance and execute against that investment inventory.
For example our Indiana gas and electric utility NIPSCO filed a 7-year $700 million plan to modernize and expand its core natural gas system.
This follows on the heels of NIPSCO's $1 billion electric modernization plan.
As you may recall these plans synch with recently enacted Indiana legislation that encourages energy infrastructure investment.
The gas plan will replace aging infrastructure and extend service to rural areas among other items.
We anticipate commission action and initiation of those investments in mid-2014.
NIPSCO also successfully extended its 2010 gas rate settlement through 2020.
This is a great win-win settlement that will continue to deliver benefits for all our major stakeholders.
Meanwhile our team at the Columbia Pipeline Group or CPG is on track with the first year of our landmark pipeline system modernization program.
We're on pace to make our first tracker filing with the FERC by the end of the year.
Our 2013 investments will total about $300 million with recoveries slated to start February 2014.
Our CPG team also continued to execute against our midstream strategy with the announcement of a new $60 million natural gas liquids pipeline project that will support the new Hickory Bend processing facility.
The NGL line is targeted to be in service in the third quarter 2014 and will have a transport capacity up to approximately 90 000 barrels of natural gas liquids a day.
And last but certainly not least our gas distribution teams continue to execute on a broad array of infrastructure replacement and enhancement programs while advancing the complementary agenda of customer and regulatory initiatives.
In fact our NGD teams are on track to complete a record $765 million capital investment program this year.
Meanwhile our team is successfully managing several key regulatory proceedings closely linked to our infrastructure investments including ongoing cases in Kentucky and Massachusetts.
So to recap it's another solid quarter of execution against NiSource's well-established business plan.
The team's performance is squarely in line with our outlook for 2013 and consistent with our commitment to build shareholder value through long-term sustainable earnings and dividend growth.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve Smith to take a closer look at our third quarter financial results referenced on Page 4 of our supplemental slides.
Steve? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned our team again delivered a very strong quarter.
NiSource delivered net operating earnings non-GAAP of about $57 million or $0.18 per share during the third quarter.
That compares with about $12 million or $0.04 per share for the same period last year.
Our operating earnings for the quarter came in at about $184 million.
As we noted on our last call our results for 2013 reflect our $340 million forward sale equity issuance completed on September 10 2012 which added approximately 24 million common shares to the balance sheet.
On a GAAP basis our income from continuing operations for the quarter was about $50 million or $0.16 per share compared to about $17 million or $0.05 per share in the third quarter of last year.
Schedules 1 and 2 to our earnings release show the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciling items.
Turning to our business units.
Columbia Pipeline Group or CPG delivered operating earnings of about $99 million in the third quarter compared to about $39 million for the prior year.
Net revenues at CPG excluding trackers were up about $68 million for the quarter primarily due to the Columbia Transmission modernization settlement charge in the third quarter of 2012.
CPG remains on track to deliver earnings in line with our plan for the year.
NIPSCO Electric delivered operating earnings of about $91 million for the quarter compared to $78 million in 2012.
Net revenues excluding trackers were up about $12 million for the quarter due primarily to increased recovery of environmental investments and higher industrial and commercial margins.
And NiSource Gas Distribution reported operating earnings -- an operating earnings loss of about $0.5 million for the quarter compared to operating earnings of $9.7 million in 2012.
Net revenues again excluding trackers were up about $12 million for the quarter due primarily to our regulatory progress and infrastructure investments.
Operating expenses were up due primarily to higher environmental costs increased outside services and administrative costs and higher depreciation from increased capital spend.
Like our other business units NGD remains on track to deliver earnings for the year in line with our expectations.
As Bob noted we're pleased to report that we're squarely on track to deliver earnings well within our guidance range for the year which we are reaffirming at $1.50 to $1.60 per share again non-GAAP.
Turning to Slide 5 let's quickly touch on our financing and liquidity highlights.
I'm pleased to report that our liquidity position remains strong at approximately $1.4 billion as of the end of the third quarter.
This is supported by a number of recent developments including the 30-year issuance of $500 million in debt earlier this month.
We also increased our revolving credit facility by $500 million to $2 billion and extended the facility through September 2018.
As of September 30 our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 59.7%.
Before turning the call back to Bob I would like to take the opportunity to reiterate NiSource's core financial commitments which are: maintaining our stable investment grade credit ratings; growing earnings by 5% to 7% annually; growing the dividend by 3% to 5% annually; and maintaining a strong liquidity position all while supporting a robust investment program.
And as Bob mentioned earlier our team's continued strong focus on execution keeps us squarely on track to deliver on these core commitments.
With that I'll turn the call back to Bob.
Yes.
Steve thank you.
Before opening the call to questions let me quickly hit on some key markers and ongoing initiatives across each of our business units.
Let's start with CPG highlights on Slide 6.
Our CPG team continues to deliver on all fronts from modernization to midstream to regulated pipeline growth projects.
At the forefront Columbia Gas Transmission is making solid progress on its long-term system modernization program.
As I mentioned earlier we're on track to file our first modernization tracker filing by year end.
That filing will include qualifying investments of about $300 million with recoveries slated to start in February 2014.
On the midstream front in addition to the new NGL pipeline project I mentioned work also is progressing well on the Hickory Bend processing facility and gathering pipeline in the heart of the Utica Shale.
In fact just earlier this week we hosted a dedication ceremony at the processing facility which was attended by Hilcorp CEO Jeff Hildebrand many stakeholders within the local community and Governor John Kasich of Ohio.
The first phase of the project will provide 200 million cubic feet per day of processing and 600 million cubic feet per day of gathering starting by the end of this year.
As we noted last quarter one lateral on the Hickory Bend system called the Carbon Limestone lateral is already transporting Hilcorp's early Utica production.
From a production standpoint our resource development arrangement with Hilcorp is moving forward consistent with our plans.
The development of the acreage continues and 10 wells are now in various stages of drilling.
Another 8 wells are currently in production.
We remain encouraged as the initial production flows are consistent with some of the better results reported in the area.
Drilling activity will continue to accelerate and we anticipate that by 2014 we'll be completing 25 to 30 wells per year all in all very much in line with our expectations.
Our CPG commercial team also is moving ahead with an inventory of growth projects of more than $0.5 billion in total investments and more than 1 billion cubic feet per day of added capacity.
That inventory includes the significant East and West Side Expansion projects as well as various others outlined in the appendix of our supplemental slides.
And finally our Millennium Pipeline partnership is moving forward on the new Hancock Compressor station a $45 million project that will increase delivery capacity to 850 000 dekatherms per day.
That project is set for completion by April 1 2014.
As you can see our CPG agenda is rich with activity designed to strengthen customer service share the continued reliability of our system and support the development of the burgeoning shale supplies great work by the entire team.
Let's now shift to Indiana and our Electric business as summarized on Slide 7.
NIPSCO continues to advance its agenda of customer service reliability and long-term growth and modernization.
As I mentioned we followed infrastructure modernization programs for both NIPSCO Gas and Electric assets plans totaling more than $1.7 billion investment over the next 7 years.
In addition NIPSCO remains on track with the $500 million plus scrubber project at our Schahfer Generating Station.
The first for the Schahfer FGD units will be online before the end of this year.
Thanks to the team we're on schedule if not a bit ahead of schedule and on budget.
The second unit is scheduled for completion in late 2014.
Construction and engineering also is moving ahead at our Michigan City Generating Station where NIPSCO is installing a $250 million FGD unit.
Significant construction will begin in 2014 with an in-service date targeted for year end 2015.
Also on the environmental front in early October the IURC approved NIPSCO's capital projects and associated cost recovery for investments related to the EPA's Mercury and Air Toxics Standards so called MATS rule.
The MATS investments are expected to reach approximately $60 million over the next 3 years.
NIPSCO also is moving forward with an overall investment of up to $0.5 billion for 2 electric transmission projects in northern Indiana.
These projects will strengthen the midwest electrical infrastructure while supporting economic development and providing new jobs.
The final round has been selected for the first project the Reynolds to Topeka line and outreach to land owners and communities along the path are well underway.
The second project will kick off with a series of community open houses in early 2014.
All in all NIPSCO is positioned to provide sustainable value for its customers the economy and communities in Northern Indiana for many many years to come.
Let's turn now to NGD discussed on Slide 8.
Our NGD team continues to deliver strong results by aligning its long-term $10 billion infrastructure replacement and enhancement program with a variety of complementary customer and regulatory initiatives.
On the regulatory front I've already noted the NIPSCO gas rate settlement extension and the infrastructure filing and new rates went into effect at Columbia Gas at Maryland following approval of a $3.6 million annual revenue increase granted by the Maryland Commission.
Also as a reminder from our last call new forward-looking rates went into effect on July 1 at Columbia Gas at Pennsylvania.
In Kentucky our ongoing rate case seeks an annual revenue increase of about $17 million.
We're in active discussions with our stakeholders on a potential settlement.
Stay tuned.
In Massachusetts our current rate case is designed to support the company's expanded infrastructure efforts with timely recovery.
The case seeks increased annual revenues of $30 million.
We expect new rates to be effective in Kentucky in January 2014 and in Massachusetts during the first quarter of 2014.
Again our Gas Distribution team continues to set the standard for disciplined project execution paired with a foundational commitment to customer service and stakeholder engagement.
To wrap up teams across NiSource are continuing to deliver on our core strategy and we're well positioned to meet our commitments in a disciplined balanced and sustainable fashion going forward.
Our third quarter performance is squarely in line with our outlook for the year and consistent with our commitment to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders and for all of our key stakeholders.
As always we'll communicate with you about these and all other matters of importance in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on www.nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest in support of NiSource.
Now Parita let's open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One is -- the $1.7 billion spend at NIPSCO around SB 560 what's the shape of that spend? It ramps up Paul as our spending on the 3 scrubber projects begin to wind down.
Now actual spending will begin as soon as we receive commission approval in '14 but again it ramps up over the 7-year period.
Research Division</strong> And then I saw you file the...
Paul I may have one other note just for you and the other folks on the call.
We've been fairly consistent in saying that as it currently stands NIPSCO's CapEx program give or take is in the $450 million to $500 million range and that's what we intend to keep it at going forward.
So again think about scrubbers ramping down T-Desk [ph] or 7-year investments beginning to ramp up.
Research Division</strong> And I saw you file the mixed shelf yesterday but we're still thinking about mid '15 for the next equity raise.
Is that fair? That's correct.
And the shelf that we filed yesterday was a routine filing.
We needed to file that by early November.
So it was a routine filing and we're still projecting the need for additional equity second half of '15.
Research Division</strong> And then in the past in our discussions you've made it clear that the idea of an MLP is certainly on the table but you just wanted a better line of sight on an inventory of appropriate projects before you let that genie out of the bottle.
Can you just kind of refresh or update us on your latest thinking? Yes you're directionally correct.
It continues to be a viable option.
It's certainly worthy of consideration.
As you know and others know we've been looking at it carefully albeit deliberately.
A couple of key considerations that we need to navigate number 1 are credit considerations.
Given we're relatively low BBB- we need to navigate the credit considerations carefully.
There's also concerns around tax leakage and again we have to navigate that issue.
Both I would say aren't show stoppers but I also say both aren't trivial.
So they require careful thought and consideration.
The team continues to look at and work through the considerations and I think we've also said as we get closer to '15 and the need for additional equity consideration becomes more relevant.
In the meantime the team's focused on developing accretive projects and building the investment inventory.
The next question comes from line of Carl Kirst from BMO Capital.
Paul actually kind of touched on the shape of the spend for the modernization program and so as you've answered that this question may be a little bit less relevant from a timing standpoint.
But as we' think about the response you got on the Electric side not really taking issue with the dollar spend so kind of coming out relatively close to where you guys were is this something from SB 560 that necessarily has to get litigated? Or is there actually potential for settlement on both the Electric and Gas side just to sort of bring certainty to it? Yes.
Our standard approach we prefer to settle anything and everything we possibly can and we're always exploring that opportunity.
Having said that both of these cases are cases of first impression.
First one's filed under the new legislation.
So our expectation is that they will be litigated that there will be a process.
But you've already suggested.
We think the process is going to be constructive and it's going to help all the stakeholders to come out to the right decisions on both filings.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then just sort of a micro question if I can on the LDC side.
The expense looks like it's running around 11% higher year-over-year.
And there were several reasons cited for that so I appreciate the color.
I guess my question is should we be looking at this effectively as a new run rate? Well Carl let me take that.
This is Steve.
We're on track for the earnings growth projections we've previously shared with you at NGD.
And really as we ramp up the capital investments that drive that growth you'll see associated expense growth in short windows during which the lead lag dynamics of spending and recovery shift.
So over the plan the additional expenses associated with the growth are all well matched with the regulatory recovery.
So it's nothing out of the ordinary and it's fully within our expectations.
The next question comes from line of Charles Fishman from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Equity issuance and I think last time you talked about that.
You said about the size of the one last year.
So is that still your thinking $400 million plus or minus? In terms of modeling I think that's a good number to use.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the latter half of 2015.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes.
Yes.
And then on -- I noticed in the release it said industrials were strong for the recently ended quarter.
Any particular industry or -- I know you're heavy in steel.
Yes.
We're -- and actually the steel load was fine during the quarter.
And so the quarter was -- I would call it a pleasant surprise but for the year we believe that the load is going to be flattish.
And our projections was flattish.
Our outlook tends to be flattish and our models are premised on flat industrial activity.
And so as you look at the company and the business that's what I would assume.
Research Division</strong> So at this point let's say for 2014 what kind of growth let's say overall on the retail? Do you have any thought about that? Flattish.
Flattish.
Research Division</strong> Flattish? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When you think about NiSource be it residential commercial or industrial think and model flattish.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the Slide 13 on CPG I noticed that the LNG exports the bottom end of that range bumped up $150 million.
Was there some project in development that's moved from sort of early stage development to late stage? Is that what happened there? Yes that's a fair statement.
You may recall that we held an open season gosh 3 months ago on a project called Cameron Access or Cameron Reach.
The team continues to work on that project diligently and I would only say stay tuned.
You have no question at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
You guys filed a complaint for -- regarding the joint operating agreement between MISO and PJM and sort of the lack of transmission that have been acted upon I guess transmission proposals regarding sort of market-to-market congestion and I was just wondering what you saw as the potential opportunity.
I mean I did see that there was some of these things mentioned recently at PJM that you guys had proposed and I was just wondering how they sort of fit into your plans that you guys have outlined today.
Is it upside from here? And just what sort of opportunities that might lead just with the market implications might be of it [indiscernible].
Yes let me just speak to the filing.
That filing was simply an effort to encourage PJM and MISO to work more cooperatively work in a more coordinated fashion so that we can continue to rationalize grow reinforce strengthen interstate transmission.
So that's what it was pure and simple.
And we have 2 major electric transmission projects underway.
We hope that there are additional opportunities that are of that size and nature within our footprint.
So that's what we're -- we're looking for those opportunities.
But again we do think PJM and MISO need to work more closely together so that this can unfold in a more coherent fashion.
Okay.
And is that part of your CapEx program? Or is that just sort of additional? Or how should we think about it? Well we have included in our outlook in our plans about $0.5 billion for 2 specific electric transmission projects that have been approved by MISO and the FERC and are actually under construction.
One is into the right-of-way process.
The second one is just launching.
Now again our hope and desire would be to identify develop originate projects similar in nature to those.
We do not have those yet to be defined opportunities reflected in the plan.
But can you give us a sense as to what you think it might do in terms of market dynamics? I mean you're talking about -- I guess it's sort of like lowering the congestion.
At least I guess -- I assume that would have the impact of sort of facilitating generation deliverability into PJM or I guess theoretically vice versa.
Is -- do you have any sense as to what the impact could be with respect to that? Yes.
I can't give you any sort of refined precise nature of the impact but you're right.
The point is to improve the efficiency of the system to relieve transmission congestion and make the grid just operate better and more reliably.
But I can't give you -- I cannot reduce that to a quantified improvement.
The next question comes from the line of Peter Hoke [ph] from Zimmer Partners.
I just wanted to spend some time with the CPG income statement for a moment if we could and just kind of try and understand how revenues are flowing through and expenses through that group again a real healthy step up in the operating earnings there.
But where are the transportation revenues step up coming from now? And the other revenue line how does that break out? Yes good question.
Let Steve walk you through some of the geography.
Yes sure.
Just at a high level what transpired last year at this time was a modernization settlement charge that we took in the third quarter.
So fast forward to the third quarter this year what you're seeing is 2 offsetting items one in revenue one in depreciation.
And the revenue offset is about $66 million and the depreciation offset is about $16 million.
So you net those two together and that's $50 million effectively that we took in the third quarter of 2012.
With respect to the other revenues that you're referring to that's primarily -- that increase of $25-or-so million is effectively the other transmission rate adjustment which is a tracker which is offset in O&amp;M.
So it shows up in revenues and in other revenues.
But it's tracker.
But it's track so there's really no incremental benefit as a result of that tracker activity.
Got you.
I see what's going on there and that's perfect.
And then just to drop down in the equity earnings line what's flowing through the equity earnings there? The equity earnings are all the partnerships that we have.
And primarily the driver there that's increasing quarter-over-quarter is almost entirely increases from Millennium Pipeline.
So earnings are up a couple of million dollars as a result of that.
But in that buck would be Millennium Hardy Storage.
Pennant.
Okay perfect.
And then the -- once the modernization tracker filing gets taken care of and I guess you're saying starting in February '14 then we'll see a similar pattern as the other revenues bump up and the O&amp;M the tracker line will kind of go along with that right? That's correct.
That's right.
And we're finishing up the first year of modernization in and around $300 million of spend so far in 2013.
We'll be making that filing at FERC shortly and the revenues will be increased in the February 2014 timeframe.
You may have heard us say before that we see this arrangement being earnings accretive beginning in '14 as that tracker kicks in cash accretive beginning into '15.
Okay.
And then this gain on storage gas what were the conditions that allowed you to do that? I thought with depressed gas prices it would be difficult to recognize that.
Yes.
We are always looking at our storage fields and you know we have a slew of storage fields in the mid-Atlantic regions.
We're always looking in that -- at that from an engineering standpoint and optimization standpoint.
In fact that's the way we look at the entire capacity of the network.
And when we have -- when we feel we have an opportunity to adjust the base gas storage or any capacity we look at market conditions and try to take advantage of it.
And we do this periodically and that's what occurred in this situation.
Okay fine.
And then the O&amp;M line x the trackers showing about 3.5% to 4% growth there is that something that we could expect for CPG just because of the growth of the business? Or will it be more or less than that? Yes.
Going forward it's going to be less than that.
In fact good question across NiSource we see O&amp;M increases tracking at about the rate of inflation.
That's across the entire footprint.
But both pipeline group and gas distribution group have had some Millennium pressures as they've made these dramatic increases in the CapEx programs.
Those increases will normalize and/or will be recovered in rates.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
And to all the participants on the call this morning thank you for your interest your attention and support of NiSource.
Have a good safe day.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Quarter Four 2013 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Patrick and I'll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Glen Kettering Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Patrick and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource wed like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Smith -- Randy Hulen Managing Director of Investor Relations.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the fourth quarter and full year of 2013 and to provide a business update as we enter 2014.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we'll refer to the supplemental slides available on nisource.com.
I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Glen.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
As we noted in this mornings release for NiSource 2013 was another year of solid execution notable achievement and industry leading growth in shareholder value.
On our call today well highlight a number of these achievements and discuss how they position NiSource for continued growth in 2014 and beyond.
Then Steve Smith will review our financial highlights.
We will also provide updates on key initiatives outline our 2014 earnings and capital investment guidance and then of course we will have plenty of time for your questions.
With that agenda in mind lets get started with some key 2013 takeaways.
These are listed on slide three in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning.
As you can see our team continued to execute on NiSources well-established strategy generating long-term growth through disciplined infrastructure investments supported by complementary commercial and regulatory initiatives.
Notably our team delivered earnings in line with our guidance for the seventh consecutive year and we produced total shareholder return of 36% which outperformed the broader utility indices by a wide margin for the fifth consecutive year.
The foundation of this progress continues to be our deep inventory of long-term accretive modernization and growth investments that investment inventory exceeds $30 billion and continues to grow.
During 2013 our teams delivered against this inventory by executing on a record $2 billion capital program that includes key system modernization growth in environmental investments.
We saw clear evidence of the value of these investments during this winter's extreme cold weather.
Our service territory has been particularly hard hit and our systems have been tested at historical levels.
I'm pleased to report that the system and our teams have performed extraordinarily well.
The key factor in that success was our ongoing commitment to fundamentally strengthen and modernize our core infrastructure.
Unfortunately despite this strong performance we had an incident on the Columbia Gulf system in Adair County Kentucky last week while we are able to meet our commercial commitments we are disappointed the incident occurred.
We've been working closely with them to determine the cause.
In parallel with that review our immediate priority is to address the needs of those affected in the surrounding community.
With that let's turn back to the key takeaways one of the core pillars of our growth strategy is NiSources thoughtful and disciplined financial approach.
During 2013 we further strengthen NiSources financial foundation and maintained our strong liquidity position and I am pleased to note that we did so while also providing about a 4% increase our dividend.
In addition just a few weeks ago Moodys upgraded NiSources investment-grade credit rating to Baa2 from Baa3 noting the significant regulatory advancements across our company.
Well touch on our financing strategies and core commitments again a bit later but suffices to say we are well-positioned to continue delivering strong performance and steady growth in 2014 and beyond.
With those highlights I will now turn the call over to Steve Smith to take a look at our financial results on page four of the supplemental slides.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned by any measure the NiSource team delivered strong results in 2013.
We generated annual non-GAAP net operating earnings of about $494 million or $1.58 per share.
That was at the upper end of our guidance range compares with earnings of about $426 million or $1.46 per share in 2012.
On an operating basis NiSource was up about $77 million when compared to 2012.
On a GAAP comparison our income from continuing operations was about $491 million for 2013 versus about $409 million in 2012.
At the segment level you will see that each of our three core business units delivered solid earnings growth.
Columbia Pipeline Group or CPG delivered operating earnings of about $441 million compared to about $398 million in 2012.
CPGs net revenues excluding the impact of trackers were up about $59 million primarily as a result of 2012 impacts from our system modernization customer settlement.
We also saw increased revenues from new growth projects and higher royalties from mineral rights.
Earnings were also up for NIPSCOs electric operations where earnings came in about $265 million compared with about $238 million for 2012.
Net revenues again excluding the impact of trackers were up by about $38 million primarily due to an increase in environmental investment cost recovery and higher industrial and commercial margins.
And finally our gas distribution business delivered about $449 million in operating earnings compared to about $438 million for the prior year.
Net revenues again excluding trackers were up about $77 million primarily due to regulatory and service programs related to our infrastructure placement efforts.
All in all another solid quarter in year with full details available in our earning release posted online this morning.
Turning to slide five Id like to quickly touch on our financing and liquidity highlights.
As Bob noted our liquidity position remained strong at approximately $1.6 billion as of the end of the fourth quarter.
We took several steps to strengthen NiSources financial foundation during 2013.
This included issuing $1.25 billion of 30-year debt at attractive rates and our team also increased the size of revolving credit facility by $500 million to $2 billion and extended its terms until September of 2018.
Overall we ended 2013 with the debt to capitalization of 60%.
As Bob mentioned another significant milestone Moodys recently upgraded our credit rating to Baa2 from Baa3.
In December Fitch rating affirmed our credit rating of BBB minus and we anticipate hearing from Standard &amp; Poor in the next few weeks.
Looking ahead our financial strategy continues to be strong sustainable and fully-aligned with a robust long-term capital investment outlook.
With that Ill turn the call back to Bob to cover our business unit initiatives and our 2014 guidance.
Thanks Steve.
Before opening the call to questions we will quickly hit on some key marker across each of our business units.
Lets start with the CPG highlights on slide six.
Our CPG team continues to deliver on all fronts from modernization to midstream to regulated pipeline growth projects.
From a modernization standpoint Im pleased to note that we received FERC approval in late January for recovery of CPGs first year of modernization investments.
That -- that included more than 30 projects representing a total investment of about $300 million.
We started recovery on those investments on February 1st.
Meanwhile our CPG team is fully engaged in this year's modernization program which includes another $300 million in investment.
As you know our customers have agreed to the initial five years of the program with an opportunity to mutually extend that agreement.
Overall we indemnify the total modernization opportunity of more than $4 billion.
In the late breaking news category I'm pleased to announce that CPG has entered into binding precedent agreements for a major new project the Cameron Access Project.
In addition the upgrades on the existing Columbia Gulf System in Southern Louisiana this project involves construction of the new pipeline connecting the gulf system with the planned Cameron LNG Terminal in Southern Louisiana which received Department of Energy Export approval just last week.
This is a $300 million plus investment for CPG that will connect numerous shale basins to the LNG export facility.
The Cameron Access will have an initial capacity about 800 000 dekatherms per day.
It is expected to be in service by the end of 2017.
Meanwhile CPGs midstream team is continuing to capitalize on our strategic position in the Marcellus and Utica regions.
In December we began operating Hickory Bend gathering and processing facility in Eastern Ohio.
You may recall that project will provide about 600 million cubic feet per day of new gathering capacity and about 200 million cubic feet per day of processing capacity in that region.
Our team also is moving forward with other related facilities in the Hickory Bend area including a separate natural gas liquids pipeline that connects to the Hickory Bend plan to the UEO Kensington facility in Columbiana County Ohio.
Starting in the third quarter this year the line will ultimately deliver up to 90 000 barrels of liquids per day.
As a reminder these projects are part of our joint venture with Hilcorp Energy.
Speaking of Hilcorp our joint resource development arrangement in the Utica is moving forward consistent with our plans.
20 wells are now in various stages of drilling and another 10 wells are currently in production.
We remain encouraged that the initial production flows are consistent with some of the better flows reported in the area.
Drilling activity will continue to accelerate in 2014.
We anticipate that beginning this year we will be completing 25 to 30 wells annually.
All in all it's very much in line with our expectations and strongly supportive of our complementary infrastructure investments.
As a reminder the production is dedicated to the Pennant Midstream gathering and processing facilities.
Shifting to the Marcellus region NiSource Midstream recently entered into an agreement with Range Resources to provide firm transportation services on the Big Pine gathering system which was placed in service in April 2013.
The agreement provides for transportation of up to 100 million cubic feet per day.
As a reminder the project was anchored with long-term gathering contracts with XTO Energy and Penn Energy.
Big Pine is capable of transporting up to 425 million cubic foot per day of Marcellus production.
Finally a quick touch on several key supply and market-driven growth projects being advanced by CPG.
In total our team is executing on more than $0.5 billion worth of projects that will add about 1 billion cubic feet of capacity to our system over the next two years.
Looking a little further out this number doubles in investment and doubles in capacity.
Most recently the team received FERC approval on its Line 1570 Giles County projects that we previously discussed.
We also recently completed a key portion of the West Side Expansion project when we reversed the flow on a portion of the Columbia Gulf System.
That enables our 500 million cubic feet per day of shale gas to flow south from our Leach Kentucky interconnect toward Rayne Louisiana.
CPG also successfully completed non-binding open seasons for two companion projects the Leach XPress and the Rayne Xpress.
Those projects would further connect shale production with markets on Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf.
Were currently in active discussions with potential anchor shippers and will keep you posted as these exciting projects move forward.
As you can see CPG team is executing on an impressive array of initiatives.
Those efforts will result in a disciplined capital investment of about $800 million at CPG this year.
Now let's shift to our Indiana electric business summarized on Slide 7.
NIPSCO continues to advance the broad agenda of customer service reliability and environmental improvements just yesterday another vitally significant milestone for us the IURC approved NIPSCO seven-year electric modernization plan which encompasses approximately $1.1 billion of investments to modernize the electric infrastructure in Northern Indiana.
Initial investments under this program will begin by mid-2014.
NIPSCOs $700 million gas modernization filing remains on schedule with the IURC with the decision expected by midyear.
Both the electric and gas plans are closely aligned with Indiana legislation providing for timely recovery of qualifying modernization investments.
Another significant milestone is the installation of the two new scrubber units at our Schahfer generating station.
The first FGD was completed on budget and ahead of schedule late last year and the second unit is on track for completion by the end of this year.
Work has also started on third FGD project at our Michigan City station that project is slated to be complete by the end of 2015.
In total more than $850 million in environmental investments are moving forward at NIPSCO.
NIPSCO also is on track with two major electric transmission projects a 100 mile 345-kV line and 66 mile 765-kV line.
These projects together constitute an investment of approximately $0.5 billion for NIPSCO and are anticipated to be in service by the end of 2018.
All total NIPSCO has an inventory of more than $6 billion in long-term investments that will benefit customers and provide a platform for economic development across Northern Indiana.
During 2014 the capital investments in NIPSCOs electric business will total about $450 million.
Let's turn now to our Gas Distribution Operations discussed on Slide 8.
Our Gas Distribution teams continued to steadily execute on their long-term $10 billion plus inventory of infrastructure programs.
In fact during 2013 our Gas Distribution capital investments reached a record level at $790 million with the largest portion of that investment committed to modernization programs.
Under those programs our Gas Distribution teams replaced more than 360 miles of aging pipelines last year and as always we paired those investments with complementary customer programs and regulatory initiatives.
On the regulatory front Columbia Gas Kentucky received approval in December for its rate case settlement.
The company's new rates which took effect December 29th provide for an increased fixed customer charge and about $8 million in additional annual revenues.
The rates support the company's ongoing modernization investments.
The Columbia Gas Massachusetts rate proceeding also remains on track with the decision expected in new rates in effect by March 1st.
You recall that CMA is seeking increase revenues of about $30 million to support the company's expanded modernization plans.
Our distribution team also continues to execute on organic and market-driven growth opportunities.
This includes development of a $15 million project that will serve a major Columbia Gas of Virginia industrial customer starting in late 2014.
As part of the same project Columbia Gas Transmission will separately invest about $25 million to extend its system to interconnect with Columbia Gas of Virginia.
As we roll into 2014 we are confident our Gas Distribution teams well-established approach for creating shared value for customers and key stakeholders will continue to deliver solid results.
We target about $815 million of Gas Distribution capital spending for 2014 again focused primarily on modernization and growth initiatives.
Before turning to your questions let's quickly touch on our guidance for 2014 and a couple of key takeaways.
With over $2 billion in capital investments underway for 2014 we fully expect to deliver on our core commitments including consistently generating earnings growth in the 5% to 7% range over the long-term.
For 2014 we expect to deliver net operating earnings within a range of $1.61 to a $1.71 per share non-GAAP.
Id also reiterate that well execute on this proven strategy while staying true to our well-established core commitments.
We will maintain stable investment-grade credit ratings strong financial liquidity and dividend growth in the range of 3% to 5% annually.
As always we'll communicate on all matters with importance in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest and in support of NiSource.
Patrick we can now open the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) And gentlemen our first question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Hey Paul how are you? Good morning Paul Hi thank you.
Leaching rain how big a capital opportunity is there? Assuming we can drive this home its going to be a major major investment.
You can see that we have work on Columbia Gas Transmission that typically requires a relatively large investment.
Well also be investing on Columbia Gulf and big scheme of things thats relatively small expect the spends to be unfolding in 16 and 17 again assuming we can close these deals.
And then just on the modernization besides your settlement have you started talking about an extension of that and whats the outlook to may be go above 300 when you do extend it if you extend it? Well like when we extend it.
Paul a little bit too early to get into those sorts of discussions with our customers and other stakeholders.
Clearly weve only been at this year.
We have been very pleased with the performance of the Columbia Gas Transmission system.
We think the investments have shown their value to the customers.
So we felt like we need to get one year of construction hard winter under our belts and another construction season in the ground.
And then it will be appropriate to begin discussions with the stakeholders.
So stay tuned.
And lastly just latest thoughts on some of the hurdles around forming alternative structure in MLP? Oh the MLP? Yeah this discussion will be consistent with our prior discussions.
We still consider the MLP vehicle to be very viable for NiSource its a viable approach a viable option.
We cant continue to closely study it closely work the consideration among the management team but also the board.
Paul I would add true to our form its going to be a thoughtful thorough sort of discipline consideration.
We continue to indicate to you and others to expect the decision circa third quarter of 2014.
And I would just make the observation not coincidently thats about nine to 12 months in advance when we believe we will need equity or an equity alternative in 2015.
So in the mean time as you can tell the team is focused on projects development and our initiatives.
So just stay tuned.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Steve I had two questions on the quarter and one on growth.
Cant be apply the small drop in earnings and about $8 million in the quarter and you talked about really shorter-term -- decreases in shorter-term transportation services.
How much impact was that in the quarter? And then an increase in other revenues in that segment is that from midstream? Yeah I would say -- this is Steve I would say the decrease in revenues for -- net revenues for CPG was around the $5 million for the quarter.
And midstream did drive some benefits to us but again it was in the couple of million dollar range nothing too significant.
Okay.
And then looking in terms of throughput on Columbia Gulf just want to understand you saw like a book to bill of 30% year-on-year decline in the numbers 4Q over 4Q.
Can you just give us some more color there and whats the outlook is it somehow related to part of the West side expansion reversing flow or what are we looking at with those numbers there? Yeah Steve I think in the macro sense you are seeing what the entire industry is seeing with Marcellus and Utica that customers are relying less on Gulf region gas and they are relying on gas thats in The Northeast and thats what you are seeing and you are seeing Marcellus and others look at ways to repurpose turnaround go by directional on these long line pipes from the Gulf region to the market region.
So we believe our efforts and example would be the West side which renders one of our line bidirectional.
Its a great example of what we are attempting to do to move gas north to south fully utilized Columbia Gulf.
What Paul also mentioned the express is open season is really a variant on that as well moving gas out of the Marcellus Utica region to liquid points of interaction west on the Columbia Gas Transmission and then all the way down the Gulf system.
So its just a reflection of whats going on in the market.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then final for me on Pennant Midstream just the thoughts on the 600 million cubic feet a day of gathering 200 of processing in terms of how we should think about the volume ramp? And then sort of the reminder are those capacities spoken for or are we expecting a volume ramp to get to those numbers over 14 and into 15 and does the same hold true for that NGL line? Hilcorp would be the primary driver of the initial phases of volume ramp.
So they are really driving the project.
Now are we looking at opportunities to bring additional volumes onto the Hilcorp or onto the Pennant System? That would be yes.
But again I repeat Hilcorp is really the key driver in gathering volumes and the processing volumes.
And Hilcorps intent you see reflected in their drilling program.
First things first they want to fill up the 200 million a day processing facility.
So that's what they're attempting to do first and foremost and as quickly as they can.
And then phases two and three would be additional processing facilities of the Hickory Bend site.
So thats the game plan.
And again if were successful in bringing additional volumes in our activity to Pennant then you might see that schedule accelerated.
Okay.
I appreciate it guys.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Hey Faisel.
Good morning Faisel.
Good morning.
So wondered if you guys could discuss some of the taking place in the market over the last couple of months.
I guess there was a trade publication article talked about how Dominion was looking for a Midwest utility when it was raising capital to possibly buyout utility in Midwest.
And at the same time I guess around the same time Im not sure if this is related or not.
You guys change your change in control in termination agreements.
So can you again discuss how you and the board are thinking about M&amp;A.
And if any of the stuff is related to sort of whats out there in the market? Yeah let me talk about the change control agreements.
Every year as we expect the boards looking to change control agreements and what we did with those was simply to remove the gross up provision in those change of control agreements to make them contemporary or leading edge with good corporate governance.
That was absolutely all that was involved in that.
Again its an annual process that we do with the board or comp committee.
Now rumors as you would expect we don't comment on rumors but maybe I can make couple of observations.
Number one were an $11 billion equity value company with I think extraordinarily strong standalone plan.
So everything we do is kind of measured against what I think is a really really strong strong plan that we know we can execute on.
And then the second observation is were always going to do the right thing for the shareholder.
So thats really all we can say about rumors and speculation and things of that nature.
Okay.
Thats fair I appreciate that.
And then just going back to some of the comments around the Xpress projects whats the aggregate amount of capacity thats contemplated on those? And would all that capacity be eligible to be reversed essentially out of the Marcellus Utica down to the Gulf Coast markets.
Well again these are two companion open seasons activity on Columbia Gas Transmission.
So in the market in the Marcellus and Utica region and Columbia Gulf our total capacities would be north of a Bcf a day.
Okay.
As I kind of alluded to Paul major projects assuming to goes forward major projects assuming to goes forward.
The entire 1 Bcf a day would be able to make it to the Gulf Coast markets.
A little south of that all the way down to the Gulf but again were looking at expansion opportunities on Columbia Gas Transmission increase deliveries into Gulf.
But then what ultimately moves south on Gulf would be more like $800 million to $900 million a day.
Okay.
Got it.
Just again to give you the parameters and just to underscore we are in discussions situation is fluid a lot of wood to chop to get from here to there what you guys sense that it's bigger than the bread box.
Okay.
Last question on your overall storage capacity in the Mid-Atlantic I guess and Midwest market.
Are you seeing any sort of change in the demand for storage capacity in your area given all the production growth taking place? Well our storage is fully contracted on long-term agreements so we are absolutely sold out.
And I think one thing that's constructive about this winter is how gosh darn valuables storage is of regardless what's going in the Utica and Marcellus and how valuable firm transport capacity is in this region.
So I think that it just underscores we think the value of the Columbia Gas Transmission system.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Bob.
Appreciate the time.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
If I could circle back at the MLP question again I just want to make sure I understand that.
The two hurdles you had discussed in the past were tax leakage and the lack of flexibility on the backside which we are waiting obviously we get some help from Moodys.
Is tax leakage still a concern that you are going to have to progress before that happens? Hey just for clarity for everybody thats listening in the past weve talked about investment grade credit how sacrosanct that is and so weve been very mindful of credit considerations and anything that might be a negative on our credit.
We have also talked about tax leakage because our assets are low basis assets.
We have also tried to consistently indicate that we are working studying engineering on both fronts and that we have gotten more comfortable with credit considerations in general and we have also been more comfortable in ways to manage structure in and around tax leakage.
But thats as far as we have gone.
Again I eluded in my comments to Paul we continue to closely study we continue to closely work and well be thorough in discipline as we work through those issues.
So lets say you have been trying to make a decision on this by later this year third quarter I believe you said that would impact the amount of equity in 15 if that were to occur? Well speaking hypothetically if we pursued an MLP that would be in-lieu of common equity.
Right.
Well okay.
Well do one or the other? Yeah.
Now size Okay.
 as you would have to get there and make those determinations.
But again hypothetically it would replace the need for common equity.
Just Bob I know just in general you have this new line going to an invest your customer in Virginia is there other utilities talk about the impact of industrial growth impact because of investors fair view of natural gas prices in the U.S.
for an extended period of time do you think I (inaudible) customer? These were -- I dont want to speak directly but we have seen environmental considerations drive certain projects of this nature.
Now obviously they have a strong business but there are environmental considerations at play.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Hey Carl.
Hi.
Hey.
Just a couple of cleanup questions I have got one going back to the Leach brand XPress and I guess maybe can you queue up how you see the milestones going you mentioned Bob maybe spending in 2016 2017 so I would think that would mean if this project were to move forward for filing by the end of this year? And is this a project that FDU come out of the non-binding you would take sort of first [two precedent] agreements or would you go into -- directly into a binding open season and what might you think the timing of that might be? All right.
You have got a lot of stuff going on that front.
Wow! Hey.
Let me just put it this way.
We are still in active discussions.
And so the scenarios around a binding open season goings with the binding agreements just premature at this point.
We are speaking with the folks potential anchor shippers.
We think those discussions are going forward on an expedited basis but its still too early to say what the next steps are.
I do think an FERC filing I think you suggested mid-year I dont see that being feasible at all.
But I do see possibilities that this could move on an expedited basis.
Great.
I appreciate the color.
The second question was just -- could you and I apologize if you had this in your opening commentary as I was taking notes down but could you refresh my memory what the milestones are for the NIPSCO gas modernization as far as when we would expect to see a decision from the IURC? We believe we will see a decision on an outcome midyear of this year.
Just a point of reference were holding or the IURC is holding a hearing on the gas filing today as we speak in Indianapolis.
Now I would also make the observation that with yesterdays order on the electric T disc we certainly have gotten some instructions some clarity some insight and hopefully thats going to be helpful as we process the gas case.
Excellent.
Thanks so much.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of John Edwards with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Good morning everybody.
Just a sort of follow-up on the MLP question.
It sounds like you are getting more comfortable with the possibility of the MLP option maybe and I dont know if you had a comment on this at this point but is there anything at this point that you think would prevent you from pursuing the MLP option? I think we just need to complete the process working closely with the board and with the team and we need to work through the process.
Okay.
All right great.
Thats all I have.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We have a follow-up question from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Just a quick follow-up.
Last time on the last call you talked about the fact that with SB560 because its a new law in Indiana there was a high probability that there would be some litigation is that (inaudible) approval and order youve got yesterday reduce that or do you think thats still the case? The decision yesterday was the product litigation.
The case went through the hearing process the briefing process all phases of litigation and so what the commission did was they acted on a complete record on the program and made the decision.
Okay.
So there is very low probability or no probability of any continuing litigation on that? Well parties would have the right to appeal and that sort of thing.
We feel good about the order we feel good the way the process unfolded so we are bullish that we will be executing against the program beginning midyear.
Okay fantastic.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thanks.
Being that there are no remaining questions in queue I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
Patrick thanks so much and thanks to everyone for your participation today your ongoing support of NiSource.
And as we mentioned we will communicate clearly and frequently.
So thank you very much.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2014 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ian.
I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Randy Hulen Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Ian and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I would like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the first quarter of 2014 as well as provide an overall business update.
We will then open up the call to your questions.
At times during the call we will refer to the supplemental slides that are available on nisource.com.
I would like to remind everyone that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thank you Randy.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
As we noted in this morning's release our team delivered another quarter of solid performance.
Today we'll summarize a number of execution highlights and discuss how they position NiSource for continued growth in 2014 and beyond.
Then Steve Smith will review our financial results.
We'll also provide updates on key initiatives across each of our businesses and of course we'll leave plenty of time for your questions.
With that agenda in mind let's start with some key takeaways from the quarter.
You'll see these listed on Slide 3 in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning.
As you saw is in this morning's news release our NiSource team delivered another strong quarter.
Each of our business units steadily advanced our well-established agenda of regulatory and legislative programs paired with significant infrastructure investments and long-term system enhancements.
In particular at Columbia Pipeline Group we saw a strong quarter of pipeline and midstream infrastructure project origination and execution.
Touching on a few highlights from the quarter.
We delivered earnings per share of $0.82 in the first quarter that's in line with our 2014 guidance of $1.61 to $1.71 per share non-GAAP.
In addition our 2014 capital program target -- targeted at $2.2 billion remained solidly on track with our infrastructure investment programs now moving into high gear.
On the regulatory front we placed new rates in effect in Massachusetts following the decision by the DPU in early March.
Our team also filed a new rate case in Pennsylvania as we continued to deliver system modernization investments in the Commonwealth.
And as we mentioned in our year-end call we received FERC approval to begin recovery of our Columbia Gas Transmission modernization investments from 2013.
We began recovering on the first $300 million of those investments in February.
In parallel with these foundational regulatory and system modernization programs we continued to originate new growth in midstream opportunities across our pipeline segment.
We've had significant developments on that front which I'll touch on in a few minutes.
With those highlights let me turn the call over to Steve Smith to take a closer look at our financial results on Page 4 of our supplemental slides.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned the NiSource team delivered a strong first quarter.
We generated annual non-GAAP net operating earnings of about $258 million or $0.82 per share which compares to about $215 million or $0.69 per share in 2013.
On an operating earnings basis NiSource was up about $80 million when compared to the same period in 2013.
On a GAAP comparison our income from continuing operations was about $266 million for the first quarter of 2014 versus $216 million in 2013.
At the segment level you will see that each of our 3 core business units delivered solid earnings growth during the first quarter.
Columbia Pipeline Group or CPG delivered operating earnings of about $159 million compared to about $133 million in 2013.
CPG's net revenues excluding the impact of trackers were up about $20 million primarily as a result of growth projects placed in service and increased mineral rights royalty revenue.
Earnings for the quarter were also up at NIPSCO's electric operations where earnings came in at about $74 million compared with about $65 million for 2013.
Net revenues again excluding the impact of trackers were up by $18 million primarily due to an increase in off-system sales environmental investment cost recovery and higher industrial margins.
And finally our Gas Distribution business unit delivered about $280 million in operating earnings compared to about $233 million for the prior year.
Net revenues excluding trackers were up about $54 million primarily due to regulatory and infrastructure replacement efforts.
All in all another solid quarter.
Full details are available on our earnings release posted online this morning.
Now turning to Slide 5 I'd like to quickly touch on our financing and liquidity highlights.
As you can see we retained a strong liquidity position with approximately $1.7 billion of net available liquidity at the end of the first quarter.
And as Bob mentioned I am pleased to reiterate that our capital program for 2014 remains on track at about $2.2 billion.
As we've indicated in the past the majority -- actually 77% of our investments remain focused on track and other revenue-generating opportunities.
In addition we are on track to deliver earnings squarely within our 2014 guidance range of $1.61 to $1.71 per share.
Looking ahead our financial strategy continues to be balanced straightforward and fully aligned with our robust long-term capital investment outlook and we remain strongly committed to maintaining our investment-grade credit ratings as well as sustainable earnings and dividend growth.
With that I'll turn the call back to Bob to cover some of our business unit initiatives and execution highlights.
Thanks Steve.
Before opening the call to your questions let me quickly hit on some key markers at each of our business units.
Let's start with CPG on Slide 6.
Our CPG team continues to originate and execute on an expanding mix of projects.
That includes new and ongoing customer-driven growth projects as well as our landmark modernization program.
From a system modernization standpoint as I noted earlier we began recovering our 2013 investments in February.
This year's program also is on track with about $300 million in investments planned.
As you know our customers have agreed to the initial 5 years of the program with an opportunity to mutually extend the agreement.
Overall we've identified a total modernization investment opportunity of more than $4 billion.
Meanwhile CPG's midstream team is continuing to capitalize on our strategic position in the Marcellus and Utica regions.
Recently the team announced a new project supported by a binding agreement with Range Resources to build additional gathering pipelines and compression facilities in Washington County Pennsylvania.
That project an investment of about $120 million will transport wellhead production to a nearby Columbia Transmission pipeline.
NiSource Midstream's natural gas liquids pipeline currently under construction as part of our Pennant Midstream venture remains on schedule for completion in the third quarter of this year.
The line will ultimately deliver up to 90 000 barrels of liquids per day.
Meanwhile our joint resource development arrangement in the Utica Shale is accelerating.
25 wells are now in various stages of drilling and another 10 wells are currently in production.
We now anticipate that more than 30 wells will be completed this year with the production dedicated to the Pennant Midstream gathering and processing facilities.
In addition to our midstream progress our CPG team is advancing an array of supply- and market-driven growth projects.
In fact our CPG project set to begin service this year will add almost 1 billion cubic feet of capacity to our system.
That includes our Warren County West Side Expansion Giles County and Line 1570 projects.
Our East Side Expansion project remains on schedule for completion in the third quarter of 2015.
The first quarter also saw significant progress on several new projects.
We're in advanced discussions with customers following the positive open season for our Rayne and Leach XPress projects.
Together these projects will transport about 1.5 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day providing a major new pathway for connecting shale production with markets on Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf Systems and well beyond.
In a separate recently completed open season we're exploring strong consumer interest around our WB XPress project which would involve the transportation of more than 1 billion cubic feet of Marcellus Shale production.
We'll keep you posted on the progress of each of these XPress projects as customer discussions mature.
On these projects I'd like to add a brief footnote.
The Rayne and Leach XPress projects are maturing nicely and we expect to be able to provide additional details before the end of the third quarter.
On the WB XPress project that too is moving along nicely.
However it's a little earlier in the process.
It could be closer to the end of the year when we'll have more tangible details to share.
As you can see the CPG team is executing on an impressive array of initiatives and projects.
We expect those efforts will result in a capital investment of more than $800 million for CPG this year.
Next let's shift to our Indiana electric business summarized on Slide 7.
NIPSCO continues to advance a broad agenda of customer service reliability and environmental improvements.
Following the February approval of NIPSCO's $1.1 billion electric modernization program NIPSCO began executing on the first year of its investments under the program.
The 7-year program provides for the replacement and upgrade of underground circuits transformers and poles helping to increase system reliability and deliver economic development benefits to the region.
As you know NIPSCO also filed a complementary 7-year -- $700 million natural gas modernization program.
We expect the decision from the IURC as early as this afternoon.
Our significant environmental investments also remain on schedule and on budget.
The 2 remaining FGD projects at NIPSCO's Schahfer and Michigan City electric generating facilities are slated for completion by year-end 2014 and year-end 2015 respectively.
These are part of more than $850 million in environmental investments recently completed and planned at NIPSCO's electric generating facilities.
NIPSCO also is on track with 2 major electric transmission projects.
Right-of-way acquisition is in progress for the company's new 100-mile 345-kV line and stakeholder outreach and route selection are in progress for a new 70-mile 760-kV line.
These projects together constitute an investment of about $500 million for NIPSCO and are anticipated to be in service by the end of 2018.
All told NIPSCO has an inventory of more than $6 billion in long-term investments that will benefit customers and provide a platform for economic development across Northern Indiana.
During 2014 we expect capital investments in NIPSCO's electric business will total about $450 million.
Let's turn now to our Gas Distribution Operations discussed on Slide 8.
Our Gas Distribution teams continue to steadily execute on their long-term $10 billion plus inventory of infrastructure replacement and enhancement programs.
Following our record year of Gas Distribution investments we're on track to invest approximately $815 million in 2014 on system modernization and capital improvements.
And as you know we've paired those investments with complementary customer programs and regulatory initiatives.
On the regulatory front Columbia Gas of Massachusetts received approval in March for its base rate case.
The company's new rates support infrastructure modernization investments and add about $19 million in annual revenues.
Just last week Columbia Gas of Ohio received approval of another year of the company's infrastructure replacement program rider adding approximately $25 million annually.
New rates go into effect today.
And as I noted earlier Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania also has filed a base rate case with the Pennsylvania Commission.
A decision on the $54 million request which would support continuation of CPA's ongoing infrastructure modernization program is expected later this year.
As you can see our Gas Distribution companies continued to steadily execute on our well-established agenda of long-term investment and system integrity reliability and customer programs.
To wrap up we're well within our 2014 non-GAAP guidance of $1.61 to $1.71 per share.
I also want to reiterate that our team continues to execute against NiSource's robust infrastructure investment-driven business strategy and we're doing so while staying true to our well-established core commitments.
Those are: maintaining stable investment-grade credit ratings preserving a strong financial liquidity position growing the dividend each year by 3% to 5% and delivering earnings growth in the range of 5% to 7% annually.
As always we'll communicate with you about these and all other matters of importance in a transparent and timely manner through our analyst calls and news releases posted on nisource.com.
Thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest in -- towards NiSource.
Ian let's now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Speakers please stand by for your first question which comes from the line of Charles Fishman at Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Bob let me first make sure my memory is correct on this.
A couple of years ago you talked about annual EPS growth of 5% to 7%.
So that's getting a little dated.
Is that still the current guidance you're giving on long-term EPS growth? Yes it still is the current guidance.
As you know we've aggressively stepped up our capital program over the past couple of years.
And as we grow into that program and as we require financing we still believe that the 5% to 7% growth rate range is appropriate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I guess my follow-up was if my memory was correct which it sounds like it is and I realize that's old I mean you've had some very good regulatory outcomes.
You've stepped up your capital spending as a result of that.
When might you look to revisit that as far as maybe bumping the bottom end of that or bumping the whole range up a little? Yes as I suggested we're growing quite rapidly.
We need to grow into our programs.
We need to grow into capital spend.
We need to deal with our financing as we tend to hit a more stable run rate if you will then we think it would be appropriate to take another look at the range.
In the meantime we still believe that's the best guidance we can give the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then if you make a decision I think you indicated later this year maybe even third quarter you'll make a decision on MLP versus equity for next year.
Would that be a trigger point for maybe revisiting the EPS growth rate? Could be.
I don't want to suggest that it will be but certainly it could be.
And your recollection on a decision in and around the MLP that's correct it would be the third quarter of this year.
And I would add that our team is considering an Investor Day in or around that third quarter period.
So stay tuned.
We have another question for you.
This one is from Paul Ridzon at KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Rayne Leach and WB XPress are these -- these are wholly-owned by Columbia Pipeline Group is that correct? These are our project pay dates as they say.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I missed that.
Yes these are proposed and supported solely by the Columbia Pipeline Group.
And we have another question for you this one is from Carl Kirst at BMO Capital.
I don't want to put the cart in front of the horse but...
You're going to do it anyhow.
I don't want to do it but that's our job right? With WB XPress I mean it looks like effectively we're going to be broadening if I have my PAPs correctly Leach as well sending even more gas west towards the Columbia Gulf.
And I guess as I look at Rayne and Leach and one being 1.5 Bcf a day but the Columbia Gulf portion only being 800 million and then maybe we have WB a year behind it but sending even more gas towards Columbia Gulf.
I guess what I'm asking is would it be also likely that we see a follow-on Columbia Gulf expansion potentially in the mix as well? And understanding that there are a lot of pipelines out there trying to do the same: ANR NGPL et cetera.
Just trying to figure out if there's even more sort of baking than what we're seeing? There's a lot there Carl.
Let me just begin with this.
If Rayne Leach XPress came to fruition if WB XPress came to fruition and as you recall we're working on this West Side project as we speak the entirety of Columbia Gulf would be rendered bidirectional.
Now if additional -- there was additional demand it was economic for us to construct and expand even more going South something we would certainly consider right? The line of sight today is West Side Rayne Leach XPress and WB and rendering Columbia Gulf bidirectional.
That's line of sight as we sit here today.
Great.
So I think -- okay that's very helpful.
So basically Columbia Gulf could also in sort of this bidirectional capacity would also have the ability to take a WB XPress? That wouldn't necessarily be a...? Oh yes.
Okay okay.
Maybe just 2 other very very small ones if I could.
One I didn't know if it was a material amount if you could break it out but it was mentioned as far as what the royalties were for CPG in the first quarter? And then second on the -- basically the Hilcorp drilling I guess there was a little bit of -- Ohio came out and this concern over some of the earthquakes and East Ohio drilling and I did not know if any of that impacted what Hilcorp was doing.
It sounds like from the wells and the number of wells you underscored that it was not? But I just wanted to make sure I was clear on it.
Carl this is Steve.
I'll take the first question and I'll let Bob answer the Hilcorp question.
The mineral rights royalty revenue for the first quarter was $7 million.
Okay excellent.
And Carl with regard to Hilcorp Ohio regulatory activities in and around fracking first of all we believe Ohio's response stable house [ph] response to concerns was constructive measured reasonable.
And we don't see it materially impacting Hilcorp's drilling program in Ohio.
Having said that Hilcorp is concentrating most of their activity -- current activity in Pennsylvania.
Okay.
Let me just maybe add a little bit more clarification around WB.
Going west one key point of intersection for the WB expansion is at Broad Run or what we call Broad Run and that's an intersection or delivery point into Tennessee.
So that's a path that's included within the scope of WB.
If we put additional gas to our Leach point that is the northern end of Columbia Gulf we would have additional opportunities to send Gulf gas out additional opportunities to invest.
Does that help Carl? We have another question for you.
This one is from John Edwards at Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So just following on Carl's question and your discussion.
I mean with the possibility of making Columbia bidirectional I mean just -- is there any kind of ballpark capital that we could be thinking about in terms of what that might cost? Yes.
I'd ask you to bear with us on both Rayne Leach XPress and WB XPress on capital shippers and the like.
I would though suggest that if you look at the open seasons on Rayne Leach XPress' on WB XPress' you'll see significant volumes significant quantities involved in both projects.
You'll also see the advertised rates for those projects.
And I think as you look at that information and as you think about modeling you can develop some scenarios that I think would be reasonable in and around CapEx.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Fair enough.
Okay.
And then the earlier question with regard to the earnings growth have you calculated or maybe you could tell us what you think -- what kind of capital investment you think it takes to edge up that earnings growth say another 1%? We really haven't looked at it that way John.
I mean you clearly can do the math on every $100 million of incremental CapEx and put a multiplier on that and impute some growth.
But what I would emphasize that this company has grown so quickly and has launched so many initiatives be it regulatory legislative commercial replacement whatever.
We're still in the mode of digesting and growing into that very aggressive growth rate.
And once we reach stability we're going to be in a much better position to give you a very reliable take it to the bank sort of prospective growth rate.
So that's the way we think about it and we do think of it on a long-term basis.
In the meantime we're going to execute against the plan and we're going to deliver the numbers that we say we're going to deliver.
We have another question for you.
This one is from Becca Followill from U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been answered.
Becca kudos on the fond reports that you all published I think it was yesterday or last week.
really well done.
Comprehensive to say the least.
We have another question for you.
This one is from Chris Sighinolfi from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions just cleanup from me.
Very strong volumes at NIPSCO on both the industrial and wholesale side this quarter.
Much stronger than we've seen in quite some time in a period.
Obviously weather had an impact but curious if there was anything sort of specific outside of weather that was influencing industrial and wholesale volumes? And if that changed at all your outlook for the business for the remainder of the year? I'll answer the last first.
It really doesn't change the fundamental outlook of the business and frankly it's a little bit of a non-intuitive outcome of weather that drove the numbers.
Many of our large industrial customers have self generating capabilities.
Because of the severe weather because of maintenance requirements because of whatever they were unable to generate as much power as they typically do.
So they fell back.
They relied on NIPSCO to supply that power.
So that drove a big part of the number.
We also had opportunistic opportunities to sell power off-system during the quarter again weather-related.
So on a run-rate basis we don't see either one of those as recurring.
Episodically we'll have those opportunities but hard to see them through the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's really helpful.
And then maybe a question for Steve.
On Columbia Pipeline the asset sale.
Noticed you had some last year I think most of that was tied to sale of the storage base gas.
So I'm just curious what the sale was in 1Q? And if you have sort of any degree of expectation for what might be in the hopper for the rest of the year at the Pipeline Group on that front? Sure.
The $17.5 million is associated with the modernization of leases that were incorporated into the Pennant joint venture.
There are about 3 000-or-so leases that were modernized to allow for horizontal drilling today.
And once those leases were modernized we took the income associated with them in the first quarter.
If you look out the balance of 2014 there's probably another $3 million or so of that modernized lease revenue that we will be receiving as a result of that activity.
[Operator Instructions] Another question from Carl Kirst at BMO Capital.
Sorry just a quick follow-up mainly because of the strength of first quarter results obviously a big delta year-over-year and understanding we're still very early in the year and so perhaps there is some reluctance for instance to move up the guidance curve at this point.
But simply with what we've seen in the first quarter it would almost imply that the expectation for the next 9 months for instance is basically just flat with last year.
And so I guess my question is is there any -- is this just sort of out of an abundance of caution earlier in the year? Are there perhaps some timing issues that maybe shifted some earnings into the first quarter? That this is more sort of a timing or shape of the quarter curve if you will for the full year? I just want to make sure we've got the right read of it.
To your point a very strong quarter positions us well for the year but as you also observed there's 9 months to go and a lot of blocking and tackling left.
So at this point we want to take it one quarter by one quarter and if we feel like there's a reason to move it up we will do so.
But right now we're still within the range.
Understood.
Just wanted to touch base.
Carl while I have you one other thing I'd add about WB and I know there's a lot of interest about both of the XPress' project.
Just to be clear on the WB XPress project while I suggested it takes gas west which it does it also is designed to take gas east.
So just wanted to make sure you're aware of that.
Thank you very much.
There's no further questions.
So I'd now like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
Ian thanks so much.
And to everyone that has participated we appreciate your interest your support and we will remain in touch.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That concludes your conference.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2014 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Grant and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session toward the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Randy Hulen Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Grant and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I would like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer and Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the second quarter of 2014 and to provide an overall business update.
We will then open the call to your questions.
Also at times during the call we will refer to the supplemental slides available on nisource.com.
I would like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And finally prior to turning the call over to Bob Skaggs I wanted to confirm that we have formally scheduled an Investor Day meeting in New York for September 29.
This event will be webcast so that all interested investors can participate.
We look forward to your participation so stay tuned for further details on timing and location.
Now Bob the call is yours.
Thanks Randy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As we noted in this morning's release the NiSource team delivered another quarter of solid execution and financial performance.
On today call we'll touch on key highlights from the quarter discuss how they position NiSource for continued growth in 2014 and beyond.
Chief Financial Officer Steve Smith will review our financial results.
We'll also provide updates on key execution highlights across each of our businesses and of course we'll leave plenty of time for your questions.
So with that in mind let's get started with some key takeaways from the quarter.
You'll see these listed on slide three in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning.
As I mentioned our NiSource team once again delivered a solid quarter.
Each of our business units continued to execute on our investment-driven business plan.
This consistent execution has put us in a position to deliver earnings at the upper half of our non-GAAP earnings guidance of $1.61 to a $1.71 per share.
Our Columbia Pipeline Group Unit continued to make steady progress on expanding inventory of growth modernization in midstream investment opportunities.
Many of these initiatives are tied closely to the company's strategic position in the Marcellus and Utica Shale regions.
In our gas distribution business Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick signed landmark legislation authorizing accelerated recovery of infrastructure modernization investments.
Columbia Gas of Massachusetts intends to file a construction plan with the DPU by October 31st of this year and expects to begin recovering investments on May 1 2015.
In Indiana our NIPSCO gas and electric business obtained regulatory approval of a $700 million natural gas modernization program which will complement a $1.1 billion electric system modernization program.
In addition to system modernization the NIPSCO gas program provides for expansion of its gas distribution system into rural areas in Northern Indiana.
With those quick highlights let me turn the call over to Steve Smith to take a closer look at our financial results on Page four of our supplemental slides.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned the NiSource team delivered another solid quarter and we're on track to deliver year-end earnings at the upper half of our guidance range.
We generated quarterly non-GAAP net operating earnings of about $78 million or $0.25 per share which compares to about $73 million or $0.23 per share in 2013.
On an operating earnings basis NiSource was up about $24 million when compared to the same period in 2013.
On a GAAP comparison our income from continuing operations was about $79 million for the second quarter of 2014 versus about $72 million in 2013.
At the segment level you will see that each of our three core business units delivered solid financial results during the second quarter.
Columbia Pipeline Group or CPG delivered operating earnings of about $104 million compared to about $89 million in 2013.
CPG's net revenues excluding the impact of trackers were up about $22 million primarily as a result of growth projects placed in to service and increased mineral rights royalty revenue.
Operating expenses again excluding the impact of trackers increased by about $10 million primarily due to an increase in employee and administrative costs and higher depreciation.
NIPSCO's electric operations delivered about $60 million in operating earnings compared to about $59 million for the prior year.
Net revenues excluding trackers were up about $12 million primarily due to higher industrial and commercial margins and increased environmental investment cost recovery.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in off-system sales.
Operating expenses excluding the impact of trackers increased by about $11 million due primarily to higher electric generations cost.
And finally earnings for the quarter at our gas distribution business came in at about $63 million compared with about $52 million for 2013.
Net revenues again excluding the impact of trackers were up by nearly $26 million primarily due to increases in regulatory and service programs.
Operating expenses excluding the impact of trackers increased by about $15 million due primarily to increased outside service costs higher depreciation due to an increase in capital expenditures and increased employee and administrative costs.
Overall it was another solid quarter for the NiSource team.
Full details are available in our earnings release posted online this morning.
Now turning to slide five I'd like to quickly touch on our financing and liquidity highlights.
As you can see we retained a strong liquidity position with approximately $1.2 billion of net available liquidity at the end of the second quarter.
I'm also pleased to reiterate that our capital program for 2014 remains on track at about $2.2 billion.
As we've indicated in the past the majority actually more than three quarters of our investments are focused on tracked and other revenue generating opportunities.
Looking ahead our financial strategy continues to be balanced straightforward and fully aligned with our robust long-term capital investment outlook.
And we remain strongly committed to maintaining our investment grade credit ratings as well as sustainable earnings and dividend growth.
With that I'll turn the call back to Bob to cover some of our business unit initiatives and execution highlights.
Thanks Steve.
Before opening the call to your questions let me hit on some key execution highlights at each of our business units.
Let's start with the CPG Group on slide six.
Our CPG team originated and delivered significant customer-driven growth projects in the quarter and continues to extend its already deep inventory of projects.
From a growth project perspective the team began engineering and planning for the Utica access project.
This $50 million project will transport Utica gas for Eclipse Resources to liquid trading points on the Columbia Gas Transmission system in West Virginia.
Additionally Columbia Transmission reached an agreement to provide firm transportation service to a natural fired gas electric generation plant in Kentucky.
The roughly 70 million cubic feet per day $25 million project is expected to begin service in mid-2016.
Meanwhile CPGs 250 million cubic feet per day Warren County project is ready for service to support WABCOs new gas fire electric plant in Virginia.
CPG also continues to advance its Rayne Leach and WB XPress projects which we regard as been transformational in nature.
The Rayne and Leach projects are in the latter stages of development and we expect to have additional details to share on these projects in a matter of weeks.
As a reminder the two projects will provide additional transportation capacity of about 1.5 Bcf and 800 million cubic feet per day on the Columbia transmission and Columbia Gulf transmission systems.
The projects will go into service late 2017.
On the WB XPress this project is a bit further out but we also expect to share additional details on this build later this quarter.
This project would add another 1.3 billion cubic feet per day of transportation of Marcellus production to pipeline interconnects an east coast markets.
The WB XPress project will go in to service late 2018.
Columbia transmission also remains on track with the second year of its long-term system modernization program.
Under the program CPG is investing approximately $300 million annually in improvements to system reliability integrity and flexibility.
Settlement with company's customers addresses the initial five years of an expected 10 to 15 year program that will exceed $4 billion in investments.
At NiSource Midstream Services the team has completed the facility of its first phase of its Hickory Bend gathering and processing project.
In addition our Midstream team has begun executing on the approximately $120 million Washington County gathering project announced on our first quarter call.
As a reminder this project is anchored by a long-term agreement with Range Resources.
This project is expected to be in service during the second half 2015.
The Midstream team is also in advance discussions with customers about 175 million cubic feet per day expansion of the Big Pine Gathering System.
As you can see the CPG team continues to capitalize on its solid relationships and strategic position to extend an already deep inventory of projects.
Next let's shift to our Indiana electric business summarized on slide seven.
NIPSCO continues to advance a broad agenda of system modernization reliability and environmental improvements.
On the projects front NIPSCO is moving forward with its $1.1 billion electric modernization program approved in February by the IURC.
The seven year program provides for the replacement and upgrade of underground circuits transformers and poles helping increase system reliability and deliver economic development benefits to the region.
Progress also continued on two major NIPSCO electric transmission projects designed to enhance region wide system flexibility and reliability.
Both are on schedule and on budget.
Most recently the route was selected for the Greentown-Reynolds project a roughly 70-mile 765 KV line being constructed jointly with Pioneer Transmission.
Meanwhile the 100-mile 345 KV Reynolds to Topeka project remains on schedule with right-of-way acquisition and permitting in process.
These projects involve an investment of about $500 million for NIPSCO and are expected to be in service by the end of 2018.
And as we've discussed on prior calls our NIPSCO power gen scrubber projects remain on schedule and on budget With completion dates of year end 2014 and year end 2015 these investments are part of more than $850 million of the environmental investments at NIPSCO.
Let's turn now to our gas distribution operations discussed on slide eight.
Our gas distribution teams continue to steadily execute on their long term and growing inventory of infrastructure replacement and enhancement programs.
We're on track to invest approximately $785 million in 2014 on system modernization and other capital improvements.
And as you know we pair those investments with complementary legislative and regulatory initiatives as well as customer programs.
I already mentioned the landmark legislation signed in to law in Massachusetts.
This is a significant achievement which provides a mechanism that better aligns the timing of investments with recovery and paves the way for a sustained system modernization program.
As I noted earlier our CMA team will be submitting a construction plan under the new law later this year.
On the regulatory front we filed our first rate case in four years of Columbia Gas of Virginia.
The case is seeking a revenue increase of approximately $25 million which would support CGV's ongoing efforts to accommodate growth as well as cost recovery of CGV's multi-year distribution system modernization program.
A decision is expected by the end of the year.
Meanwhile the Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania's rate case remains on track.
That's a $54 million request which would support continuation of CPA's ongoing modernization program.
We expect a resolution later this year.
As you can see our gas distribution companies continue to steadily execute on a well-established agenda of long-term investment in system reliability and customer programs.
To wrap up given the teams strong execution of the plan we're now positioned to achieve results at the upper half of our 2014 non-GAAP guidance range of $1.61 to a $1.71 per share.
I also want to reiterate that our team continues to execute against NiSources robust investment driven business strategy and we're doing so while staying true to our well established core commitments.
Those are maintaining stable investment grade credit ratings delivering stable and long-term dividend growth delivering stable and long-term earnings growth.
And last but not least as Randy mentioned in his introduction we're hosting an Investor day on Monday September 29th.
Consistent with our past sessions our team will be providing a detailed discussion of the NiSource investment proposition supported by an in-depth review of our growth opportunities and investment inventories across each of our business units.
We're looking forward to that meeting and your participation.
Again thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest in and support of NiSource.
Grant we can now open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Please standby for your first question.
And our first question is coming from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hey good morning Paul.
How are you? Good good.
Congratulations on another solid quarter.
Thank you.
Well it was a nice quarter.
I appreciate it.
Can we put bookmarks around the potential capital for Leach and Rayne?  Paul I ask you to bear with me.
In just a matter of weeks a mere matter of weeks we're going to give you a lot of detail around both of those projects and there'll be a heck of a lot more than bookmarks.
Sounds good.
And then how should we think about the dividend going forward just growing with earnings? Continue to grow on a robust basis.
We'll give you more of a sense at Investor Day about the way we think about it.
But as you know we're balancing a very very strong investment program strong earnings growth rate and a strong dividend.
So again I ask you to bear with me a little bit more color commentary when we see in the -- in to September.
And given the pretty impressive backlog of projects could we look for you to revisit your growth rate in September? We'll talk about that in September Paul again we're going to cover the waterfront certainly earnings growth will be one of the key topics among many that we'll touch on.
September can't get here soon enough I guess.
So Im looking forward to it.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you for your question there.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman from Morningstar.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Hi Charles.
Massachusetts can you just over what was the key differences in the existing prior program and under the new legislation and I guess the follow-up already would be is $25 million to $50 million that you are showing on actually what slide 16 of annualized investment can we anticipate that to go up or would that -- will the new legislation just put that in the upper range? Yeah let me start with the question about then and now.
The Massachusetts regulatory approach was a more traditional regulatory approach.
We file periodically rate cases and because of that convention there tended to be a significant lag much greater than 12 months on CapEx investments.
So again a traditional rate case sort of mode that we follow and all the other utilities follow to Massachusetts.
What the new legislation would provide for you to file an annual construction plan for your modernization activities.
We intend to file that plan by the end of October.
The DPU has six months to consider the plan and then you begin rate recovery on investments beginning in the spring of 2015.
So the lag is effectively eliminated.
You'll be recovering on your investments as you make those investments during the period.
So that's how the mechanism will work versus how it worked traditionally.
Give or take were spinning annually about $40 million in Massachusetts on modernization ongoing maintenance and the like.
Under the new program again we're developing our plan.
We'll file it at the end of October.
We anticipate our spending will pick up but we've been spending at a very good clip in Massachusetts up to this point.
By the way I would add that there is a cap in the legislation on how large the programs can be and Ill have Randy check this but I believe it's 1.5% of your firm annual revenues is how the program is capped.
And that program is a traditional type replacement type program? Correct.
That's it.
Thanks Bob.
Yeah.
You're welcome.
Thank you for your question now.
Our next question comes from the line of [Brian Luski] from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
I was just wondering whether or not youll have a decision on your MLP at the Analyst Day.
Is that your expectation that you would have a decision one way or another there? Well again I'm just going to ask you to bear with me.
I'm going to pass on that question and I'll just repeat that the meeting in September 29th is intended to be exhaustive.
So we're going to deep dive all of our businesses and all the considerations that we've been working on.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Thank you for your question.
(Operator Instructions).
We have no further questions at this time.
I would therefore now like to turn the call over to Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
All right.
Grant thank you very much and thanks to everyone for participating today and your ongoing interest and support of the company.
We look forward to seeing you and speaking with you on September 29th in New York.
So thanks and have a good day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This now concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Enjoy the rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2014 NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Michelle and I'm your event manager.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand the call over to Mr.
Randy Hulen Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource I would like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs President and Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Smith Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review our financial performance for the third quarter of 2014 and to provide an overall business update.
We will then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we will refer to the supplemental slides available on nisource.com.
I would like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
And prior to turning the call over to Bob Skaggs I wanted to remind everyone that we did file our S-1 on September 29 with the SEC for our planned MLP.
As we did on Investor Day we appreciate your patience around the amount of information that we're going to be able to provide around the entire CPG segment.
And with those items out of the way the call is now yours Bob.
Thanks Randy.
And good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
It was good to see many of you at our Investor Day just over a month ago.
As you heard there's a lot of excitement at NiSource.
We're executing on a visible and deep long-term investment inventory and driving forward a plan to create 2 premier pure-play energy companies by mid-2015.
We'll share execution highlights for each of our businesses in a moment.
But first and foremost let's discuss the most recent quarter where our team again delivered solid performance.
In fact for the quarter financially and operationally we posted results that we're squarely on plan.
You'll see key takeaways from the quarter on Slide 3 in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning.
And with our continued strong performance I'm pleased to reaffirm the enhanced earnings outlook we shared last quarter.
We continue to expect NiSource to deliver 2014 earnings at the upper half of our non-GAAP earnings guidance range of $1.61 to $1.71.
Fueling that performance is NiSource's steady execution on a broad array of stakeholder-focused infrastructure investment opportunities.
As noted on this slide our teams remain solidly on track to complete a record $2.2 billion in capital investments during 2014.
And those of you familiar with our Investor Day presentation will recall that we have now identified approximately $45 billion in expected long-term investment opportunities.
This inventory translates into approximately $30 billion of investment opportunities in our regulated gas and electric utilities over the next 20-plus years and about $15 billion at Columbia Pipeline Group over the next 10 years.
Before handing off to Steve I would quickly note that we are fully on track with our separation of NiSource into 2 highly focused energy infrastructure companies.
Under that plan NiSource will become a pure-play fully regulated natural gas and electric utility and Columbia Pipeline Group will become a pure-play natural gas pipeline midstream and storage company.
I won't rehash all of the separation details but I do want to highlight a few key points: First the transaction is expected to be tax-free and value creating.
Second both companies are expected to be investment-grade credits after the separation.
And third we expect to complete the transition in mid-2015.
As Randy mentioned our planned master limited partnership Columbia Pipeline Partners filed a form S-1 registration with the SEC on September 29.
All details of the planned MLP can be found in that form S-1.
Now let me turn the call over to Steve Smith to review our third quarter financial results on Page 4 of the supplemental slides.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned we're right on plan for the third quarter and on track to deliver year-end earnings at the upper half of our guidance range.
We generated quarterly non-GAAP net operating earnings of about $46 million or $0.14 per share which compares to about $57 million or $0.18 per share in 2013.
On an operating earnings basis NiSource was down about $3 million when compared to the same period in 2013.
On a GAAP comparison our income from continuing operations was about $32 million for the third quarter of 2014 versus about $50 million in 2013.
At the segment level you will see that each of our 3 core business units delivered solid financial results during the third quarter.
CPG delivered operating earnings of about $94 million compared to about $99 million in 2013.
CPG's net revenues excluding the impact of trackers were up about $19 million primarily due to growth projects placed into service.
Operating expenses excluding the impact of trackers increased by about $25 million primarily due to higher employee and administrative costs and the current-period impact of a gain on the sale of storage assets in 2013.
NIPSCO's electric operations delivered about $90 million in operating earnings compared to about $91 million for the prior year.
Net revenues excluding trackers were up about $12 million primarily due to higher industrial and residential margins and increased environmental investment cost recovery.
Operating expenses again excluding the impact of trackers increased by about $12 million due primarily to higher employee and administrative costs and higher electric generation costs.
And finally earnings for the quarter at our Gas Distribution business unit came in at about $1 million compared with a loss of about $1 million for 2013.
Net revenues again excluding the impact of trackers were up by nearly $17 million primarily due to increases in regulatory and service programs.
Operating expenses excluding the impact of trackers increased by about $15 million due primarily to increased employee and administrative costs and higher depreciation as a result of increased capital spending.
These increases were partially offset by lower environmental costs.
Overall it was another solid quarter for the NiSource team and full details are available in our earnings release posted online this morning.
Now turning to Slide 5.
I'd like to quickly touch on our financing and liquidity highlights.
As you can see we retained a strong liquidity position with approximately $900 million of net available liquidity at the end of the third quarter.
I'm also pleased to reiterate that our capital program for 2014 remains on track at about $2.2 billion.
And with that I'll turn the call back to Bob for an update on key initiatives in each of our business units.
Bob? Yes.
Thanks Steve.
Before opening the call to your questions I'll touch on a few key execution highlights starting with CPG on Slide 6.
As we outlined at Investor Day CPG expects to invest up to $15 billion in modernization and growth projects over the next 10 years with most major projects currently in execution or in advanced stages of development.
Earlier this month CPG placed in service ahead of schedule and on budget fully subscribed West Side Expansion project.
With completion of this $200 million project a portion of the Columbia Gulf System is now fully bidirectional in transporting Marcellus gas south to Gulf Coast and Southeast.
CPG also placed in service the approximately $25 million Giles County project.
This project supports conversion of a large end-user's coal boilers to natural gas.
Meanwhile CPG teams are in full execution mode on several transformational growth projects.
First and foremost work is underway on the $1.75 billion Leach and Rayne XPress projects.
These projects will create a major new pathway for delivering about 1.5 billion cubic feet per day of shale production via the Columbia Transmission system and 1 billion cubic feet per day via Columbia Gulf.
Both projects are expected to be in service by the end of 2017.
The team is also advancing the WB XPress project which is expected to provide another major pathway for delivering shale gas to market.
As we outlined at Investor Day the WB XPress is an approximately $870 million project to transport about 1.3 billion cubic feet of shale gas on the Columbia Transmission system to pipeline interconnects in the East Coast markets.
The project includes capacity to support the Cove Point LNG terminal.
We expect to clear the last remaining condition prior to year's end.
We're also quite encouraged by strong customer interest following the nonbinding open season for the Mountaineer XPress project.
The project scope is currently being refined and discussions with potential shippers are on a fast track.
I'd also note that CPG continues to execute on its landmark system modernization program.
By the end of the year the company will file with the FERC to recover costs for the second year of modernization investments.
CPG will place about $330 million in system improvements in service by October 31 and anticipates cost recovery to begin in February 2015.
On the midstream front the team is continuing to capitalize on CPG's strong asset position in the Marcellus and Utica regions.
Our team started work on the $120 million Washington County Gathering project.
The project will consist of gathering pipelines and compression facilities in Western Pennsylvania with an in-service date of late 2015.
The midstream team also is expanding and optimizing it's Big Pine Gathering System to support Marcellus Shale production in Western Pennsylvania.
We're on track to invest about $65 million in enhancements which will translate into about 175 million cubic feet per day of added capacity by the third quarter of 2015.
So as you can see on all fronts the CPG team is actively executing against a truly impressive and indeed transformational growth agenda.
And speaking of strong execution let's shift next to our utility businesses starting with NIPSCO our Indiana electric and natural gas business summarized on Slide 7.
NIPSCO is continuing to deliver on its business strategy with an inventory of investment opportunities approaching $10 billion for electric infrastructure and $5 billion for gas infrastructure over the next 20-plus years.
During the third quarter NIPSCO launched its 7-year natural gas modernization program which is now expected to reach an investment level of $860 million which complements the company's ongoing $1.1 billion electric system modernization program.
Progress also continued on 2 major NIPSCO electric transmission projects designed to enhance region-wide system flexibility and reliability.
Right-of-way acquisition and permitting are underway for both projects.
You'll recall these projects involve an investment of about $0.5 billion from NIPSCO and are anticipated to be in service by the end of 2018.
And last but not least as we shared with you previously NIPSCO is on plan with its 2 remain electric generating station scrubber projects.
The second scrubber unit at Schahfer Station will be in service by the end of this year and our Michigan City scrubber is on pace for completion by the end of 2015.
These 2 projects are part of more than $850 million in environmental investments recently completed or planned in NIPSCO's generating facilities.
Turning to our gas distribution operations on Slide 8.
You can see a similar story of large-scale infrastructure investment paired with complementary regulatory and customer program initiatives.
Touching on a few highlights from the quarter.
In Pennsylvania parties to our pending CPA rate case jointly submitted a settlement on September 5.
The proposed settlement provides for recovery of infrastructure modernization investments and would increase annual revenues by about $33 million.
Earlier this month the administrative law judge issued a favorable recommendation to approve the settlement notably without modification.
We expect the final ruling by the Pennsylvania Commission by year's end.
In Virginia we expect a decision during the first quarter of 2015 on Columbia Gas of Virginia's $25 million base rate case that was filed in April.
And Columbia Gas of Massachusetts remains on track to file a priority pipe replacement plan with the Massachusetts DPU on October 31.
Legislation authorizing accelerated recovery of gas infrastructure modernization investments took effect in Massachusetts earlier this year.
Under its plan CMA expects to begin recovery of 2015 infrastructure investments made under the program in May 2015.
So as you can see the NiSource gas distribution team continues to deliver steady solid progress on a $20 billion inventory of infrastructure opportunities spanning the next 20-plus years.
Let me wrap up by reiterating a few key points.
First we're steadily executing on our plan and we're again reaffirming 2014 earnings in the upper half of our guidance range.
Second we have an unparalleled long-term infrastructure investment inventory one that now approaches $45 billion.
And third we're well on our way towards successfully completing our recently announced separation that will result in the creation of 2 pure-play highly focused and well-capitalized companies premier companies that will be better positioned to execute on their distinct strategies and deliver enhanced long-term growth.
Once again thanks for participating today and for your ongoing interest in and support of NiSource.
Michelle we're ready to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] First question we have comes from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
You indicate you're waiting on a legal ruling before you proceed with the MLP.
Is that a PLR? Or is that more informal? No.
Paul this is Steve.
We're just going through the process with the SEC at this point.
We're not waiting for any legal ruling or PLR.
We don't need one to proceed with the MLP.
It's just part of the registration process that we're going through with the SEC at this point.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then secondly at the risk of drawing a bread box illusion can you maybe kind of put a capital number around Mountaineer? It could be sizable Paul.
I think you can look at the potential volumes capacity that we're looking at and maybe as a proxy look at the Rayne Leach or the WB XPress and I think that you would be circling around the so-called bread box.
Research Division</strong> That's a pretty big bread box.
And I would say again we're encouraged but as these projects go we need to get across the finish line.
So the team continues to work hard and stay tuned for more details.
The next question we have comes from the line of Charles Fishman from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Bob or Steve can you remind me on the 2 transmission projects that MISO had approved were those MVP projects where the ROE was pretty much already set? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Well then in the recent FERC Order here that FERC is going to hear the challenge to those ROEs can that be modified? Are those set in stone? How does that work? Just a couple of observations.
One I believe that there is a notable decision on a PJM transmission ROE complaint so we regard that as being instructive not dispositive but instructive.
And so we are now in process around the complaint that you refer to involving our projects.
And so that's going to be a process at the FERC could be litigated could be settled.
And again clearly we got some information from PJM that may or may not be relevant.
To your question about the impact on our projects yes there could be an impact.
I'm not practicing law here but I believe that when the complaint -- the date of when the complaint filed is relevant and so there could be a reset back to that date and then going forward.
I'd also observe this that if you look at the returns on the project the way we have currently conceived or if you looked at other returns that are out there in the electric transmission world these projects are very very valuable.
They're accretive.
The economics work and so they're very attractive projects we think under virtually any reasonable circumstance.
The next question we have comes from the line of Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
In terms of the West Side Expansion when is that due to actually come online? I know it's fourth quarter but is that sort of reaching mechanical completion? Or...
It's online.
Research Division</strong> Is online now? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Was that online as of like this month? Or was it -- that happened -- I guess I missed that.
Was that August September? Or was that...
It was midmonth.
It was due to be put online under the agreements here at the end of the month versus next month.
So again we were ahead of schedule and on budget for this project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that flowing at a full 500 million cubic feet a day? We have to get back to you.
I think it's on a ramp and will ramp up over a period of time.
But we'll ask Randy to get you a sense of what's actually flowing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That sounds good.
On Rayne and Leach so have you received all the permits required to begin construction on that? I thought that you had...
No we're just beginning the process and time elapsed it's going to take about 3 years give or take to get this project from when we contract it to in the ground.
So we're just at the beginning or early stages of that process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no phasing of it.
It's all -- it will all sort of light up at the same time in the fourth quarter of '17 and so...
I didn't really say that.
Now there could be some phasing of transportation depending on what part we're talking about and when.
So again we can provide more color down the road when we get a little bit more detail on the project but there could be opportunities for that.
Sir you have no further questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] We have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
Yes thanks Michelle.
And to everyone thanks again for your participation and interest.
We look forward to seeing most if not all of you in a couple of weeks at EI [ph].
So again thanks.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Welcome to the NiSource Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Randy Hulen Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
On behalf of NiSource and Columbia Pipeline Partners I would like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs Chief Executive Officer and Steve Smith Chief Financial Officer.
As you know the primary focus of today's call is to review NiSource's financial performance for the full year and fourth quarter of 2014 as well as provide an overall business update.
Following our NiSource prepared remarks we will also share a brief overview of the predecessor results for Columbia Pipeline Partners which were released this morning.
We will then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we will refer to the supplemental slides available on our website.
I would like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors section of our periodic SEC filings.
With all those items out of the way the call is now yours Bob.
Thanks Randy.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
2014 was a watershed year for NiSource.
It was anchored by focused execution of a record infrastructure investment program and the initiation of strategic and transformational growth plans.
Those notably included the creation of Columbia Pipeline Partners and the announcement of the Columbia Pipeline Group spinoff.
If you will turn to slide 3 in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning you will see a few of the year's highlights.
The NiSource team delivered yet another year of solid operational performance and industry-leading financial results.
In 2014 we generated net operating earnings from continuing operations non-GAAP of $1.72 per share exceeding our guidance range of $1.61 to $1.71 per share and up nearly 9% from 2013 and we delivered total returns to our shareholders of 32% which outperformed the major utility indices for the sixth consecutive year.
Our team executed on a record $2.2 billion capital investment program made significant progress on various regulatory and legislative programs and originated several transformational growth projects at CPG.
These initiatives synched closely with our company-wide modernization initiatives delivered significant value to our customers by facilitating the development of significant shale resources and providing more modern safe efficient and environmentally friendly infrastructure.
They also benefit our communities through job creation and economic development and our shareholders through sustainable long-term returns.
During the year we also expanded our projected long-term inventory of infrastructure investments which is now targeted at $12 billion to $15 billion at CPG over the next 10 years and $30 billion at NiSource's utilities over 20 plus years.
As I noted at the top of the call 2014 marked the launch of two important strategic initiatives; the separation of CPG and the creation of Columbia Pipeline Partners.
On that note our team was pleased with Columbia Pipeline Partners' $1.2 billion initial public offering in early February.
The Partnership's offering was enthusiastically received by investors.
Steve will provide a brief update on the partnership as part of this morning's call.
We remain on track with the NiSource CPG separation process.
A couple of weeks ago we filed our initial form 10 registration statement with the SEC have announced key expected board members and the majority of executive team members for both companies.
Following the separation both companies are expected to move forward as independent investment grade pure play entities with experienced teams focusing on executing and elevating well-established platforms for growth.
As we look ahead to NiSource and CPG operating independent companies I wanted to briefly highlight their growth expectations.
As we first announced in our 2014 investor day NiSource as a pure play utility expects its average annual long-term earnings and dividend to grow at 4% to 6% over the long term.
As a pure play pipeline company with an MLP CPG is targeting its annual adjusted EBITDA growth in the mid- to upper teens over the next several years.
Its annual dividend growth is expected to be commensurate with this robust EBITDA growth.
With these very strong growth rates and deep investment inventories both companies will be positioned in the top tier of their peer groups.
As the separation date gets closer both NiSource and CPG will conduct roadshows to provide additional details on their projected performance profiles.
And just to expand on the growth for one moment we wanted to be absolutely clear on the fundamental baseline commitments of each company.
Therefore we provided earnings and dividend outlooks as well as capital expenditure outlooks.
We wanted to be clear on what long-term drivers are for each of the businesses.
We wanted to be helpful versus academic.
And as you know 2015 will be a split year for NiSource and CPG with significant developments unfolding during the first half of the year including the IPO of CPPL the recapitalization of CPG and NiSource as well as the separation itself and the ongoing development of Mountaineer XPress and Gulf XPress.
Again we wanted to provide what was helpful what was most constructive therefore our key commitments are key fundamental drivers.
As we mentioned roadshows will occur prior to separation to provide additional detail on 2015 2016 and the long term.
Now with that let me turn the call over to Steve Smith to review our 2014 financial results highlighted on page 4 of our supplemental slides.
Good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned we've exceeded our guidance range for the year by generating non-GAAP net operating earnings of about $545 million or $1.72 per share which compares to about $495 million or $1.58 per share in 2013.
On an operating earnings basis NiSource was up about $125 million.
By GAAP comparison our income to continuing operations was about $530 million for 2014 versus about $490 million for 2013.
At the segment level you will see in today's release that each of our three core business units delivered solid financial results.
CPG delivered operating earnings of about $491 million compared to about $441 million in 2013.
CPG's net revenues excluding the impact of trackers were up about $80 million.
NIPSCO's electric operations delivered about $288 million in operating earnings compared to about $265 million for the prior year.
Net revenues excluding trackers were up about $47 million.
And finally our Gas Distribution business unit came in at about $517 million compared to about $449 million in 2013.
Net revenues again excluding the impact of trackers were up about $126 million.
As our numbers attest it was another strong year for the NiSource team.
Full details of our results are available on our earnings release issued and posted online this morning.
Now turning to slide 5 I would like to briefly touch on our financing and liquidity positions.
We retained a strong liquidity position with approximately $720 million of net available liquidity at the end of the year.
Of our record $2.2 billion capital investment program approximately 76% of these investments were focused on revenue-generating opportunities.
Our debt to capitalization came in at about 62% of the end of the year.
And as Bob mentioned we remain on track with the NiSource CPG separation.
In that regard we have taken several key steps to establish a strong financial foundation for both companies.
The first step was to secure two separate credit facilities that will become effective at the separation.
We entered into two $1.5 billion five-year credit facilities one for NiSource and the other for CPG.
These facilities will replace NiSource's existing $2 billion agreement.
At the same time we entered these agreements we also entered into a $500 million five-year facility at Columbia Pipeline Partners which went into effect at the time of the IPO.
The next major step in this process is the recapitalization which is on schedule to commence in the second quarter.
We will provide additional updates on this process in our first quarter earnings update and through other public announcements.
With that I will turn the call back to Bob to discuss a few execution highlights from each of our business units.
Thanks Steve.
Let's start with CPG highlights on slide 6.
The CPG team continues to advance a steady stream of transformational growth and modernization projects.
As I noted earlier CPG expects to invest up to $15 billion in growth capital over the next 10 years with most major projects currently in execution or in advanced stages of development.
During 2014 CPG placed more than $300 million in system expansion projects and service adding approximately $1.1 billion cubic feet of system capacity.
An additional $200 million in midstream projects were put in service during the year and CPG's modernization work approached $320 million.
So in total for 2014 we added more than $800 million in new revenue-generating assets in service all on time and on budget.
Meanwhile the CPG team is in full execution mode on several ongoing and transformational growth projects.
In December the FERC approved the construction of the East Side expansion project which will provide approximately 315 million cubic feet per day of additional capacity for Marcellus supplies to reach growing mid-Atlantic markets.
This $275 million project is expected to be placed in service later this year.
In addition to the East Side expansion CPG has more than $3 billion of growth projects in progress that will add approximately 4 billion cubic feet of transportation capacity.
These projects include the Leach and Rayne XPress projects the WB XPress project and the Cameron Access project.
The Rayne and Leach projects collectively involve about $1.8 billion in system expansion creating a major new pathway for transporting shale production to attractive markets and liquid trading points.
Both projects are expected to be in service by the end of 2017.
WB XPress is almost a $900 million project to transport about 1.3 billion cubic feet of shale gas to East Coast markets and various pipeline interconnects including access to the go point LNG terminal and Cameron Access is a roughly $300 million investment that involves new pipeline facilities to connect with the Cameron LNG terminal in southern Louisiana.
The project will offer initial capacity of up to 800 million cubic feet per day.
Our Columbia midstream team also is continuing to capitalize on CPG's strong asset position in the Marcellus and Utica regions.
Midstream projects currently in progress include $120 million Washington County gathering project and the $65 million Big Pine expansion project.
Big Pine in the first phase of Washington County will be placed in service before the end of the year.
As you may recall during our prior discussions we've outlined plans for the potential Mountaineer XPress project.
We're now in advance commercial discussions with customers on this major project as well as a complementary project called Gulf XPress.
If implemented these projects would provide substantial transportation capacity out of the Marcellus and Utica shale regions.
These two projects could involve an investment as large as $2 billion to $2.5 billion.
We hope to complete commercial terms and clear all contractual outs by July.
As you can see on all fronts the CPG team is executing against an impressive and indeed transformational growth agenda.
In 2015 we're targeting a capital investment level of approximately $1.1 billion of CPG.
As you've heard us say before our intent is to triple our net asset base over the next five years.
With that let's now shift to our utility businesses starting with NIPSCO our Indiana electric and natural gas business summarized on slide 7.
NIPSCO is continuing to deliver on its commercial and customer strategy with an inventory of investment opportunities approaching $10 billion for electric infrastructure and $5 billion for gas infrastructure over the next 20 plus years.
2014 was a strong year for NIPSCO as well.
In the first half of 2014 NIPSCO commenced its seven-year natural gas and electric infrastructure modernization programs now expected to reach an investment level of nearly $2 billion and completed approximately $120 million of projects in 2014.
These investments will help improve reliability maintain system safety for the next generation.
On the environmental front in December NIPSCO placed the final FGD new unit in service at Schahfer Generating Facility.
This unit like the one placed in service during the fourth quarter of 2013 was delivered on time and on budget.
A third FGD unit at NIPSCO's Michigan City Generation Facility is on schedule to be placed in service by the end of 2015.
Following the completion of the Michigan City units all of NIPSCO's coal burning facilities will be fully scrubbed.
On the growth side progress also continued on two major NIPSCO electric transmission projects.
Right of away acquisition and permitting are underway for both projects and preliminary construction will begin on the 345 kV Reynolds to Topeka line in the first half of this year.
If you recall these projects involve an investment of about $0.5 billion for NIPSCO and are anticipated to be in service by the end of 2018.
Finally in addition to the continuation of NIPSCO's electric energy efficiency programs the IURC approved the extension of the green power rate program.
NIPSCO also reached a settlement on the continuation of its feed-in tariff program.
NIPSCO's agenda in 2015 remains focused on enhancing the reliability and environmental performance of the systems through modernization and replacement investments.
In addition to delivering customer programs that help reduce energy usage and manage bills these investments expected to reach nearly $400 million in 2015 deliver significant economic development and job creation activity in northern Indiana while at the same time delivering value to our investors.
Turning to our Gas Distribution Operations on slide 8 you can see a similar story of large-scale infrastructure investment paired with complementary regulatory and customer initiatives.
Touching on a few highlights from the year in November the Pennsylvania Commission approved the settlement in Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania's base rate case.
The case provides for recovery of CPA's investments in its well-established infrastructure modernization program and will increase annual revenues by approximately $33 million.
New rates went into effect in December.
Also in December Columbia Gas of Virginia reached a settlement with customers for its rate case which if approved would increase base rates by about $25 million.
Notably in January the hearing examiner in the case recommended approval of the settlement.
Final commission decision is expected by the end of the first quarter.
These rate cases along with one completed in Massachusetts provide for continued recovery of investments related to our well-established infrastructure programs which are designed to maintain and improve the safety and reliability of our systems.
Also in the fourth quarter Columbia Gas of Massachusetts filed its 2015 system gas system enhancement plan under new legislation authorizing accelerated recovery of gas infrastructure modernization investments.
If approved as filed cost recovery would increase annual revenues by approximately $2.6 million.
Across the gas utilities we expect to invest almost $900 million in 2015.
Together NiSource's industry-leading platform for utility growth provides significant reliability safety and environmental benefits to our existing and new customers while also delivering shareholder returns through transparent recovery mechanisms.
Shifting to slide 9 our key takeaways for 2015 we plan to execute our current business and customer plans while at the same time delivering the CPG spinoff on schedule in mid-2015.
We're moving ahead with another year of record capital investments targeted at $2.4 billion across our utilities and pipelines and a complementary regulatory and customer service agenda.
As for the separation we're well on our way to standing up two premier companies with an experienced slate of management and directors at both companies.
CPG and NiSource will be well-financed and strongly positioned to execute on their distinct strategies and deliver enhanced long-term earnings and dividend growth.
As I mentioned both NiSource and CPG will conduct roadshows prior to separation to provide detailed business profiles.
With those highlights for NiSource we will now shift to slide 11 in the NiSource deck and Steve will discuss Columbia Pipeline Partners IPO and its predecessor results.
Steve? Thanks Bob.
With the launch of CPPL we've introduced a best in class MLP to the market.
One with a strong supportive sponsor stable and predictable cash flows that are virtually insensitive to fluctuations in commodity prices and volumes a robust growth profile with a deep inventory of long-term infrastructure investments.
The strategic footprint overlaying the Marcellus and Utica shale production areas.
The financial strength and flexibility and a premier execution focused and experienced leadership team.
Our offering was very well received and we're very pleased with the continued positive response.
Let's quickly touch on our IPO and predecessor results on page 12.
The offering of approximately 54 million units at $23 per share raised nearly $1.2 billion.
The pricing offering on February 5 and subsequently began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CPPL the following day.
These units include the full [inaudible] allotment executed by the underwriters.
And as I mentioned previously our $500 million five-year revolving credit facility we entered into in December came effective upon the IPO.
Now let's turn to our predecessor results issued this morning for periods prior to the IPO.
As we outlined during our earlier NiSource remarks Columbia Pipeline Group executed on and placed into service a wide variety of high-value projects during the year.
These projects recorded CPPL's predecessor growth and will serve as the model for the partnerships growth in 2015 and beyond.
The predecessor reported net income of about $269 million for 2014 compared to about $267 million for 2013.
The increase is primarily a result of new growth projects placed in service new firm contracts and higher mineral rights royalties.
On an adjusted EBITDA basis the predecessor reported about $599 million in 2014 versus about $543 million in 2013.
These results provide us with a solid footing as we move forward with CPPL's strategy.
Bob? Thanks Steve and thank you for participating today and for your ongoing interest and support of NiSource and Columbia Pipeline Partners.
With that Nicholas we're ready to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of John Barta with KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
Bob thanks for the color on the Columbia kind of growth rates there.
First off are there any certain milestones we should be looking for regarding Mountaineer and Golf pipeline or did you say everything was going to be finalized in July? Yes we mentioned we hope to clear all of our contractual outs by July.
At the moment we're still working on agreements with the foundation shippers.
One event that we would point you to is open seasons both Mountaineer XPress and Gulf XPress.
If you see those in the coming weeks or so that would be a positive sign that the projects continue to be moving forward.
I would add those open seasons will be binding open seasons.
That would be one guidepost.
Our next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
If I could just maybe stay with Mountaineer and Gulf XPress for a second but perhaps ask it in a way to see if there has been any shift in tone in producer conversations and in particular if you've seen any reticence or pulling back midstream versus pipeline? Certainly your enthusiasm for the pipelines to hopefully have contracts by July would indicate that they are staying pretty positive and constructive.
But I just wanted to make sure I'm getting the right read here.
Yes.
You've hit the nail on the head.
It remains positive constructive.
We have been in very very close contact with our producer shipper customers both on the big work projects as well as the midstream projects.
Do you find a difference in the tenor of conversations between the midstream and the pipelines or just given the exposure to the region both are continuing to move forward? It's the latter.
There is not a material difference in tone.
As you know folks are being prudent with their CapEx for 2015.
Having said that they still remain fully committed to the Marcellus and Utica and they still focus on take away capacity particularly when you get into the 2017 2018 2019 timeframe.
And then maybe one last question on the larger pipes and recognizing hopefully we have a binding open season not too far away.
I guess should we think about the risk to the project? Is this more of a -- do you guys feel like you are in a competitive shootout with anybody or is this just a matter of getting the producers comfortable with the economics and trying to get to the right region but once they make that decision you guys or these projects are the obvious choice? I just want to make sure I got a good sense of that.
I wouldn't go so far as to say obvious choice but I would say that the focus tends to be on your latter point.
That being the economics the in service date and the like.
And then last question if I could and then maybe one for Steve.
I know of very tiny thing but I'm just curious given the difference of commodity prices is there any way we should think about the delta or the change in mineral or royalties that you guys are getting from the upstream exposure between 2015 and 2014? This is Steve.
I would say it's immaterial to the overall results going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Sighinolfi with Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
I just wanted to follow-up on of couple things.
I appreciate your color and comments on the CPG ex EBITDA and dividend growth profiles.
I was just curious assuming that you're not going to answer a question as to where the starting point is for 2015 if you could just help us frame as you think about it and the board thinks about it the policy considerations around the initial level.
I get the growth rate but as we think about where -- the variables that might shape where you guys ultimately set the starting point upon which we're going to grow at that mid to upper teens level.
Can you just give us some additional color on that front? Yes.
Two key considerations.
Number one as you know we're very sensitive to credit.
We're fully committed to investment grade credit.
We need to go through the credit rating process in the March timeframe as we prepare for recap.
So that starting point quite frankly is somewhat sensitive somewhat dependent on credit considerations.
The other is that the huge CapEx needs we have and so it's balancing credit CapEx and financing coming out of the gate.
Those are the key considerations for starting point.
Okay.
And so to dovetail on prior questions if some of the projects that are currently in discussion sounds like they are moving forward into execution like Mountaineer and Gulf that could be significant capital deployment.
I would imagine then that would be part of this conversation.
Correct.
As I pointed out in my prepared remarks that we do have the significant events as we come up to separation and that's certainly a huge huge variable as we look at the financials and the outlook for the business.
Perfect.
And I guess switching and perhaps this is a question for Steve.
Given the IPO I know priced 15% or so above the range and I'm imagining the full overallotment exercise.
Does that change at all the amount you had talked previously about a $3 billion debt recap.
Does that shape at all the expectations around that modestly or at all? Not to a large extent.
I mean it does help obviously from a credit perspective so we're very pleased with the outcome of the IPO.
With respect to the recapitalization it is not going to move the needle too dramatically either way.
We suggest still thinking in terms of $3 billion.
Okay.
And that I imagine will be profiled out in various tranches the various duration.
Am I incorrect in thinking that? That is correct.
Our current debt portfolio has a weighted average life of approximately 13.5 years.
We would shoot for something north of 10 years weighted average life.
So probably issue a basket of 5 10 and 30s to achieve that.
One final question for me there was a slight uptick even if I exclude the transaction costs for the fourth quarter that you reported in your corporate segment.
There was an uptick in the corporate line item.
Is there anything specific that's driving that or is that just a variance from year-to-year? That's just a variance from year-to-year.
We have a bit more outside services costs in there as well as a result of all the activities we have going on here currently with respect to the separations.
Our next question comes from the line of Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
The growth rate that you've outlined for CPG of mid- to upper-teens over what time frame is that? Next three to five years.
And are you willing to talk at this point about what type of payout ratio that assumes? Not at this point Becca.
Okay.
I understand.
And then the large CapEx program that you have at CPG how do you finance that going forward? Well the MLP is the sole source of equity through the period and we will be using it frequently to support that.
[Operator Instructions].Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
I assume you will take a couple questions on NIPSCO.
Slide 7 Bob the $67 million of the electric modernization plan to be expected to be spent in 2015.
100% of that is covered by trackers? That's correct.
And then I would assume if my math's correct $1.1 billion over seven years that's probably likely going to accelerate that number in 2016 or is this thing backend loaded? It gradually steps up and you may have heard us say in prior calls prior discussions as we complete the scrubber program the modernization program begins to tick up or step up.
Okay.
And then last question on NIPSCO the clean power plan if you look at what the EPA is proposing for Indiana a lot of coal plant heat rate improvement a lot of renewables a lot of efficiencies at the customer level.
Not a lot of gas CCDTs but have you had any initial discussions with Indiana about what what would be expected of NIPSCO if this thing comes in even close to what they are proposing? Yes.
We're in constant communications with our stakeholders with the state.
At this point nothing definitive has really been exchanged or decided.
But clearly we're working day to day with all those folks.
Now in the CPP plan for Indiana a lot of renewables is that something that's even on the radar screen as far as the electric utility or the NIPSCO that's after the separation that that's an investment opportunity that they might consider? Yes it could be down the road but I would say over the next few years still continues to play a modest role in the portfolio.
Thank you.
And with no further questions in the queue I will now like to turn the call over to the speakers for any closing remarks.
Thank you and thank you once again for your ongoing interest in NiSource and your ongoing support.
We greatly appreciate it.
Have a good safe day.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a good day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the NiSource Q1 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would like to introduce your host for today's conference Randy Hulen VP of Investor Relations.
Sir please begin.
Thank you and good morning.
On behalf of NiSource and Columbia Pipeline Partners I would like to welcome you to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me this morning are Bob Skaggs Chief Executive Officer; Steve Smith Chief Financial Officer; and Jo Hamrock currently Executive Vice President and Group CEO.
Soon to be Joe will be taking on the role of the NiSource CEO after our plant separation.
As you know the primary focus of today's call is to review NiSource's financial performance for the first quarter of 2015 as well as provide an overall business update.
Following the NiSource prepared remarks we also will share a brief overview of the first quarter results for Columbia Pipeline Partners which were also released this morning.
We will then open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we will refer to the supplemental slides available on our website.
And finally I would like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this conference call will be forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
With all those items out of the way I'd like to now turn the call over to Bob Skaggs.
Thanks Randy.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We have a crisp agenda today.
I'll touch on several key strategic takeaways.
Steve will review our financial results and then Joe and I will share key execution highlights for NiSource's utilities and CPG.
If you'll turn to Slide 3 in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning you'll see a few key takeaways for the quarter as well as an update of the separation of NiSource and Columbia Pipeline Group.
For the quarter results were solidly in line with our plan.
The NiSource team delivered $0.85 per share non-GAAP in the first quarter versus $0.82 per share in 2014.
Our teams also continued to execute on core infrastructure investment plans at all of our businesses and capital expenditures across our utility and pipeline segments remain on track.
As a reminder for 2015 we expect a record spend of $2.4 billion.
We also remain on track to complete the separation of NiSource and CPG which we anticipate will happen on July 1 2015.
At the time of the separation shareholders are expected to receive 1 share of Columbia Pipeline Group common stock for each share of NiSource common stock.
As you know the transaction is expected to be tax free for shareholders and the company.
In preparation for the separation experienced leadership teams have been named for both companies and just recently the respective NiSource and CPG executive teams discussed their go-forward financial plans with the 3 major credit-rating agencies.
As we said when we announced the separation we expect both companies will be investment grade.
Current expectations are that CPG will be formally rated prior to its May debt recapitalization transaction.
And the NiSource's credit ratings will be addressed at or about the time of separation.
With each step in the separation process including the debt recapitalization process we're positioning NiSource and CPG to be ranked among the leaders in their respective business segments.
We expect both will be well capitalized and have robust and transparent long-term growth plans growing dividends and solid leadership and the capacity and focus to deliver enhanced long-term growth.
To profile the business strategies and growth plans of the respective companies we've scheduled 2 separate webcasts on Thursday May 14.
First Joe Hamrock and team will provide an overview of NiSource's pure play utility business including its investment opportunities and its commitment to customers and the communities it serves.
Following the NiSource call CPG's executive team will host a similar call.
The team will highlight CPG's solid core business its strategically located assets and its portfolio of transformational modernization and growth opportunities.
The NiSource webcast will start at 9 a.m.
and the CPG webcast will begin at 10:30 a.m.
both Eastern Time.
The event with the company presentations will be available at www.nisource.com.
In addition to the May 14 webcast we'll maintain regular communication regarding the separation process through our normal channels including press releases and filings with the SEC.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steve Smith to review our first quarter financial results highlighted on Page 4 of our supplemental slides.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned we delivered non-GAAP net operating earnings of about $268 million or $0.85 per share which compares to about $258 million or $0.82 per share in the first quarter of 2014.
On an operating earnings basis NiSource was up about $20 million.
On a GAAP comparison our income from continuing operations was about $268 million for the first quarter versus about $266 million for the same period in 2014.
At the segment level you will see in today's release that each of our 3 core business segments delivered financial results in line with our expectations during the first quarter.
CPG delivered operating earnings of about $163 million compared to about $159 million in 2014.
CPG's net revenues excluding the impact of trackers were up about $22 million primarily due to new growth projects placed into service and new firm capacity contracts.
NIPSCO's electric operations delivered about $67 million in operating earnings compared to about $74 million in the same period in 2014.
Net revenues again excluding trackers were relatively flat due primarily to lower off-system sales.
And finally our Gas Distribution business came in at about $306 million compared to about $280 million in 2014.
Net revenues again excluding the impact of trackers were up about $43 million.
As the numbers attest we continue to deliver solid financial results.
Full details of our results are available in our earnings release issued and posted online this morning.
Now turning to Slide 5.
I'd like to briefly touch on our financing and liquidity position.
We retained a strong liquidity position with approximately $2 billion of net available capacity as of March 31.
Of our $2.4 billion capital investment program planned for 2015 at NiSource and CPG approximately 80% of these investments are focused on revenue-generating opportunities.
Our debt to capitalization remains solid at about 54% as of March 31.
And as Bob mentioned we remain on track with the NiSource CPG separation including establishing a strong financial foundation with expected investment-grade credit ratings.
A CPG long-term debt offering of $2.75 billion and the NiSource tender transaction will begin soon.
As we've noted previously the proceeds of CPG's debt offering will be used to fund a one-time cash distribution to NiSource prior to the separation.
With that I'll turn the call back to Bob and Joe to discuss a few execution highlights from our business segments.
Thanks Steve.
I'll start with highlights for CPG on Slide 6 and then Joe will cover highlights for NIPSCO and our gas utilities.
The CPG team continues to advance the steady stream of transformational growth projects which are in addition to its landmark modernization program.
The latest news on that front includes the completion of an open season for 2 major regulated transmission projects and the development of a new midstream project.
We're happy to report that we have a critical mass of firm customer commitments in place following the binding open season for the Mountaineer and Gulf XPress projects which concluded on April 23.
As a reminder these 2 projects would involve an investment of approximately $2.6 billion and would add 2.7 billion cubic feet per day of transportation capacity on Columbia Gas Transmission and nearly 900 million cubic feet per day of transportation capacity on the Columbia Gulf System.
And on the midstream front our team commenced discussions with a major producer on another dry gas gathering trunk line in southwestern Pennsylvania.
Once we have all the details confirmed we'll provide an update on this exciting new project.
All of CPG's other in-progress modernization growth and midstream projects remain on track.
You'll recall that CPG's targeted capital investment level for 2015 is approximately $1.1 billion.
A full highlight of our in-flight growth projects can be found on Pages 13 and 14 of the supplemental deck.
With that let me welcome Joe Hamrock to the call.
Joe? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Let's shift first to NIPSCO our Indiana electric and natural gas business summarized on Slide 7.
The NIPSCO team is continuing to deliver on our customer-focused strategy of investment opportunities approaching $10 billion for electric infrastructure and $5 billion for gas infrastructure over the next 20-plus years.
The FGD unit under construction at NIPSCO's Michigan City Generating Facility is on schedule to be placed in service by the end of 2015.
Following the completion of the Michigan City unit and with those we placed in service over the past 2 years all of NIPSCO's coal-burning facilities will be fully scrubbed.
NIPSCO's 2 major electric transmission projects are also progressing as planned.
Right-of-way acquisition and permitting are underway for both projects and preliminary construction began on a 345-kv Reynolds-Topeka line.
You'll recall these projects involve an investment of about $500 million for NIPSCO and are anticipated to be in service by the end of 2018.
We remain on track and committed to our Indiana electric and gas modernization programs.
As set forth in our TEDUS [ph] plan we have about $190 million in planned spend this year.
These investments help ensure continued safe reliable and affordable service to customers.
And as you likely saw earlier this month the Indiana Court of Appeals issued a ruling regarding some of the elements of the approved electric modernization plan.
The court upheld key components of the commission's order and one item related to the level of investment detail within the order will need to be revisited as part of the regulatory and legal process.
As the first utility to file a plan under the TEDUS [ph] Statute we recognized the potential for temporary delay.
We're evaluating the rule and remain committed to our modernization investments which are essential to our ongoing plan for upgrading our system to serve [indiscernible] now and into the future.
NIPSCO's agenda remains focused on customer service and high-value targeted programs that enhance the reliability and environmental performance of its systems.
Investments in our electric infrastructure are expected to reach nearly $400 million in 2015.
Turning to our Gas Distribution operations on Slide 8.
You can see a similar story of large scale infrastructure investment paired with complementary regulatory and customer programs.
Touching on a few regulatory highlights in recent months.
In March Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania filed a rate case with the Pennsylvania PUC to support continuation of our well-established infrastructure modernization and safety programs.
If approved as filed the case would increase annual revenues by approximately $46 million.
We expect a decision in that case later this year.
Columbia Gas of Massachusetts filed a rate case on April 16 with the Massachusetts Department of Public utilities seeking an annual revenue increase of approximately $49 million.
The filing reflects the company's commitment to maintain natural gas safety customer service and reliability.
A decision is expected in the first quarter of 2016 in that case.
Also in Massachusetts later today we expect the decision from the DPU for our 2015 Gas System Enhancement Plan.
Cost recovery associated with the 2015 investments outlined in the plan would begin tomorrow and increase annual revenues by approximately $2.6 million.
And Columbia Gas Virginia settled rate case remains pending before the commission.
A final order on the $25 million revenue increase is expected later this year.
In more recent news just last week the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio approved Columbia Gas of Ohio's annual infrastructure replacements and demand side management rider.
The rider provides for recovery of its well-established pipeline replacement program and energy efficiency program investments.
So overall we expect to invest approximately $900 million during 2015 across our company's Gas Distribution businesses.
These investments help improve reliability and safety for our customers and communities provide additional customer access to natural gas service and reduce emissions.
Through well-established recovering mechanisms in all 7 states these investments are expected to generate incremental revenue and sustainable returns for shareholders.
So in summary NiSource gas and electric utilities are in full execution mode on all fronts and very well positioned for the future.
Thanks again Bob.
And I'll hand things back to you.
Thanks Joe.
As you can see continued solid performance on a strong well-established growth strategy.
Before briefly discussing the results of Columbia Pipeline Partners and opening the call to your questions let me reiterate several key points.
We remain focused on and are on track with our current business and customer plans.
We remain on track with the CPG separation scheduled for July 1.
We expect both companies will be well financed and very well positioned to execute on their distinct strategies.
And now a couple of dates and actions related to the separation that I should highlight once again.
We expect to receive our CPG credit ratings in a matter of days and after securing these ratings we'll initiate the debt recapitalization process including CPG issuing its own long-term debt and a separate tender offer for NiSource debt.
On May 14 as I mentioned earlier NiSource and CPG will host separate webcast to outline a respective growth strategies and associated infrastructure investment opportunities.
In early June we anticipate that we'll confirm the distribution record date the effectiveness of the Form 10 and the so-called when issued trading period.
All of these would culminate with the planned distribution of shares on July 1 2015 and CPG trading on its own the following day.
We look forward to diving deeper into these dates and actions during our May 14 webcast.
With those highlights Steve will now briefly discuss Columbia Pipeline Partners' results.
Thanks again Bob.
As you know we successfully completed CPPO's IPO in February which raised approximately $1.2 billion.
And just yesterday we announced the prorated cash distribution of about $0.09 per unit to holders of record as of May 13.
This distribution corresponds to the minimum quarterly distribution of $16.75 per unit or $0.67 annually.
This morning we issued a news release highlighting CPPL's results for the post-IPO period.
As you know the key drivers for the period mirror the key drivers of NiSource and CPG business segment.
And our adjusted EBITDA's consistent with our expectations for the quarter.
These results are squarely on par with CPPI's strategy for delivering value to unit holders and remains consistence with our guidance for the year that was presented in our registration statement.
Bob? Thanks Steve and thank you all for participating today and for your ongoing interest in and support of NiSource and Columbia Pipeline Partners.
Today we're ready to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> How big was the gain last year on the mineral sale? This is Steve Paul.
It was approximately an aggregate $35 million or so.
Research Division</strong> That's pretax? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And this quarter we saw off -system sales and industrial decline.
I imagine the industrial is steel related what drove the off-systems sales decline? Yes it was approximately $10 million lower quarter-over-quarter.
And it's just lower opportunities to realize off-system sales.
I think industrials managed the winter months much better this quarter than they did last year at this time.
Paul this is Joe.
On the industrial side you're right some of it's steel but a lot that was related to last year's Polar Vortex and some self-generation of some of the industrial segment not running so a little more opportunity for us in that segment last year.
So you'll see some flattishness in the industrial sector but nothing as significant relative to plan.
Research Division</strong> Can we have a little more color on the new project in southwest PA that you highlighted? Not a lot more color on it.
It's a backbone-gathering system.
The need for the system is driven by the robust results of Utica drilling in that region.
It's going to be anchored by one key tenant but likely to have additional folks requiring capacity.
It could be as large as a bee a day.
So I think it's again just evidence that the gas is there the demand for capacity to get the gas out of the region is there.
So we're bullish.
Research Division</strong> Is this hundreds of millions of dollars of investment? Yes.
Yes and this is very much a zip code sort of range but $275 million to $300 million is the bracket we put on it at this point.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess for the past couple of years May has been the time period when you looked at dividend increases.
It's kind of we look for something in conjunction with your webcasts? We're certainly going to be providing detailed on our approach growth rates and the like on May 14.
So yes stay tuned.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So just on Mountaineer it just sounds like everything is going well.
And when will you be more specific on full kind of cost of project and it's definitely going forward? Yes.
We'll obviously provide additional details during the May 14 webcast.
We expect board outs to clear at the end of June.
So stay tuned shortly after June for much much more detail but certainly May 14 will be instructive.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Maybe -- and pardon if this needs to wait till May 14.
But one thing that you guys seem to be different than maybe many other peer companies is just the extent of organic growth off your system with a huge amount of projects it seems like you're doubling or tripling your size? Tripling the size.
LLC</strong> Tripling the size.
How are you thinking of kind of addressing that relative to thinking about peer groups of other pipelines? Yes.
On May 14 we're obviously going to draw the distinction in and around Columbia Pipeline Group.
And we will be referencing a group of peers and as you would expect they are the usual big players in the space but we'll certainly be making the point that -- who we think we comp against how we comp.
And so you'll see that complete profile in the 14th.
LLC</strong> And when you give visibility out because in theory if you're looking today you're a lot different today than you're going to be a few years from now.
So will you be able to give visibility out? Yes to that point expect long-term visibility as you're suggesting in your question much of this growth peaks in '17 '18 and then we see cash flowing '19 and '20.
So to appreciate the full CPG story you really need to look at the company and its performance over that longer period of time.
So clearly we expect to do that.
We will do that.
I think there will be plenty of granularity near term long term medium term so the folks are going to have a good basis to assess the company and its growth.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And just -- this might have been addressed but the appeal in Indiana on the monetization program just how does this kind of go from here after that court ruling and does it change anything that you're doing in the meantime? Steve this is Joe.
It doesn't change anything we're doing.
We remain committed to the investments and are working with the stakeholders as we always do to evaluate the options for moving forward but we see a number of potential options.
And we see this generally as a ruling that upholds the core of the statute in the quarter the framework and just asked the commission to take a look at the long-term plan details to reaffirm the plan ultimately.
So we see it as ultimately supportive and a temporary delay.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Chris Sighinolfi of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if this is a question for you or for Steve or for Joe.
But in terms of how we think about the debt recap.
I know if I look at the balance sheets you guys put out this morning and I think about what you've told us I think at the Analyst Day it was around a $3 billion debt recap.
I heard Steve correct it it's more like $2.75 billion now is that right? Yes.
It's really -- we're really honing in with a sharper pencil on what we need with respect to that debt offering.
And you'll recall in the IPO we were able to raise a bit more money in that transaction upwards of $1.2 billion.
So that helped us manage the size of the debt offering.
So it's $2.75 billion and that's going to be used largely for 2 things: to pay an intercompany dividend of around $1.5 billion to NiSource and then to pay off intercompany debt with NiSource in $1 billion range.
And NiSource is going to take that payment both the dividend and the repayment of intercompany debt and use that to execute a tender offer for approximately $750 million or so of NiSource's debt over the next 30 days or so.
So that's the high-level plan on the recapitalization front.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that -- Steve is that just driven by a sort of a targeted debt loan on a pro forma NiSource business as you see it in conversations with the rating agencies or what would sort of shape any deviation from that? Chris I don't see a lot of deviation in that calculus.
We've worked very diligently with the rating agencies as we always do on our long-term financial plans and feel that the size of this transaction adequately addresses; the balance sheets for both companies going forward and puts them in that solid investment-grade rating range going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I'm sure we'll have more detail on all fronts on the 14th.
So I'll hold a lot of my questions for that but I do just have one question with regard to the CPPL release this morning.
Is the maintenance CapEx number that was reported for the first quarter is that sort of pro forma for the time period in which CPPL was public or was that the full quarterly number? And if it was the fourth full quarterly number is there something -- I know you guys had guided I think 130 for the full year so it looks like it's sort of a slower pace.
Yes Chris Bob.
The 130 number for the year holds.
That's correct number.
What about the quarter? On the quarter well I think it's both the predecessor company and the post-IPO period.
So those 2 pieces are cut into 2.
We'll get you that exact number.
Yes we'll follow up with you Chris to confirm.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> We've heard a lot about reduced activity in the Bakken and in other regions.
What are you seeing in your territories? Widely publicized that the producers in our neck of the wood have dialed back drilling activity in 2015 and you'll see numbers of 30% 40% you'll see some folks that have held the line if not maybe increased marginally.
But we have seen what we consider to be prudent dialing back off of drilling.
Having said that Paul I think Mountaineer XPress Gulf Xpress that new midstream project that we announced today affirms that the producers continue to be very very bullish on the region and they still expect production increase year-over-year and certainly increase in '17 '18 '19 and the balance of the decade.
So prudent dialing back but still strong strong commitment to the Marcellus and Utica region.
Thank you.
At this time I'm showing no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Bob Skaggs for closing remarks.
Thanks so much.
And to everybody on the call again we appreciate your participation and your support.
And we certainly look forward to chatting with you on May 14 both at NiSource and Columbia Pipeline Group.
So thanks.
Have a good day.
We appreciate it.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the NiSource Q2 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference maybe recorded.
I would like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Randy Hulen Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you Michelle and good morning everyone.
Id like to welcome you to our NiSource quarterly investor call.
Joining me this morning is Joe Hamrock CEO; and Donald Brown CFO.
As you know the primary focus of today's call is to review NiSource's second quarter 2015 financial performance as well as provide an overall business update.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call to your questions.
At times during the call we will refer to supplemental slides available on our Web site.
Just a reminder on July 1 NiSource successfully completed the separation of Columbia Pipeline Group or CPG into an independent publicly traded company.
As a result NiSource no longer maintains any ownership interest in either CPG or Columbia Pipeline Partners.
However the financial information presented today does include CPGs segment results as it was part of NiSource through June 30.
I would note future NiSource financial results will report CPG as discontinued operations.
Therefore our business segment discussion today will focus solely on NiSource utilities.
As an independent company CPG is hosting its quarterly call later this morning at 10 AM Eastern.
And finally before I turn the call over to Joe Id like to remind everyone that some of the statements made on this call will be forward-looking.
And these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
Having covered all those reminders Id like to now turn the call over to Joe.
Thanks Randy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for this first NiSource call since the separation of CPG.
Today well briefly cover our second quarter results and earnings drivers before discussing execution highlights at our utilities.
And well close with an overview of our investment proposition and our future business plan as a premier pure-play utility company.
And well leave plenty of time for your questions.
Before we get into the details though let me just say how excited I am about the path ahead for NiSource.
Weve set a solid foundation for continued long-term growth and enhanced customer value guided by an experienced management team with a proven record of execution.
And its a privilege to represent our team today in sharing some of the highlights of our performance as well as our outlook for the future.
As Randy noted Ill be referencing a few slides in the supplemental deck that was posted online this morning.
First a few key takeaways for the quarter.
For the second quarter results were solidly in line with our plan.
The NiSource team delivered $0.18 per share non-GAAP in the recently completed quarter versus $0.25 per share in 2014.
Across the board we had continued solid execution of our infrastructure investments customer programs and regulatory initiatives.
As Randy mentioned we finalized the tax-free separation of CPG on July 1.
After the market closed on July 1 shareholders received one share of CPG common stock for each share of NiSource common stock.
Our commitments through the separation were met including disciplined cost effective execution our ongoing focus on customer service and our commitment to investment grade credit.
In fact following the separation our credit ratings at the three major agencies have either remained the same or improved.
Standard &amp; Poor's upgraded our credit rating to BBB plus from BBB minus.
Fitch Ratings revised its outlook to BBB minus with a positive outlook from BBB minus with a stable outlook.
And Moodys reaffirmed its rating of Baa2.
These ratings set a strong foundation for us as a pure-play utility with significant long-term infrastructure investment opportunities.
One of the key value drivers NiSource will continue to offer investors is a solid and growing dividend which we expect to increase by 4% to 6% annually.
We announced our first post separation quarterly dividend of $0.155 per share on July 2 which is consistent with the companys intention announced in May to increase the initial combined NiSource and CPG dividend by nearly 8%.
As we also announced in May we expect to deliver non-GAAP earnings per share of $1 to $1.10 in 2016 with planned infrastructure enhancement investments of approximately $1.4 billion.
Now let me turn the call over to Donald to review our second quarter financial results highlighted on Page 4 of our supplemental slides.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
As Joe mentioned we delivered non-GAAP net operating earnings of about $57 million or $0.18 per share which compares to about $78 million or $0.25 per share in the second quarter of 2014.
On an operating earnings basis NiSource was down about $7 million.
As a reminder these results include CPG reportable segment financials.
Two factors impacted our net operating earnings compared to 2014.
One was additional interest expense related to Columbia Pipeline Group long-term debt issuance prior to the separation.
The other was NiSources non-controlling interest in Columbia Pipeline Partners which was formed in February 2015.
Combined these items add up to nearly $0.06 for the quarter.
On a GAAP comparison our loss from continuing operations was about $36 million for the second quarter versus income of about $79 million for the same period in 2014.
This decrease was primarily as you would expect attributable to a loss on early extinguishment of long-term debt and separation costs.
At the segment level each of the three pre-separation business segments delivered financial results well in line with our expectations during the second quarter.
Full details of our results are available in our earnings release issued and posted online this morning.
Now turning to Slide 5 Id like to briefly touch on our debt and credit profile following the separation which as youll see is consistent with our May 14 webcast.
Following the recapitalization our total debt level was reduced to $6.7 billion with the weighted average maturity of approximately 14 years and average coupon of approximately 5.86%.
On the liquidity front our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility went into place at separation.
And as of July 1 we maintained net available liquidity of about $2 billion.
Our financial foundation for our continued growth as a pure-play utility is solid on track and consistent with our commitments.
Now Ill turn the call back to Joe to discuss a few customer infrastructure investment and regulatory highlights across our utilities.
Thanks Donald.
Our teams remain on track to invest approximately $1.3 billion during 2015 which is part of our $30 billion of long-term regulated utility infrastructure investment opportunities.
These investments further improve reliability and safety enhanced customer service and reduced emissions all while generating sustainable long-term growth.
Lets turn to a few highlights in our gas operations business segment on Slide 6.
Were continuing our disciplined execution on core infrastructure investment and modernization programs supported by complementary regulatory and customer initiatives.
In fact just last week Columbia Gas of Massachusetts reached a settlement in principle with the Massachusetts Attorney General in its base rate case.
The settlement agreement is expected to be finalized and filed for approval with the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities later this month.
The case as youll recall seeks to recover costs to support CMAs multiyear modernization plan to maintain the safety and reliability of natural gas service for customers.
Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania's base rate case is progressing on schedule.
The $46 million request supports continued investment in our well-established modernization programs that enhance safety and reliability.
A decision in that case is expected by the end of this year.
Turning to the pending base rate case at Columbia Gas of Virginia on June 30 the hearing examiner recommended specific fixed customer charges for each rate class addressing the final outstanding issue in the case.
The commission had previously found that the stipulated annual revenue increase of $25.2 million is reasonable.
A final order in the case is expected later this year.
And back to Massachusetts as an update to what we shared in our first quarter call we received Department of Public Utilities approval of the 2015 Gas System Enhancement Plan on April 30.
Cost recovery began on May 1 and is projected to increase annual revenues by approximately $2.6 million.
And at NIPSCO gas we continue executing on our seven-year natural gas system modernization program.
Our 2015 projects which include enhancement of existing infrastructure and extension of gas service to rural customers are well underway and we expect to file our program and tracker update by September 1.
Now lets turn to our electric operations on Slide 7.
On May 26 NIPSCO the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor and some of NIPSCOs largest industrial customers reached a settlement agreement resolving all concerns raised by the parties in an Indiana Court of Appeals proceeding surrounding the companys long-term Electric Infrastructure Modernization Plan.
As part of the agreement NIPSCO will file a base rate case followed by a new seven-year plan.
We expect to file the base rate case on or about October 1 of this year.
The FGD unit under construction at NIPSCOs Michigan City Generating facility is on schedule to be placed in service by the end of 2015.
Following the completion of the Michigan City unit and with those we placed in service over the past two years all of NIPSCOs coal-burning facilities will be fully scrubbed.
NIPSCOs two major electric transmission projects are also progressing as planned.
Right-of-way acquisition permitting and substation construction are underway for both projects.
Youll recall these projects involve an investment of about $500 million for NIPSCO and are anticipated to be in service by the end of 2018.
As you can see our teams continue to execute on a well-established infrastructure customer and regulatory plans.
Before turning to your questions Id like to reaffirm the value proposition that we believe differentiates NiSource.
Following the separation of CPG we are well aligned with our aspiration to be a premier regulated utility company.
Our plan represents a best-in-class risk adjusted total return proposition with $30 billion of long-term 100% regulated utility infrastructure investment opportunities significant scale across seven states transparent earnings drivers and constructive regulatory environments.
Were focused on leading in the areas that matter most in our industry those are enhancing value to our customers and community stewarding our assets to ensure safe reliable affordable and efficient service engaging and investing in the communities we serve and ensuring through disciplined execution that we deliver on our financial and other stakeholder commitments.
This transparent sustainable growth is expected to drive shareholder value.
As we first announced in May we expect to deliver non-GAAP earnings per share between $1 and $1.10 per share in 2016.
We expect our capital program will grow to about $1.4 billion annually starting next year.
And finally we expect to grow our non-GAAP EPS and our dividend by 4% to 6% per year.
Thank you all for participating today and for your ongoing interest in support of NiSource.
We look forward to sharing continued updates on our progress.
Now Michelle lets open the call to questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
How are you? Good morning Paul.
Im doing fine.
How are you? Good.
When do you expect Massachusetts rates to take effect? Is that calendar tolerated at all? The settlement details will be filed later this month and you could look for some potential changes in the timing of the rate implementation in that settlement but I dont want to get ahead of the actual settlement itself the filing of the settlement.
Understood.
And can you just share a little bit whats going on with electric road in Indiana how much of that was weather? NIPSCO industrial was down.
Is that all steel related? Yes we are certainly seeing the steel industry weather some very tough conditions relative to imports and that  on the industrial side in that particular zone were encouraged to see some sign of support from Washington related to the import issues although the recovery looks like it will be prolonged.
And on the other side of the coin we see economic development opportunities emerging which will provide a nice boost and hopefully a modest offset to the industrial decline in our territory over time.
But altogether the key point here is our outlook factors in those conditions and the effect of that downturn and we remain confident in our guidance for 2016.
And then maybe Im getting ahead of my skis here but can you talk about the Indiana rate case and your strategy there with regards to rate base? Is it a  I guess filed under fair value or historic rate base? Were working out the details of that filing as we speak Paul.
The key element for us is to reposition the modernization efforts allowing for the deferral of the tedious investments weve made in '14 and '15 rolling those into that rate case and then filing a new tedious plan afterwards.
And again well file that case around October 1.
Okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Im showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Joe Hamrock for any further remarks.
Thank you Michelle and thank you all for joining us this morning.
As you can see NiSource is very well positioned for execution as a premier pure-play utility.
Our regulatory efforts continue to play out across the stakes and were very encouraged by the opportunities we see in the future.
Until next time I look forward to talking to you then.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in todays conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the NiSource Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your first speaker for today Randy Hulen.
You have the floor sir.
Thank you Andrew and good morning.
On behalf of everyone at NiSource welcome to our quarterly analyst call.
Joining me on the call this morning is Joe Hamrock Chief Executive Officer and Donald Brown Chief Financial Officer.
As you know the focus of today's call is to review NiSource's financial performance for the third quarter of 2015 as well as to provide an overall business update on the utility operations and our growth drivers.
We will then open the call up to your questions.
As a reminder we will be referring to our supplemental slides that are available on the NiSource website.
Before getting into the key takeaways for the quarter I wanted to remind everyone that we successfully completed the separation of Columbia Pipeline Group July 1.
Results for CPG are now classified as discontinued operations.
And finally before turning the call over to Joe I'd like to remind all of you that some of the statements made on this call will be forward looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factors sections of our periodic SEC filings.
Having covered all those reminders I'd like to turn the call over to Joe.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Randy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll briefly cover our third quarter 2015 results and earnings drivers before discussing specific highlights for several of our utilities.
We'll close with the review of our investment proposition and long-range business plan.
And we'll leave plenty of time for your questions.
As you'll hear throughout today's call our results and our look ahead reinforced the strength of our 100% regulated utility business model.
During the quarter we continued our disciplined execution of infrastructure and environmental investments complemented by regulatory initiatives which are providing long-term safety reliability and environment benefits for our customers and the communities we are privileged to serve.
Let's first highlight a few key takeaways for the quarter on slide 3.
Our results were solidly in line with our expectations.
The NiSource team delivered net operating earnings of $0.06 per share in the recently completed quarter versus a loss of $0.03 per share in the same period in 2014.
In addition to the successful separation of Columbia Pipeline Group the NiSource team sustained execution of our well-established plan during the quarter.
For example on the regulatory front in Massachusetts we received a final order from the DPU approving our base rate case settlement.
The approved settlement supports our effort to modernize and replace aging pipeline infrastructure to ensure continued safe and reliable service.
In addition we reached a settlement agreement with parties in our Pennsylvania base rate case filed earlier this year and also received final commission approval of a settlement in our Virginia base rate case as well as approval of a five-year extension of our infrastructure modernization program in Virginia.
And in Indiana we filed our first electric base rate case in five years.
I'll provide additional details on these regulatory developments later in today's call.
On the capital investment front across all of our companies we remain on track with our planned total capital spend of approximately $1.3 billion in 2015.
Before turning the call over to Donald to highlight our financial results in more detail I want to reinforce our 2016 guidance and long-term outlook.
As previously announced we expect to deliver non-GAAP net earnings per share of $1 to $1.10 in 2016 with planned infrastructure enhancement investments of approximately $1.4 billion.
And in the years ahead we remain committed to our annual projected dividend and earnings growth range of 4% to 6%.
Now let me turn the call over to Donald to review our financial results in more detail which are highlighted on page 4 of our supplemental slides.
Chief Financial Officer &amp; Treasurer</strong> Good morning everyone.
As Joe mentioned we delivered non-GAAP net operating earnings of about $19 million or $0.06 per share which compares to a loss of about $9 million or $0.03 per share in the third quarter of 2014.
On an operating earnings basis NiSource was up about $31 million.
As a reminder these results no longer include the CPG reportable segment financials which are classified as discontinued operations.
The continued solid financial performance you see today is driven exclusively by our utility businesses.
On a GAAP comparison our income from continuing operations was about $15 million for the third quarter versus a loss of about $17 million for the same period in 2014.
Now let's take a closer look at the third quarter operating earnings performance at our two business segments.
Our Gas Distribution segment came in at about $22 million compared with $1 million for 2014.
Net revenues excluding the impact of trackers were up nearly $19 million primarily to increases in regulatory and service programs in Ohio Virginia and Pennsylvania.
Operating expenses excluding the impact of trackers decreased about $2 million.
Our Electric operations delivered nearly $102 million in operating earnings compared to about $90 million for the prior year period.
Net revenues excluding trackers were relatively flat due to increased infrastructure investment revenues offset by lower industrial load.
Operating expenses excluding the impact of trackers decreased by about $12 million primarily due to lower employee and administrative costs.
As Joe mentioned these results are solidly in line with our expectations.
Full details of our results are available in our earnings release issued and posted online this morning.
Now turning to slide 5 I'd like to briefly touch on our debt and credit profile.
Our debt level as of September 30 was about $6.7 billion with a weighted average maturity of approximately 14 years and an interest rate of 5.86%.
On the liquidity front our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility went into effect at separation.
And at the end of the third quarter we maintained net available liquidity of about $1.6 billion.
Our credit ratings at the three major agencies are solidly investment grade something we remain committed to as we continue to execute on our $30 billion in infrastructure investment opportunities.
As you can see the financial foundation for our continued growth as a pure play utility is strong on track and consistent with our investment proposition.
Now I'll turn the call back to Joe to discuss a few customer infrastructure and regulatory highlights across our utilities.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Donald.
As noted our teams remain on track with our utility investments.
These investments further improve reliability and safety enhance customer service and reduce emissions all while generating sustainable long-term shareholder value.
Let's turn to a few highlights from our Gas operations on slide 6.
As I mentioned at the start of the call in early October the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities approved the settlement that Columbia Gas of Massachusetts reached with parties in its 2015 base rate case.
Rates went into effect on November 1 and the approved settlement provides for an annual revenue increase of approximately $33 million with an additional $3.6 million annual increase expected in November 2016.
In August Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania reached a settlement in its base rate case pending before the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission.
The settlement provides for a $28 million increase in annual revenues and notably also includes mechanisms to support the expansion of natural gas service into unserved areas.
A commission decision is expected to authorize new rates by the end of this year.
Also in August Columbia Gas of Virginia received final approval of its 2014 base rate case.
The Virginia Commission reaffirmed the $25 million annual revenue increase that went into effect in October 2014.
The difference between the settled amount and as filed rates is now being refunded to customers following the final order.
The order supports continued capital investments by CVA to modernize its system and accommodate customer growth as well as initiatives to enhance safety and reliability.
More recently the Virginia Commission approved a five-year extension of our SAVE program with our proposed 20% increase in annual investments.
As a reminder the SAVE program is our infrastructure modernization plan in the state.
One item worth noting on CVAs modernization plan in the past few weeks the team completed all planned cast iron pipe replacement in the state.
At NIPSCO Gas we filed our semi-annual tracker update in August which provides support for the remaining five years of our seven-year $817 million natural gas system modernization program.
This program involves enhancing existing gas infrastructure and extending gas service to rural areas.
Before moving on from gas operations I'd like to say how encouraged we are by our strong performance across the board on the recent J.D.
Power natural gas customer satisfaction surveys.
In fact Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania is a J.D.
Power award winner for the second year in a row.
And Columbia Gas of Virginia was recognized as one of the most improved brands in the nation.
They also ranked as a top brand nationally in communications.
This strong performance is a demonstration that our ongoing infrastructure programs are designed to benefit customers and that our team of approximately 7 500 employees is focused on the right things and that's serving our customers safely and reliably each day.
Now let's turn to our Electric Operations on slide 7.
Consistent with the May 26 settlement NIPSCO reached with the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor and NIPSCO's largest industrial customers the company filed a base rate case on October 1 and is expected to file a new seven-year electric infrastructure modernization plan with the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission or IURC by early 2016.
NIPSCO's first electric rate case in five years seeks to recover the current costs of generating and distributing power plus ongoing investments which are delivering substantial benefits to customers including a 40% reduction in the duration of power outages.
The request also seeks to create a bill payment assistance program for low income electric customers during the summer cooling season.
A decision by the IURC is expected in the third quarter of 2016.
NIPSCO's flue gas desulfurization unit at its Michigan City generating facility is set to be placed in service by the end of the year on schedule and on budget.
The approximately $255 million project supported with cost recovery improves air quality and helps to ensure NIPSCO's generation fleet remains in compliance with current environmental regulations.
It also helps ensure that NIPSCO can continue offering low-cost reliable and efficient generating capacity for its customers.
Progress also continued on two major electric transmission projects designed to enhance region-wide system flexibility and reliability.
Right of way acquisition permitting and substation construction are underway for both projects.
These projects involve an investment of approximately $500 million for NIPSCO and are anticipated to be in service by the end of 2018.
We believe our investments are paying off for our customers in Northern Indiana and we saw evidence of that in the recent J.D.
Power residential electric customer survey.
NIPSCO's electric overall customer satisfaction index score increased 30 points over 2014 and was among the most improved electric utilities in the Midwest.
So as you can see our teams continue to execute on our well established infrastructure environmental customer and regulatory plans.
Before turning to your questions I'd like to reaffirm the value proposition that we believe differentiates NiSource.
Following the separation of Columbia Pipeline Group we are well aligned with our aspiration to be a premier regulated utility company.
Our plan represents a best-in-class risk-adjusted total return proposition with continued progress on our $30 billion of long-term 100% regulated utility infrastructure investment opportunities with significant scale across seven states transparent earnings drivers and constructive regulatory environments.
To that end we're focused on leading in the areas that matter most in our industry enhancing value to our customers and communities stewarding our assets to ensure safe reliable affordable and efficient service engaging and investing in the communities we serve and ensuring through disciplined execution that we deliver on our financial and other stakeholder commitments.
This transparent sustainable growth is expected to drive enhanced shareholder value well into the future.
Thank you all for participating today and for your ongoing interest in and support of NiSource.
We look forward to sharing continued updates on our progress.
Now let's open the call to questions.
Andrew? We'll begin with a first question from Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
How are you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> Fine thank you.
You had a pretty nice swing at the LDC operations.
I know it's on (16:46) new rates but was there any rate design in there and maybe more fixed cost recovery? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No nothing substantial in terms of the shift in the rate design on the LDC side of the business; just continued execution of the investment plan and regulatory cadence across really all of the states with the mix of base rate case outcomes and tracker mechanisms contributing to the revenue side of the equation.
And I would add disciplined expense control across the business as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And what are you seeing as far as demand from your steel customers and kind of what's the outlook there for the next 12 18 months? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah those are as you know very important customers to us a critical part of the Northwest Indiana economy.
And we've been very tuned in to the pressure they've been under from international trade and have seen signs of moderation in that this year but still a very flat load profile on the industrial particularly the steel side.
It's important to note that 2014 was a bit of an anomaly in terms of the load from that sector with them depending more on our generation than their own internal generation in that year due to weather conditions and operating conditions.
But nonetheless on a moderate to mid-term basis we're off by probably 7% or so on a year-to-date basis on the steel load in Northwest Indiana and we'd expect slow recovery slow and steady recovery.
The other side of that though Paul is we're seeing really strong signs of economic development in other parts of the Northwest Indiana economy that while not completely offsetting the steel issues certainly provides some stability for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you give us a sense of the difference in margin between selling to a steel customer and just selling on the open market? Chief Financial Officer &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Well the open market these days is pretty flat in the MISO region.
So in the short-term view I'd say that's not a very favorable equation in general.
But I couldn't give you offhand a difference in the margin between the two and it's certainly part of the electric rate case that's filed that's in front of us for next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Paul.
Have a good day.
Inc.</span></strong> You too.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi from Avon Capital.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Andy.
I may be the last one because I just dialed in.
So let's see.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
But just on the (19:35) you mentioned that last year was abnormally high.
Was that what like some co-gen units down or something like that or? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah that's exactly right.
Last winter was the harsh operating conditions in the weather.
Some of the industrials were not able to run internal generation so we served that load and that contributed to an uptick in the 2014 industrial load profile relative to what I would call normal in the prior couple of years.
So if you looked at 2015 over versus maybe a three to five year strip of the prior of years it's pretty consistent with the prior years in general but off of 2014 because of that.
So really I guess for that sensitivity what you're saying is go back to 2013? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah that's a good probably a good representative indicator of what we might see in a quote/unquote normal year.
So on a  again I won't hold you to the exact number but maybe you can give us a ballpark.
On normalized basis any idea where you think industrial sales are down because of steel or just in general? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I'd call it relatively flat on a normalized basis right now and the outlook will be continued relatively flat load from that sector.
Okay that's good to hear.
And then as far as so when you file this rate case in Indiana I guess there won't be any reason to incorporate in your rate case a lower sales level for industrial or will that be a component of it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's always a part of any rate case and just in terms of revenue allocation across different customer groups.
Keep in mind the test year goes through end of March of this year 2015 so that's the load profile.
That's the starting point for the rate case and reflects a little bit of that but doesn't give you a full picture of the outlook for industrial.
So you'll see a little bit of that in the rate case.
A little bit of adjustment for that.
Okay.
And then my last question is obviously since your last call there have been two acquisitions within the sector that had some unbelievable premiums paid which was what your stock  basically if you kind of took the PE ratio it was almost double so maybe not quite.
But the point being is just what are your thoughts on that and does that change the dynamics of your thinking going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah yeah.
I haven't seen anything that would double but that would be interesting.
I won't speculate on M&amp;A Andy.
Certainly we're watching with interest the recent announcements in our space.
But we remain very focused on our plan which delivers sustained growth through the clearly identified $30 billion of regulated infrastructure investments.
And as you know that's well supported by our stakeholders.
And we're well capitalized with significant scale to continue to execute on that.
So that's what we're focused on and we'll remain focused on that.
Okay and one more question.
Just you had thrown out a growth rate  or earnings estimates I should say and a growth rate when you came off the spin.
Any way to categorize kind of how you're doing relative to plan just specifically on the rate cases? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I'd say we're on plan as we speak as we look at the 2015 performance year to date.
We're on plan.
Lots of puts and takes within the plan but certainly right about where we would expect to be.
Our outlook remains confident around the range we've provided for next year as well as the long-term growth rate of 4% to 6% EPS and dividend growth.
Thank you very much.
Thank you guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Charles.
I realize you're not giving any CapEx forecast beyond 2016 but just in sort of a big picture look  electric you got Schahfer Michigan City will be winding down if not done by 2017.
Will the modernization plan you think kick off by then that you'll still maintain a CapEx spend on the electric side of about $400 million plus per year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Charles that's a good way to describe it.
We've always portrayed the electric (24:32) ramping up over time.
In the original filing the original plan that's what it reflected.
As you know we'll file a new plan starting with 2016 investments by the beginning of next year.
And you would expect to see that same kind of a ramp rate in that plan as we go forward.
We remain very committed to those investments.
We think they're essential.
And it will basically fill in if you think about NIPSCO's total CapEx profile it will basically fill in over time as the generation investments ramp down and ramp off.
Yeah and is that your plan to give like a two-year forecast going out on CapEx so you'll roll this sometime next year or early next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we haven't stated that.
We haven't indicated that we've put a specific two-year plan in place.
But I would say the $1.4 billion that we've committed to for 2016 is a good indicator of where we expect to be over the long run with a modest general upward bias to that number.
And just I just opened my model and I have rate base growth of around 8% on the Electric side but I think that's pre-separation.
Is that still a decent number or close number? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Or do you update that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In general  you said on the electric side.
In general across NiSource we're going to run 6% to 8% rate base growth over the long run.
And that'll move a little bit between Electric and Gas.
But it's a good range for both segments.
Okay.
I tell you what I got a couple more but I'll save them for EEI.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Look forward to seeing you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman from Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Yeah hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Steve.
Hi.
So just on the guidance for 2016 just any color where you think you might be tracking within that range looking ahead? And just I guess the industrial  Indiana maybe a little pressure.
The gas utility is doing really well.
Just maybe any high level thoughts on how you're tracking for looking into next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah that's a fair question.
We're not yet ready to narrow or revise guidance for next year.
So certainly not in that position yet.
And I think you've fairly characterized some of the major drivers.
If you look at really any given year in our planning horizon regulatory outcomes are the likely swing factors within the guidance.
And so as we look at the electric case at NIPSCO certainly one of the factors that could move the needle a bit within guidance.
But we're confident in that range and very confident in the kind of the middle of that range.
Okay.
And then going forward I'm just curious will you continue to give kind of a one-year forward or two-year forward guidance or it was just kind of because it was the first year of the breakup i.e.
in early 2016 are you going to give a view for 2017 as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We have not decided that yet.
We certainly guided early for 2016 because of the separation and we thought it was appropriate to come out as we separated NiSource and CPG for both sides to give a good look at the first full year of operations.
Whether we'll look that far out in the future is yet to be determined.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
I'm not seeing any other questioners in the queue at this time so I'd like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> All right Andrew thank you very much.
And thank you all again for participating today and for your ongoing interest in NiSource.
We certainly look forward to sharing continued updates on our progress and meeting with you many of you at EEI next week.
So have a great day.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you again for your participation in today's conference.
This now concludes the program and you may all disconnect your telephone lines at this time.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 NiSource's Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Randy Hulen Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kat and good morning everybody.
On behalf of NiSource welcome to our quarterly investor call.
Joining me this morning are Joe Hamrock our Chief Executive Officer and Donald Brown our Chief Financial Officer.
As you know the purpose of today's call is to review the NiSource's financial performance for 2015 as well as provide a business update covering our utility operations and growth drivers.
We'll then open the call to your questions.
As a reminder we will be referring to supplemental slides that are available on the NiSource website.
Before moving on to our highlights for the quarter and the year I would just remind everyone that we successfully completed the separation of Columbia Pipeline Group on July 1 2015.
Therefore the results for CPG are contained in discontinued operations.
And finally one last reminder some of the statements made on this call will be forward-looking.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements.
Information concerning such risks and uncertainties is included in the MD&amp;A and Risk Factor sections of our periodic SEC filings.
With all that covered I'd like to turn the call over to Joe.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Randy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
2015 was a dynamic year of progress for NiSource.
Our teams executed on our customer focused investment driven utility business plan while successfully completing the Columbia Pipeline Group separation.
We finished 2015 building on the momentum we've gained in the past few years with an eye toward continued growth and enhanced performance in 2016 and beyond.
Let's take a look at slide three of the supplemental deck to walk through some of the significant milestones NiSource achieved in 2015.
The NiSource team delivered strong financial results in line with expectations with net operating earnings non-GAAP of $0.94 per share compared to $0.81 per share in 2014.
We invested a record $1.37 billion in our utility infrastructure across our seven states.
As part of that investment we replaced 361 miles of priority pipe including the last known cast iron pipe throughout the Columbia Gas of Virginia system.
All of NiSource's utility investments are focused on serving our customers enhancing safety and service reliability and reducing environmental impact.
We reached a significant milestone during the year by completing the last of three flue gas desulfurization or FGD units at NIPSCO's coal generation facility.
This is the culmination of approximately $850 million in investments over five years all completed on schedule and on budget that will help improve air quality and ensure that NIPSCO's generation fleet remains in compliance with current environmental regulations.
Also in 2015 we completed the full deployment of automated meter reading devices across our nearly four million electric and natural gas customers.
A six-year project this new meter technology enhances customer service and safety while reducing costs.
We also continued our electric transmission and distribution modernization program investing about $65 million to improve service reliability and system performance.
NiSource has now executed against more than $2 billion of our identified $30 billion in long-term regulated utility infrastructure investments since outlining these programs in 2014.
In addition to these significant infrastructure investment milestones the NiSource team completed several significant regulatory initiatives which support safety reliability employee training and customer programs.
These milestones include successful rate case settlements in Massachusetts Pennsylvania and Virginia; the extension of Columbia Gas of Virginia's system modernization program; approval of the first year of Columbia Gas of Massachusetts' gas system enhancement plan and continued execution of Columbia Gas of Ohio's modernization program along with new pipeline safety programs implemented in 2015.
We also had a strong performance in J.D.
Power's residential natural gas customer satisfaction survey with Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania an award winner for the second straight year and Columbia Gas of Virginia recognized as one of the nation's most improved brands.
Across NiSource we are sharpening our focus on service to our customers and communities and these results reflect those commitments.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Donald to review our financial results in more detail which are highlighted on page four of our supplemental slides.
Donald? Chief Financial Officer &amp; Treasurer</strong> Good morning everyone.
As a reminder these results no longer include CPG reportable segment financials which are classified as discontinued operations.
The financial progress we're reporting today for 2015 was driven exclusively by our regulated utility businesses.
As Joe mentioned we delivered non-GAAP net operating earnings of about $299 million or $0.94 per share in 2015 compared with about $256 million or $0.81 per share in 2014.
On an operating earnings basis NiSource reported $832 million for 2015 which is an increase of about $54 million over 2014.
Taking a closer look at the annual operating earnings performance of our two utility business segments our Gas Distribution segment delivered about $568 million compared with about $517 million in 2014.
Net revenue excluding the impact of trackers were up by more than $105 million primarily due to the impact of new rates in Massachusetts Pennsylvania and Virginia and implementation of rates under our approved infrastructure replacement programs in a number of states.
Operating expenses including the impact of trackers increased by about $55 million mainly due to higher employee and administrative costs as well as increased depreciation and property taxes as a result of higher capital investments.
Our Electric Operations segment reported about $280 million compared to about $288 million in 2014.
Net revenues excluding the impact of trackers were relatively flat.
Operating expenses again excluding trackers increased by about $10 million primarily due increased depreciation driven by higher capital investments.
As Joe mentioned our 2015 results are well in line with our expectations.
Full details of our results including details of our fourth quarter performance are available in our earnings release issued and posted online this morning.
Now turning to slide five I'd like to briefly touch on our debt and credit profile.
Our debt level as of December 31 was about $6.9 billion with a weighted average maturity on long-term debt of approximately 14 years and an interest rate of approximately 5.88%.
On the liquidity front at the end of the fourth quarter we maintained net available liquidity of about $1.2 billion.
And our credit ratings at the three major agencies remain solidly investment grade something we remain committed to as we continue to execute on our $30 billion and 100% regulated infrastructure investment opportunities.
Going forward our financial foundation is strong and poised for continued growth and execution.
I'd also note that the recent extension of bonus depreciation has no impact on our 2016 earnings guidance or long-term growth commitments.
Consistent with what we've shared previously we expect to deliver non-GAAP net operating earnings per share of $1.00 to $1.10 in 2016.
And in the years ahead we continue to expect annual dividend and earnings growth of 4% to 6%.
Now I'll turn the call back to Joe to discuss a few customer infrastructure and regulatory highlights across our utilities.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Donald.
As we emerged from the separation of CPG last year we sharpened our focus on our customers and communities all of whom we're privileged to serve.
Earlier in the call I mentioned that Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania and Columbia Gas of Virginia were recognized for customer satisfaction by J.D.
Power.
In fact I'm proud to say J.D.
Power scores improved at all NiSource utilities in 2015 compared to the prior year.
We were recognized in other areas as well including being named for the second consecutive year to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index illustrating our deep commitment to serving customers employees and other stakeholders in a way that balances immediate and long-term benefits.
And NiSource was named one of the world's most ethical companies by the Ethisphere Institute for the fourth straight year.
Let's turn to a few recent highlights in our gas operations on slide six.
We continue to focus on timely recovery of our customer-focused infrastructure investments and we continued to make progress on that front in the fourth quarter.
At NIPSCO Gas the team continues to execute on our seven year $817 million natural gas system modernization program.
We filed our semi-annual tracker and program update in August of last year and expect a commission order in the first quarter of this year.
This program involves enhancing existing gas infrastructure and extending gas service to rural areas.
In December Columbia Gas of Pennsylvania received commission approval of a settlement in its base rate case.
The settlement maintains the company's ability to continue replacing and upgrading its natural gas distribution system.
New rates went into effect on December 18 and will increase annual revenues by approximately $28 million.
The settlement also included new incentives that will significantly reduce initial costs for customers converting to natural gas.
On November 1 Columbia Gas of Massachusetts implemented new rates under its previously approved base rate case settlement.
The settlement supports CMA's continued effort to modernize its pipeline infrastructure and transform its operations to continue to serve customers safely and reliably.
The approved settlement provides for increased annual revenues of $32.8 million with an additional $3.6 million annual increase starting on November 1 of this year.
Across our gas utilities we invested over $900 million in 2015 and expect to invest more than $950 million this year.
Now let's turn to our Electric Operations on slide seven.
On December 16 the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission or IURC approved a settlement between NIPSCO the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor and NIPSCO's largest industrial customers which resolved all outstanding issues raised by parties in an Indiana Court of Appeals proceeding related to the company's previous long-term electric infrastructure modernization plan.
Following that development NIPSCO on December 31 filed a new $1.3 billion seven-year electric infrastructure modernization plan with the IURC.
The plan is focused on electric transmission and distribution investments made for safety reliability and system modernization.
NIPSCO expects an order on its seven-year plan by the third quarter of 2016.
Progress also continued to two major electric transmission projects designed to enhance region wide system flexibility and reliability.
Right-of-way acquisition permitting and substation construction are underway for both projects.
Line and tower construction is expected to begin in 2016.
These projects involve an investment of approximately $450 million for NIPSCO and are anticipated to be in service by the end of 2018.
NIPSCO remains on schedule with its electric base rate case filed in October with the IURC.
The case seeks to update rates to reflect the current costs of generating and distributing power plus ongoing investments which are delivering substantial benefits to customers including programs that have reduced the duration of power outages by 40%.
We have worked with our customers and other stakeholders to seek a balanced solution that recognizes the importance and value of reliable and affordable energy for all customers particularly the energy intensive steel and industrial sectors in Northwest Indiana.
The Indiana team has made progress with settlement discussions with the possibility of reaching a final settlement as early as tomorrow in order to meet the procedural deadline.
As you would expect we are in sensitive discussions at this point and I will not be able to provide any details beyond what I've noted.
We invested about $400 million in our electric business in 2015 and expect to invest more than $400 million in 2016.
We took positive steps to position the business for future investment driven growth that will create value for NIPSCO customers northern Indiana communities and our shareholders.
Before turning to your questions I would like to reinforce NiSource's investment proposition and our 2016 guidance.
As Donald already highlighted we continue to expect to deliver non-GAAP net operating earnings per share of a $1.0 to a $1.10 in 2016 with approximately $1.4 billion in infrastructure enhancements planned during the year.
Our well-established utility investment programs continued to produce high value for our customers and investors in 2015.
As we begin our first full year as a pure play utility company we are sharpening our focus on leadership and safety and customer satisfaction to unlock the full potential of our plan.
Thank you all for participating today and for your ongoing interest and support of NiSource.
We look forward to sharing continued updates on our progress.
Now let's open the call to your questions.
Kat? And our first question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Charles.
On the  you made the statement Joe.
All right it was you that the bonus depreciation has no impact on earnings.
But with bonus deprecation does that get you to the higher end maybe of your dividend growth with the extra  little bit of extra cash flow? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Charles that was Donald who made that statement.
And we haven't decided or made any move in terms of dividend outlook we continue to guide 4% to 6% earnings per share and dividend growth based on the plan that we have.
I'll ask Donald to maybe add a little bit more insight about the effect of bonus depreciation on our plan and the optionality that it creates for us.
Chief Financial Officer &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think we've talked about bonus depreciation and our tax position in the past.
Previously to this extension of bonus depreciation we had NOLs that were going to last until mid-2018.
With this extension it actually pushes our NOLs to 2020 so it's probably 2021 where we're a net tax payer.
And while this has a negative impact on rate base it does give us that cash at the kind of tailwind of our planning horizon to give us cash that we can spend a little bit more on CapEx in the early years a nominal amount to offset that negative impact on rate base and by the end of the planning horizon actually be a net cash flow positive.
So it keeps our earnings guidance and dividend guidance in line and on the back end of our planning horizon gives us some incremental cash and provides some flexibility in our liquidity.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
That was the only question I had.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Charles.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Barry Klein with Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Barry.
Good morning.
Can you provide some guidance on rate base growth and any equity needs over the next few years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
No near-term outlook for equity needs.
Rate base growth continues to run at a high single-digit percentage clip for us based on our $1.4 billion of CapEx this year and a fairly consistent outlook beyond that.
And then as we had noted even back at the time of separation the 4% to 6% EPS growth over the long-term does factor in the eventual need for equity but it's not in the near-term of the plan and nor do we expect that to change.
Okay.
So that's how you reconcile without any equity high single-digit rate base growth because it's more longer term equity needs is that how I should think about it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's part of it.
There are a number of other factors.
Regulatory lag continued steps through the regulatory process some O&amp;M growth as well.
But yeah that's a fair statement.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Joe and Donald.
How are you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Doing well.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you just give a sense of what's happening in the steel sector in Indiana and  basically what you're seeing there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
We've obviously paid close attention to what's happening in the steel sector a very key part of our industrial customer base and a key part of the fabric of the economy in northwest Indiana.
What we believe we're seeing is sort of a leveling off at a capacity that's reflective of what you see across the nation in the probably 70% range.
Our load for last year reflects that kind of a usage pattern.
And frankly if you took out 2014 industrial sales for NIPSCO electric you'd see 2015 fairly representative of the prior number of years.
So a flat load profile in terms of the outlook for NIPSCO electric.
And we continue to see that  sort of lower level of production but fairly stable is the way we look at it right now.
Inc.</span></strong> As you talk to your steel customers any light at the end of the tunnel or just too early? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's too early to say that.
Better to let them speak to that.
But certainly as I noted earlier a key part of our focus in wanting to find balanced solutions that help make sure that those customers  we're doing our part to ensure the viability of that part of the economy in northwest Indiana.
Inc.</span></strong> And then I got distracted on something else but you said you're looking for a potential NIPSCO settlement as early as tomorrow? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I did say that.
Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's something that we're optimistic about making progress on.
I can't say much more about it but given the procedural schedule we're hoping for the opportunity to do something on that front in the next day or two next business day or two.
Inc.</span></strong> Given your upbeat tone on that maybe I can congratulate you early on getting there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You could be the first then.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Take care guys.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Orrill with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes thank you.
I was wondering if you could comment on kind of what takes you within the 4% to 6% earnings growth.
What swings you from  what are the swing factors within the range? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah sure.
Good morning Greg.
When you look at the profile of our seven companies the ongoing investment levels and regulatory mechanisms combination of rate cases and trackers in any given year the range of potential regulatory outcomes is probably the biggest single factor that could move our earnings outlook within that range and that's a well-diversified mix of regulatory mechanisms.
Each state has either a rate case as in Pennsylvania's fully forecasted rate year mechanism or a tracker mechanism that are already well established.
So we tend to have a fairly confident outlook within the range but nonetheless can see a number of things that could change in any given year relative to the mix of regulatory outcomes.
Beyond that I would say there is O&amp;M  O&amp;M variability could be storm-related could be operationally related in any given year by far the largest factor is going to be regulatory.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Joe Hamrock Chief Executive Officer for any closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kat.
And thank you again for joining us this morning.
We certainly appreciate your ongoing interest and support in the NiSource's story and look forward to providing additional updates in the not-too-distant future.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.