Good day and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Northrop Grumman Earnings Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the presentation over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Paul Gregory.
Sir you may proceed.
Great thank you Candace.
Good morning and welcome to Northrop Grumman's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
We've provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings and may cause actual company results to differ materially.
During today's call we'll discuss first quarter 2011 results and our 2011 guidance for continuing operations.
Our first quarter results and our 2011 guidance reflect the spin-off of our Shipbuilding business Huntington Ingalls Industries on March 31.
Shipbuilding results for the first quarter are reported as discontinued operations in the press release and this quarter's 10-Q filing.
Our results for discontinued operations may not reflect Huntington Ingalls' results of operations or financial condition as an independent publicly owned company.
On the call today are our CEO and President Wes Bush; and our Chief Financial Officer Jim Palmer.
At this point please go to Slide 3 and I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Paul.
So good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
On today's call we'll discuss first quarter highlights and our outlook for the rest of the year.
First quarter financial results were strong and we're off to a solid start for the year.
We completed the spin-off of Huntington Ingalls Industries to Northrop Grumman's shareholders on March 31.
Our shareholders received 1 share of HII for every 6 years in Northrop Grumman.
Along with providing greater investor choice we believe that the separation of the businesses supports value creation for the shareholders customers and employees of both companies.
Today we also announced that we are raising our dividend and increasing our outstanding share repurchase authorization to $4 billion which includes committing the $1.4 billion spin-off contribution to share repurchases.
This approach means that the full value of the Shipbuilding business will be transferred to our shareholders.
I want to acknowledge the hard work of everyone involved in successfully executing the spin-off.
I also want to thank Mike Petters the CEO of Huntington Ingalls and his team for their contributions to Northrop Grumman.
And finally I'd like to thank the Navy for their constructive engagement throughout the spin-off process.
Northrop Grumman is now much more sharply focused on our core markets.
Integrated C4ISR Cybersecurity Unmanned Systems and Logistics.
Our 4 sectors are well-positioned and have tremendous opportunities for collaboration synergy.
As a management team we are looking forward to maximizing our opportunities in these markets.
While we believe the company's portfolio is well aligned with our customers' priorities we always look for opportunities to improve performance and alignment including continued portfolio shaping.
As a management team we are also focused on improving our execution and cost competitiveness while maintaining flexibility in a rapidly changing environment.
Our priority is to position Northrop Grumman for success in an increasingly competitive environment.
Turning to financial highlights for the quarter on Slide 4.
Earnings per share from continuing operations rose 25% to $1.67.
On a consolidated basis our segment operating margin rate expanded by 50 basis points.
Our leadership team continues to focus on sustaining and building on the substantial performance improvement we achieved in 2010.
All 4 sectors delivered higher operating income and each of the sectors is building a track record of consistent execution.
Operating income increased 19% reflecting higher pension income stronger segment operating income and lower corporate expenses.
Our year-over-year sales variance was primarily driven by the decision to reduce our participation in the Nevada National Security Site joint venture.
Excluding this change first quarter sales would've been relatively comparable to last year.
So our top line has been fairly resilient despite operating under the continuing resolutions for the last 6 months.
Our experience is that the series of CRs held up new contracts and also negatively influenced customer willingness to spend on some existing contracts and programs in order to preserve funds should the CR have continued.
Sales for Aerospace Systems were slightly higher in the quarter due to increased volume from manned aircraft Unmanned Systems and restricted programs which more than offset declines in civil space programs.
Aerospace Systems ended the quarter with a $20 billion backlog and continues to have several large pending awards including LRIP 4 [low-rate initial production Lot 4] for the F-35 and the latest multiyear for the F/A-18.
Sales for Electronic Systems and Information Systems our shorter cycle businesses were more impacted by acquisition delays caused by domestic and international budget uncertainties.
And at Technical Services the sales decline was solely the result of our strategic decision to reduce our participation in the Nevada National Security Site joint venture.
That decision also reduced our backlog by $1.7 billion.
At the end of the quarter total backlog adjusted for the HII spin-off was $43.7 billion.
New business awards for the quarter totaled $5.3 billion and at the end of the quarter total backlog represented about 1.6x sales.
While budget uncertainty is a reality and reductions to certain programs are likely inevitable we believe we will continue to see strong demand in our core integrated C4ISR [command control communications and computers and intelligence reconnaissance and surveillance systems] Unmanned Systems Cybersecurity and Logistics markets.
Given the challenges of a regular warfare and other emerging threats investments and persistence awareness through integrated C4ISR systems are essential to global security.
We have a strong broad foundation of capabilities and mission expertise in C4ISR and we continue to work with our customers to expand our C4ISR capabilities.
In particular we're developing advanced multifunction sensors and network capabilities with open system architectures to meet emerging customer information needs.
We're also developing new concepts for more agile and persistent ISR [intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance] capabilities which integrate airborne and space platforms using a balanced mix of manned and unmanned systems that can address a broad range of security challenges.
Examples in this area are our BACN [Battlefield Airborne Communications Node] system LEMV [Long Endurance Multi-Intelligence Vehicle] and the migration of our flexible unmanned architecture model to additional platforms such as the Bell 407 helicopter.
We also believe that investment in Unmanned Systems will be a priority both domestically and internationally.
As Global Hawk continues to demonstrate its robust C4ISR capabilities across a multitude of military and nonmilitary global missions ranging from monitoring developments in the Middle East to gathering information on the aftermath of the earthquake in Japan we are seeing increased international interest in this versatile platform.
Development of BAMS [Broad Area Maritime Surveillance] its maritime derivative is proceeding well and we would expect this platform to demonstrate a similar level of mission versatility.
And we continue to extend our technological leadership and broaden the capabilities and missions of our Unmanned Systems with the development of platforms ranging from the fixed wing UCAS-D [Unmanned Combat Air System Demonstration] to rotary-wing platforms like Fire Scout and Fire-X.
We continue to invest in and capture Cybersecurity work and we are currently providing advanced cybersecurity technology to the defense and intelligence communities.
Our acquisition of Essex several years ago brought unique capabilities and customer intimacy that successfully supported our growth in this area.
We expect the demand for advanced Cybersecurity solutions to continue to expand.
This growth will be driven by investment in unique Cybersecurity opportunities as well as the broader recognition of the need to embed Cybersecurity in our critical systems.
We believe we are also well-positioned in Logistics where we expect continued growth in the maintenance repair and overhaul or MRO market as pressure on the investment accounts drives the need for service life extension of existing platforms.
We are a major player in this area currently providing MRO services for the B-2 Joint STARS KC-10 U.K.
AWACS A-10 and the C-20.
And this month our Lake Charles Maintenance and Modification Center was selected the 2011 MRO Facility of the Year in the military MRO category by Aviation Week and Overhaul &amp; Maintenance magazines.
The Lake Charles Maintenance and Modification Center provides maintenance repair and overhaul support to platforms such as Joint STARS and KC-10.
Our portfolio is also well-aligned with longer-term opportunities including the long-range strike initiative and emerging directed energy and non-kinetic products and systems.
We have a number of activities underway to position Northrop to compete successfully for the long-range strike initiative.
And our solid-state directed energy laser demonstrated its capability in a Navy exercise in which a small moving vessel was successfully targeted and disabled.
We believe that our capabilities and technologies are vital to global and national security and that the need for our products and services will continue.
Our actions on the dividend and share repurchase authorization demonstrate the confidence we have on our portfolio our ability to execute and our outlook for continued strong cash generation.
After the spin-off with the Shipbuilding business which represented approximately 20% of our annual sales we are not only maintaining our quarterly dividend but increasing it by more than 6% to $0.50 per share or $2 per share on an annualized basis.
Looking ahead based on this quarter's performance we now expect earnings per share from continuing operations to range between $6.50 and $6.70.
In closing I would reiterate that we continue to position the company for an increasingly competitive and challenging environment.
Deficit reduction is becoming a higher priority for our national leadership as deficit and debt levels are widely expected to be unsustainable.
It's likely that there will be a significant amount of debate in the coming months regarding deficit reduction and defense spending.
Our challenge is to continue to anticipate the needs of our customers and aggressively address our cost structure operational execution and productivity.
As I've said before ours is not a top line story.
We believe that we can continue to create value for our shareholders even in an environment of constrained top line growth by focusing on our key priorities: building on our performance improvements optimizing our portfolio and effectively deploying our cash.
We're off to a very good start to the year with our first quarter results.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My comments will begin on Slide 5 where I'll provide a little bit more color on our first quarter results which as Wes said is a great start to the year.
Highlights for the quarter were the higher segment operating income and a 10.7% segment operating margin rate improved total operating income and margin rate due to higher pension income and lower corporate unallocated expense.
A 25% in earnings per share driven by the higher segment operating income and pension income with lower corporate unallocated and interest expense.
Our higher tax rate for the quarter was offset by the impact of this quarter's lower share count.
Moving to the segments.
Aerospace Systems had a solid quarter with a 1% sales growth and a 2% increase in operating income.
Margin rate for the quarter was unchanged at 11% and in line with our guidance for the year.
Higher sales for the quarter reflected higher volumes for manned programs including an additional F-18 delivery as well as higher volumes for unmanned systems and restricted programs.
The increase in operating income is consistent with the higher volume for the quarter.
For the year we continue to expect relatively stable Aerospace revenue characterized by volume increases for manned unmanned and restricted programs which will be offset by lower volume for civil space programs.
In particular as work on MPOS transitions to the new Defense Weather Satellite System we expect a decline in civil space sales.
For example in the first quarter volume for MPOS declined by about $80 million on a year-over-year basis.
In Electronics sales declined by 4% for the quarter and as we mentioned in last quarter's call we expected ES [Electronic Systems] to have a slower start in the first half of the year due to lower ID/IQ deliveries for LAIRCM [Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures] and the vehicle intercommunication systems or VIS as well as some delays that we experienced last year in international programs.
Despite the lower sales volume operating income increased 5% and margin rate expanded 110 basis points to 13.1%.
The strength in operating income reflects improved performance for Land &amp; Self Protection Systems and the Postal Automation Program.
For the year we expect ES revenues to be relatively stable but we may experience some softness in -- if delays in international awards and acquisition delays continue.
We continue to expect an operating margin rate of approximately 13% in this business.
Information Systems also generated strong operating income from the quarter despite slightly lower sales.
Sales volume reflects a restricted programs transition from development to maintenance and lower volume for the counter-narcoterrorism ID/IQ program as well as an impact from the continuing resolution.
Operating income increased 6% for the quarter and margin rate expanded 70 basis points to 9.6%.
Improved program performance more than offset the decline in volume.
For the year we continue expect low single-digit revenue growth with a margin rate of approximately 9% in this business.
Similar to Electronic Systems we could experience some softness relative to our sales guidance depending on the timing of new awards and the continued budget uncertainty.
Moving on to Technical Services.
First quarter sales declined by 10% with the single biggest factor contributing to that decline being our reduced participation in the Nevada National Security Site joint venture.
As I think you know effective January 1 we no longer consolidate revenue for this joint venture which had sales of $136 million in last year's first quarter.
Higher sales for the KC-10 program which began in earnest last February partially offset the impact of the joint venture.
TS [Technical Services] operating income increased 10% and margin rate increased 140 basis points.
Higher operating income reflects improved program performance with the margin rate expansion for the quarter primarily due to the change in the joint venture revenue recognition.
We continue to expect sales of about $2.5 billion for TS which reflects that reduced participation in the joint venture and contemplates the phaseout of some business lines that are not meeting our return expectations.
And we continue to expect a margin rate in TS to improve to approximately 8%.
On a consolidated basis we expect a total operating margin rate of approximately 11% for the year and we continue to expect a net pension adjustment of about $355 million or so for the year.
So the major drivers of this quarter's earnings per share growth were the improved pension cost higher segment operating income lower corporate unallocated expenses and lower interest expense were also important contributors to earnings per share growth with a lower share count offset by a higher effective tax rate.
Turning to cash.
As expected cash from operations and free cash flow were seasonably low but much better than last year's first quarter results.
Cash from continuing operations was $112 million and free cash flow which was an outflow of $11 million after capital expenditures and related outsourcing contract and software cost.
Both cash from operations and free cash flow were stronger this year with the improvement principally driven by the more positive working capital trends.
And as we've said during last quarter call we expect cash to again be heavily weighted towards the second half of this year.
At the end of the quarter our cash balance was just over $4 billion reflecting the $1.4 billion contribution from HII and our strong cash generation at the end of 2010.
Out of abundance of caution related to the disclosure process surrounding the spin-off as well as the likely reduction in our stock price after the spin-off we took a pause in our share repurchase program in the first quarter.
But with the increase in our authorization we will resume our share repurchases.
So looking ahead I expect that we will have a significant drawdown of cash in the coming months.
Along with the share repurchases we have 2 tax payments that we need to make in the second half -- or second quarter rather that total approximately $500 million.
And as I said before we anticipate making a discretionary pension contribution in this quarter second quarter that will total approximately another $500 million.
So in conclusion good first quarter.
Those results demonstrate positive trend in operations improved pension expense and the optimization of our portfolio.
We remain focused on generating shareholder value through performance improvements optimization of our portfolio and effective cash deployment.
And Paul with that I think we're ready to turn it over for some questions.
Great thank you Jim.
Candace I think we're ready to go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Robert Spingarn of Crédit Suisse.
High-level question Wes you've been probably one of the earliest to recognize the pressure in DC and fairly responsive to that I would say over the last year or so.
How do you see your backlog evolving in the various segments as we go forward here? I know you've been clear this is not a top line story but if you could just give us a little sense for how the 4 segments move up and down over the course of the next few quarters? And then a question for Jim on the cadence of the share repurchase.
Sure.
All right let me start with the question on the backlog.
I think it's important to decompose it and I also think as we have completed the spin out of HII it's a good opportunity to kind of stand back and reflect on the portfolio and how backlog looks for different portfolio elements.
Historically with Shipbuilding inside of Northrop Grumman we had 2 substantial sectors that were platform-driven and whose backlog would come in the big lumps that typically go with the platforms.
And today we are 1 of our 4 sectors that is platform-driven and that's AS [Aerospace Systems].
And if you look at our report on backlog there you'll see a backlog that is characteristic of the large platform businesses that's running close to 2x annual sales.
Our other businesses are typically shorter cycle businesses in terms of the duration of their contracts.
And they also are businesses that tend to have a higher volume of ID/IQ business that doesn't reflect into the backlog the same way that the other contracts do.
And so you'll see lower multiples of annual sales in the backlogs for those businesses.
Together as I indicated in my remarks about 1.6x is kind of where we're running today.
Your question was more forward-looking though and my view on that really goes to where we see some of these pressures going that may have implications on things like production rates on platform businesses I think that will put some pressure there.
We feel a little bit more positive about that because of the heavier reliance that we have on Unmanned Systems which we think are going to get perhaps a little bit more of the relative share of investment.
So we like that positioning on unmanned.
But I would expect a little bit more volatility over time.
And the platform business is not just ours but across our industry given the scrutiny that's going to be applied I think more broadly to how much the nation can afford in terms of production rates.
The other businesses I think are going to tend to trend to about the levels of backlog multiples that we're seeing.
Now there's going to be overall pressure on sort of a total top line and so you can argue about where the top line goes.
But in terms of backlog to sales ratios the level of multiples I think is generally indicative of the way the customer executes its business whether we're in a more robust top line environment or reduced top line environment.
So as a multiple of sales I think that model is probably fairly consistent.
So I hope that answered your question Robert.
And then Jim you were going to answer...
Yes.
Bob on your question on cadence on share repurchase a couple of thoughts here.
You'll recall that at the beginning of the year I said that our guidance for the year anticipated a modest reduction or modest share repurchase program for the year.
It clearly contemplated the pause that we had in the first quarter.
Frankly we didn't know for sure when the Shipbuilding spin would be completed.
As we said in our guidance for the year we anticipated it would be completed during the year but didn't really peg a time for when that would be completed.
We do as we said in the press release announcing earnings and the share authorization increase we're in the market from time to time.
We normally don't give a time frame for when we're going to complete that $4 billion authorization that we have.
But probably the best way to try to address your question is to address it from the perspective of the guidance for the year.
And as I'd look at guidance for the year I contemplate a range of share repurchase alternatives.
A range of operating improvements as well.
And I think it's fair to say that the guidance at this point contemplates about a 3.5% reduction in the average shares outstanding for the year.
Our next question will come from the line of Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> On IS on basically Information Systems you had very good margins for the quarter.
Could you talk about where that unit's headed in terms of margin longer term? And I know it's been great that we haven't talked a lot recently about the state of Virginia and the San Diego County and maybe you could give an update on those or do we have those issues really behind us now? Let me talk about margins and I think Wes will add a couple of comments on the other 2 programs as well.
For quite a while now Rob -- or Doug we've talked about 9% margins in this business as where we thought the business ought to perform.
Clearly we'd like to push it above that.
But 9% is our guidance for the year.
We were at 8.9% as I recall for last year 9.6% this quarter.
This quarter did have some increased deliveries on some programs that have some hardware associated with improved margins with them.
You expect that to kind of tail off as we go through the year here.
So that's why we're looking at about a 9% for the year.
Clearly all of us were incentivized to do better than that.
And I kind of think the 9% or so a little bit on the upside is where this business ought to be and where we're driving it to be.
All right and Doug you asked about the county of San Diego and VITA [Virginia Information Technologies Agency] I would say both have come long way in terms of stabilization.
County of San Diego operating quite well.
With respect to VITA we see continued steady improvement on the performance there.
Our first step on VITA has been transforming the environment across a very widely disparate set of IT systems transforming that into a new state-of-the-art environment.
And that transformation process on VITA is nearing completion.
The agencies that we have transformed are seeing good steady performance and performance improvements.
We are still occasionally experiencing some challenges in the few remaining agencies that are continuing to operate under their older legacy if you will environments.
And so from time to time we see those flare up with issues but we believe those issues will be mitigated as we complete the transformation process.
We are working very very closely with the Commonwealth [Commonwealth of Virginia] on that remaining transformation schedule.
And we see that as on the right track.
The program I think as you know continues to operate at a loss.
That is not an attractive business proposition for us at all but we are committed to be operating effectively with the Commonwealth to meet our commitments and make sure this thing operates and is transferred very successfully.
And I think we're making really good progress on that.
Our next question will come from the line of Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Jim these are all for you sorry Wes.
And it's all sort of related some of the financial metrics that you talked about.
First could you -- the dividend increase sort of points to a 30% payout ratio and maybe you could so there's sort of 3 parts to this.
One is could you sort of address what you're thinking about your payout ratio? What you're thinking about rolling up [ph] a return on invested capital going forward because that's sort of part of our where you're going to go if you're not going to grow a lot you got to maximize the return on equity.
And then third if I did the math right 3.5% shrink to the shares is only like $600 million.
And I thought you said you are committed to the $1.4 billion for the purchase of the stocks.
So is there a loose end there? So a couple of thoughts here.
On the 3.5% that's from last year's weighted average shares.
We lost -- obviously issued shares -- share in the first quarter for our annual incentive compensation program.
So new options new performance shares.
So that's an upper to last year's weighted average shares that you probably haven't factored into that analysis or calculation.
And again realize we're not going to be able to start our share repurchases until this information is public for a number of days.
And so when you look at weighted average shares it's going to take more than your dollar amount the $600 million you talked about to affect that weighted average shares for the year.
In terms of payout ratios and yields we actually look at both payout ratios and yield pay more attention to payout ratios.
We look at payout ratios both on a GAAP basis as well as a pension-adjusted basis and in relationships to our peers.
And yes we target around let's call it a 1/3 or 30%-type of payout ratio.
And as you know RONA [return on net assets] is one of our objectives long-term performance measures that our team has incentivized on.
So we've worked to improve RONA.
Holding cash is not very effective so yes there is some incentive to go deal with the cash balance as it relates to RONA.
Did I get all your questions Howard? Inc.</strong> Yes more or less.
There's just one other perspective there's the math that goes with the share repurchase.
I would just say it's also instructive to look at our history.
When we get a share repurchase authorization we execute to make sure we get things done and on a meaningful timeline.
So I think we have a pretty good history there as well.
Our next question will come from the line of Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Wes you talked about ISR Cyber Unmanned and Logistics as being kind of the marquee headline businesses you want to be in.
How much of your portfolio today directly fits into those buckets? And then in the context of portfolio shaping is it that you want to wind down towards centering on those buckets and anything that's not in them is in play? Or is this more the direction of where you want to go out and acquire? Yes Myles I think I would characterize those areas as the predominance of focus.
They are 4 we're a company that this year is $27.5 billion in annual revenue that we're driving towards so certainly not everything either does nor should fit into 4 specific categories.
We highlight those though to make sure that there's some clarity around the way we think about alignment with the customers' emerging needs.
So they are not if you will criteria that we're using to determine perhaps in or out on the portfolio.
They are more intended to serve as a way of framing the way we think about investing.
The way we think about aligning capabilities internally where we see substantial opportunities for our 4 businesses to work together to create synergy.
They do represent a large fraction of our portfolio.
We've not broken that out publicly in the past I'm going to be a little bit careful about doing that.
But it is a substantial fraction of our sales.
You asked a little bit about M&amp;A as well.
From my perspective we have what we need in these areas.
We're not looking at a big gap from a capability perspective.
We do look in the marketplace to see what emerging capabilities might augment that over time but given the strength of the portfolio we have in these areas I don't feel that we need to take any dramatic actions that will be a departure from the disciplined approach that we've taken in our investment philosophy.
So it's not a laying of the groundwork if you will for some substantial M&amp;A program here.
It is more intended to provide a very solid framework for how we're thinking about the move forward on the company the alignment with where we see the customer going and how we're shaping our priorities for investment.
That's really helpful.
One quick follow-up to that you mentioned portfolio shaping I'm curious if you can size what kind of level of portfolio shaping you need to stay being on the table in 12 to 24 months.
Yes it is -- it will be a product of the continued activity that we go through.
We have a pretty robust program internally to decompose our portfolio not necessarily just along the lines of our organizational structure but along the lines of what our customer is doing along the lines of the market trends that we see.
We also look at financially in terms of performance metrics.
So we decompose it routinely to try and look forward into where we see the market going.
And in those areas where we see departures from our ability to generate value either through just the straightforward operations of that part of the business or through synergy we want the different parts of the businesses to be working together so that we can generate more value.
Where we see departures from those criteria we look at whether or not we might be able to create more value for our shareholders and our customers and our employees by separating.
And we've been doing this now rather routinely for a number of years.
We have divested elements of our Electronic Systems portfolio over the last few years and I think very effectively executed on those.
We've divested components of our Information Systems business most notably the TASC business and then of course the most recent substantial activity with the spin out of our Shipbuilding business.
I think those are reflective of the way we think about portfolio management from -- is it generating synergy and where is it going.
So I wouldn't want to call out any specific actions we might take but I would want to emphasize the fact that we do think that active portfolio management is a key part of value creation opportunity that we see going forward particularly in the environment where things are going to continue to shift.
Wes I just might add that those actions Shipbuilding TASC Electronics activity that's $8.5 billion of revenue over the last 2 years 2 plus years that have been addressed.
Yes so that's pretty active.
Yes.
Our next question will come from the line of Joe Nadol of JP Morgan.
My question I hate to come back to the topic but I'm going to ask it a little differently.
And that's on the share repurchase again.
And I'm really trying to get at is what you're committing to in terms of total share repurchase because as a matter of course you guys have made over $1 billion per year each for the last several anyway.
You're committing this $1.4 billion but is that in addition to the share repurchase activity we could normally expect say as a percentage of your cash flow.
Or is that sort of funding the normal share repurchase? And the second part of it Wes and or Jim as you thought about the share repurchase and what you're going to do with this dividend from Huntington did you consider a special dividend? And if so what were the various factors that you went back and forth with? Why did you come up with share repurchase as opposed to a dividend? So Joe let me try to clarify here.
The $1.4 billion obviously is the contribution that we received from the Shipbuilding.
And what we tried to say is that in thinking about our total authorization we added that amount to what we had currently and some additional amount to get to the $4 billion authorization that obviously the board approved.
That does not mean that we're going to spend $1.4 billion in the quarter or in the year.
Frankly some of the analysts I think have gotten a little bit ahead of us on what we were going to do for this year because as I said in the year end call we said modest reduction contemplating the pause that we had put in place for our share repurchases.
My comment to this is [indiscernible] that Rob on the share repurchases for this year that the guidance anticipates about a 3.5% reduction in the average shares outstanding for the year.
So you can essentially do the math of recognizing that we had very little share reduction in the first quarter.
We're only going to be able to start share repurchases here sometime in May.
And so to get that kind of 3.5% reduction over the year with the increase that we've already had in shares outstanding with the new grants in February we're going to spend a reasonable amount of cash this year on share repurchases.
Could we do more? Potentially.
But let's take this in steps as we go through the year.
Our next question will come from the line of Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Not to beat the dead horse but this authorization is $4 billion the last couple have been for $2 billion to $2.5 billion.
And if you kind of look as you did suggest that we should look at what you've been doing.
You essentially completed your full authorization in the past.
It looks like in approximately 18 to 24 months and so you've given us some of the tactics here on why the first quarter and second quarter will have that impact.
But would it be realistic for us to expect you as you have in the past to get up to a run rate therefore of $2 billion or more? Yes Cai I think -- this is Wes let me just give you my perspective.
We don't want to be very explicit about the timing or quantity of a share repurchase program.
We want the flexibility to do it intelligently.
And I think there is a very strong signal here that we didn't just say "All right here's the $1.4 billion from Shipbuilding.
Let's go and just have that be our authorization and go work on it." As Jim indicated we added it to didn't replaced it with we added it to an outstanding repurchase authorization that we had and then we add a little bit more.
So there's an important signal about the way we're thinking about creating value through cash deployment in the company.
But as we have been I think we have a really good track record of how we've done share repurchase.
We are thoughtful about each of the steps we enter into.
We're thoughtful about the mechanism that we use and the pace and we're going to continue to use that methodology going forward.
So we're probably not going to say much more here at all about the pace going forward.
But again I think there's a lot to be learned by looking at what we've done in the past.
It continues to shape the way we think about going forward.
Our next question will come from the line of Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions at Jim actually on the financial side.
Jim I was wondering if you could give us an idea of where you think inventory and CapEx is going to trend from here obviously now that Huntington is gone? And whether there's an opportunity to bring those down and also the progress you've made so far and expect going forward on bringing down the head office expense? Yes in terms of CapEx I would look for about $600 million to $700 million kind of for this year.
If we have a slowdown in revenue clearly it will come down as we go forward but kind of the $600 million to $700 million is I think a reasonable range for us.
It's about equal to depreciation and amortization.
So in a kind of flattish environment I look for that kind of relationship between our investment in the business and amortization of cost.
In terms of progress on home office cost we still have the challenges that I've talked about in the past that we're going to have some stranded cost or cost inefficiencies that come from loss of the $6.7 billion in our base from Shipbuilding.
We are working on addressing that.
As I said in the past it probably going to take us anywhere from a year or so maybe 2 years to be able to fully address those costs so that doesn't have an impact on the organization on a go-forward basis.
We're in the front end of working on that.
Clearly the move to DC is an opportunity to deal partially with those costs.
But I think that's essentially where we are at this point Rob.
LLC</strong> I'm kind of just wondering on inventories as well.
On inventories I don't see a whole lot of change.
Clearly I'm pushing we're pushing the organization to reduce them.
But I think we're fairly efficient today in our working capital.
It's always the big variance in our cash flow forecast for the year.
We've normally can look at our EBITDA and cash taxes and cash interest and have a good sense of where they're going to come out and the variable that goes into our cash guidance for the year is essentially the working capital variance.
As you know in years past we've been able to reduce working capital at the same time while growing sales which is obviously a difficult challenge but have been able to do that.
We're not as efficient last year in working capital so I think we have some opportunities going into this year and reflected in our range of guidance for cash.
And I made it in broader that inventory it's essentially working capital.
Our next question will come from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Two questions if I could.
One is Electronic Systems you made a comment about international contract award delays.
And I'm wondering is that a decision by the customer? Or is that they have made the decision and they've actually haven't giving you the contract? Can you talk a little bit more about that.
And then just secondly on the F-35 I'm surprised we still haven't seen the LRIP 4 and I'm just wondering why is it taking so long? And when we get to LRIP 5 will there be as big of a gap between when Lockheed gets the contract versus you? Yes Sam let me take both of those it's Wes.
On the Electronic Systems our reference there was not to an individual issue it was a little bit more broadly.
That some of the international budget environments have actually held up some of the contract awards that we've been working on for some time.
We see delays there.
Although I would say in some countries there's some downward pressures that are some are even more severe than what we're seeing here but it's primarily delays that we've been observing.
On F-35 on LRIP 4 as you're probably aware and I'm sure been interacting with our prime Lockheed Martin on this there is a very very strong focus on the part of the customer on affordability and how we get the program on a trajectory that is going to make sense both to the U.S.
and for our partner countries that has resulted in a process on LRIP 4 of kind of standing back and making sure that we're all collectively doing the things we need to do to support getting to the right outcomes there.
And it has delayed the contracting discussions as we have focused both on contract type and of course the actual valuations.
So that's taking a little bit longer.
I think the groundwork we're doing on LRIP 4 is going to help pave the way for future LRIP discussions.
But there is a lot of work to be done on this program to get it to where it needs to be from an affordability perspective.
And I think you're seeing a reflection of that in this timing.
Our next question will come from the line of David Strauss of UBS.
Wes could you address Global Hawk the outlook there? Obviously we had another Nunn-McCurdy how it did in the fiscal '11 budget? And then how it looks in the fiscal '12 budget? And what you're doing from your side to contain costs on the program? Sure.
Global Hawk is a program that we're really really proud of.
We never like to see anything like a Nunn-McCurdy breach occur.
That's not a happy place to be.
But I do think there was a lot of clarity in the discussion that the department provided to the Hill.
Clarity that the primary reason for the Nunn-McCurdy breach was the reduction of the Block 40 quantities from I believe 22 down to 11 aircraft due to the budget pressures and the other pressures that the Air Force is dealing with.
There were some other issues identified like the managing manufacturing source issues on the ground segment.
Getting some of the depots stood up because we're operating this thing all over the globe in a much more aggressive manner than was ever anticipated when the original plan was created for this program and that's the original plan against which the Nunn-McCurdys are measured.
If you look at what we're doing with this we're flying Global Hawks with around-the-clock operations today in the Persian Gulf in Japan in North Africa.
They are to some extent the victims of their own success in terms of being so successful from a mission perspective that we're sort of scrambling to keep up with them from a budget perspective.
Turning the clock back about a year ago the department the Air Force was very clear that they were not happy with the trajectory on affordability on Global Hawk.
We made commitments and have worked very closely both with the Air Force acquisition teams.
Dave Van Buren's been very involved in this as has Ash Carter.
We've come a long way on affordability and I'm very pleased to see the trajectory that we're on there.
And I think the department is also pleased to see where we're headed.
I think this is a program with very long legs.
It's demonstrating such an enormous diversity of capability whether it's on the surveillance side with the different mission sensors that were flying and even more recently on the communication side with the BACN payloads that we're putting on the Global Hawk.
So we're looking forward to continuing to deliver a whole range of capability different versions of this very exceptional system to the Air Force.
And as I mentioned in my remarks the maritime version BAMS is proceeding well.
So we're looking forward to some long legs on this platform with the Navy as well.
Jim a question for you.
Could you address corporate and on pension? I think on pension [indiscernible] you said $355 million now.
I thought that number was $325 million but I might be wrong.
And then on corporate it was obviously low but based on your outlook for all-in margins it looks like that's going to obviously pick up here with the move of headquarters and stuff.
And if you could address that and stranded cost and all of that.
Yes.
In terms of corporate I essentially see us ending the year a little bit greater than we ended last year frankly.
Clearly this year has a bunch of move-related costs that we're going to incur probably more in the third and fourth quarters.
And so you're going to see some lumpiness in this as we go through the year.
Some of those costs are going to hit in the third and fourth quarter when moves actually occur.
We are planning the move from Century City in August.
Some of the people some of the costs obviously is people-related cost when they move when they sell their homes.
And so those are going to probably be in the third quarter and fourth as well potentially some in the second quarter.
And we're not necessarily always going to have the change in recoverability of state income taxes that occurred in this first quarter.
So lumpiness but I think on a global basis for the year as I've said a little bit greater than where we ended last year's in terms of total corporate.
Stranded cost essentially most of those stranded cost get a -- some of them end up at corporate.
A big part of them end up as additional cost being pushed to the operating sectors included in their margin rates.
So essentially we're trying to address that that way.
And I forgot what was the other part of your question? Oh pension.
$355 million was our -- has been our guidance for the year not $325 million.
The run rate for the first quarter was a little bit higher than that.
On a cash basis we true up our cash cost late in the year probably in the third quarter or so when we complete our census data for the beginning of the year.
You might imagine this is a lengthy process to look at all of the employee populations and all the census.
And so we have original our initial estimate that's based on census data that's older.
And then we update it to the actual census data and that takes us into the third quarter normally before we get that finished.
Our final question will come from the line of Jason Gursky of Citi.
Let me start with just a really big picture question on margins and where you see opportunities and risks to margin rates over the next couple of years given what you see in your backlog? And then a little bit more of a specific question on unmanned.
You talked a little bit about the Global Hawk or a lot about Global Hawk.
Can you talk a little bit about other opportunities that you might see in the future given the capabilities that you now have built there on unmanned platforms? All right Jason this is Wes.
Just your first question on where we see both opportunities and perhaps risks in the operating margin part of our business.
This has been an area of substantial focus for us.
If you turn the clock back just a couple of years ago our operating margin rates were below those of our industry peers.
If you look at it sort of segment by segment there were a lot of reasons for that.
Some of it was the contracts we had taken on some of it was program performance.
So we've been working this very very aggressively.
We demonstrated I think some really good improvements over the last couple of years and have achieved margin rates most recently that are I think margin rates we can be very proud of.
Does that mean we're stopping that we're not going to continue to push? No we want to continue to improve.
There are some natural limitations associated with the nature of contracts we can enter into with our customers.
But we are being very thoughtful about which contracts we have structured our incentive system to ensure that we are aligning the team on -- making sure we're taking on good contracts contracts that we can execute for our customers.
So this is as much about performing for our customers as it is our shareholders.
We want to make sure we can perform because when we perform we generally do well on profitably.
And we're going to continue to put upward focus on that.
The numbers that we've specified for this year I think are good indicators of where we believe sustainable outcomes are.
We're of course going to be working hard to do better than that.
But that's where we see the sustainable outcome levels.
With respect to unmanned unmanned is an area that's just continuing to blossom in terms of the applications.
The early focus had been primarily on fixed-wing and surveillance.
That is what we're seeing today with Global Hawk.
Obviously that transitioned for some platforms not Global Hawk but it transitioned to some platforms for weapons delivery.
We're obviously the surveillance part of this mission is going to continue to grow.
We have taken a broad view to the application of the technology we developed primarily this concept of a very open architecture that we're able to transport between different platforms.
We've demonstrated this now with a number of platforms including rotary-wing.
We've had the Fire Scout program and now we're working with the Bell helicopter the Firebird program.
We've taken it over to UCAS which is truly a transformational opportunity to put a large unmanned vehicle in a mode of landing on an aircraft carrier and we succeeded in our first flight on that earlier this year and that they had several subsequent successful flights.
So we see basically anything that's been manned in the past has opportunities for unmanned.
And unmanned further extends the opportunity space because some of the constraints associated with putting human beings in the aircraft that have limited the mission applications are gone.
So we do see a full emerging set of new areas for this class of technology and we're determined to be leaders in this to continue to stay out in front and we're investing accordingly.
So I hope that provides a framework for your question.
Yes it does.
And just lastly if you could just touch on some of the risks potential risks to the margins.
At the risk with the marketplace to many -- to a very large extent.
Obviously we're going to be very attentive to that as we move into this.
Production rates could always have some implications in that regard.
And just the general market environment in some of our shorter cycle businesses could also focus in that area.
In the past if you'd ask that question I would've had a long list of specific program issues to go through with you.
And I think we've made a lot of progress there.
We're not perfect.
No company ever is.
And there are many programs we continue to work hard on.
But I think we've made a lot of progress in managing the individual program risks.
We have a methodology inside our company for looking at both the risks and opportunities on a program-by-program basis and managing them in accordance with that methodology.
I think that has helped us a lot.
So thanks Jason.
And I think with that we'll conclude the Q&amp;A.
And Wes do you want to make some closing remarks? Yes I will just wrap up quickly.
Just to reiterate a little bit of what I said in my earlier comments it was a really good start to the year for us and we're very pleased with our financial results particularly the continued solid operating performance in our sectors.
This is going to continue to be quite a dynamic environment both from a customer side and from an industry side with plenty of challenges.
But as we navigate through those challenges I just want to reinforce we are absolutely committed to value creation for our shareholders our customers and our employees.
We believe we have a portfolio that is well-positioned to support those value creation objectives.
And given that capability our focus is going to continue to be on performance on optimizing that portfolio and making sure we are effectively deploying our strong cash generation.
So thanks for listening in and participating with us on our call today and thank you for your continued interest in Northrop Grumman.
Thank you sir and thank you for your participation in today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Crystal and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Paul Gregory Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Great.
Thank you very much Crystal.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Second Quarter of 2011 Conference Call.
We provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings and include a new risk factor related to the resolution of the issues regarding the U.S.
government's debt ceiling.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
During today's call we'll discuss second quarter 2011 results and our financial guidance for 2011 for continuing operations.
On the call today are our CEO Wes Bush and our CFO Jim Palmer.
With that let’s go to Slide 3.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
All right.
Thanks Paul.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
Our second quarter results demonstrate that our strategy of driving shareholder value through performance portfolio optimization and effective cash deployment continues to generate EPS growth.
Despite a challenging top line environment we had exceptional margin rate performance for the quarter.
After adjusting last year's second quarter results for the $0.98 per share tax benefit our earnings per share from continuing operations increased 24% to $1.81 from $1.46.
The primary EPS growth drivers were continued performance improvement in our businesses higher pension income and a lower share count.
Our businesses generated a 12% segment operating margin rate.
Total operating margin rate increased to 12.8% primarily reflecting performance improvements and higher pension income.
In May we executed a $1 billion accelerated share repurchase which immediately reduced our outstanding share count by 15.6 million shares.
And along with the dividend increase we also announced in May demonstrates our continued commitment to creating shareholder value through returning cash to our shareholders.
We now expect our 2011 EPS from continuing operations to range between $6.75 and $6.90.
The increase in 2011 EPS guidance contemplates our strong year-to-date results and performance improvement for both segment operating margin and total operating margin rates.
The new range represents double-digit year-over-year EPS growth after adjusting for one-time items in 2010 such as the tax benefit and the impact of our debt tender.
Cash performance for the quarter and year-to-date continues to support our guidance.
Through 6 months cash from continuing operations before discretionary pension contributions totaled $490 million 21% higher than last year.
And as we've stated on previous calls we expect cash generation to be weighted toward the second half of the year which has been our historical pattern.
Turning to sales 3 primary factors impacted the quarter.
Budget uncertainties impacting our customers the announced force reductions in Iraq and Afghanistan and our own portfolio shaping decisions that were anticipated in our guidance.
So let me briefly discuss all 3 of these.
First overall budget pressures and the decline in government and defense outlays.
The 6-month continuing resolution as well as continued uncertainties surrounding the debt ceiling and future defense budgets caused our customers to move more slowly and spend more conservatively.
We did not see the recovery in spending that one might have expected with the end of the continuing resolution and the passage of the fiscal year 2011 budget.
In this environment new awards are moving to the right and it's also taking a bit longer to get continuing business under contract.
In addition to budget pressures we are beginning to see the impact of the announced troop drawdowns in Iraq and Afghanistan primarily in Electronic Systems for ID/IQ contracts such as the vehicular intercommunication systems that are used by the Army.
And finally sales do reflect our strategic portfolio shaping which includes the previously announced reduction in our Nevada Test Site joint venture participation which we announced earlier this year as well as the sale of our San Diego County outsourcing contract back in May.
While these 2 actions reduced second quarter sales by approximately $160 million they also supported this quarter's performance improvement and segment margin rate expansion.
So based on year-to-date results and our outlook for the rest of the year we now expect 2011 sales of approximately $27 billion.
Looking forward we continue to believe that we are well aligned with our customers investment priorities in Unmanned Systems Cybersecurity C4ISR and Logistics.
We believe that these areas will continue to be well supported in future budgets as they are critical to the most pressing national security missions.
We expect that once the current state of budget disarray is resolved and future projects are clarified our customer spending behavior should begin to normalize.
However the environment continues to be very dynamic and it may take some time before there is more clarity in DoD strategy and its program level planning.
So now turning to our operations last Friday we were awarded a $795-million E2D contract that includes LRIP 3 a plus up on LRIP 2 and longleaf funding for LRIP 4.
The contract also provides an option for LRIP 4 production which we expect will be awarded sometime next year.
This is a significant milestone for Northrop and for the Navy as it increases the number of aircraft purchased across multiple production lots.
And it results in overall per aircraft cost reductions through economies of scale.
Based on this contract we expect to recover sales on this program in the second half of the year.
We also have several large pending awards including F-35 and the latest multiyear for the F/A-18.
Now I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing some of our unmanned programs.
Starting with Global Hawk the program is making very good progress.
We've used the Block 30 IOT NE results as a basis for incorporating a number of improvements.
Of the 9 primary issues identified in that report 5 have already been corrected and the program is on track to correct the remainder over the next several months.
The Department of Defense has recertified the program and deemed it critical to national defense.
The DoD also recommended reducing the number of Block 30 attrition aircraft and using those savings to fund support areas such as sustainment spares and ground station and communications to enable the extensive operational use of these systems.
In addition the Global Hawk affordability initiative that Northrop Grumman is driving with the Air Force is making progress in ensuring these systems continue to bring value to our customer.
To quote some recent remarks by a senior Air Force official "Global Hawks are getting the job done today for the war-fighter in the field and will continue to be a key contributor in our intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities " end quote.
We believe the program is postured for success and should be ready for a full rate production decision.
Fire Scout also has made tremendous operational advancements in recent months despite some early reports that questioned its ability to support the goal of 300 flight hours per month in Afghanistan.
Well we're happy to report that in June 2011 during its very first full month of operational flying Fire Scout provided 307 hours of support to ground troops and is on track to meet or exceed 300 hours for July.
We also continue to make solid progress on key development programs such as Navy UCAS LEMV and BAMS and Aerospace Systems is intensely focused on the successful pursuit of new business opportunities including UCLASS and the long-range strike program.
Aerospace Systems is performing well.
And despite its sales for the first 6 months of 2011 being down about 4% from last year we see a stronger second half for the sector and believe its sales will end the year at about the same level as last year.
Jim will cover the sector outlooks in a bit more detail in his comments.
During the quarter Electronic Systems' Directional Infrared Countermeasure Systems or DIRCM achieved more than 1 million operational hours in service while demonstrating operational availability of more than 99%.
ES continues to be a technology leader in non-kinetic products and systems such as those required for advanced electronic warfare.
We expect this to be an increasingly important national security capability.
Information Systems sales have been impacted by the prevailing budget uncertainty.
But they continue to have a robust set of new business opportunities including the GMB development and sustainment program the CAINS program and numerous cyber-related opportunities.
During this quarter we also sold the San Diego County IT contract.
This decision is consistent with our strategy of exiting lines of business that do not meet our standards of performance.
And I might add this decision was made in collaboration with our customer.
Technical Services had a solid quarter.
Their results included higher logistics and modernization sales consistent with our strategy for the sector.
Also during the quarter Technical Services received 1 of 3 awards for the $300 million Headquarters U.S.
Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency ID/IQ contract and it will compete for cash quarters to support DoD Civil Engineering missions worldwide.
In closing I'd like to reiterate that we continue to position the company for an increasingly competitive and challenging environment in which deficit reduction is becoming a higher priority for our national leadership.
Our challenge is to continue to anticipate the needs of our customers provide affordable innovative solutions and aggressively address our cost structure operational execution and our productivity.
As we demonstrated this quarter we can create value in an environment of constrained top line growth by focusing on our key priorities: performance driven by strong execution optimizing our portfolio and effectively deploying our cash.
So now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and our guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
I will begin my comments by providing a little bit more detail on our second quarter results.
As I look at the quarter the highlights were segment operating margin rate expansion which largely offset the impact of lower sales higher total operating income as well as margin rate and a 24% increase in underlying earnings per share.
We are experiencing some headwind on the top line and as I analyze the results for the quarter across our businesses it looks to me about half of the variance last year includes things that we anticipated in our guidance for this year.
The Nevada joint venture participation reduction and NPOESS restructuring are examples of those types of items.
The remainder of the variance I would attribute to second quarter budget pressure issues which largely impacted Electronic Systems and Information Systems.
These budget pressure issues include the lingering impact of the 6-month continuing resolution as well as announced troop drawdowns delayed awards and the overall budget uncertainty as well as customer conservatism that Wes talked about in his comments.
Moving to guidance of Slide 4 we now anticipate about a 2% reduction or $500 million in 2011 sales due to the budget pressures and troop drawdown.
Clearly we are operating in a highly dynamic environment and our full year sales will reflect the evolving budget process in the second half of the year.
But I want to go into a little bit more detail on a sector by sector basis.
So I'll start with Aerospace Systems whose second quarter sales reflect the delayed awards for the F-35 and the E-2D programs which lowered sales by about $150 million as well as the NPOESS restructuring which represents in an additional $50 million impact in the second quarter.
Before these 3 items AS sales were within 2% of last year.
In terms of our outlook for the year we view the impacts from F-35 and E-2D as timing issues.
The finalization of these contracts and a higher volume on several other programs should allow us to recover sales during the third and fourth quarters.
So as  Wes said we continue to expect relatively stable sales for Aerospace Systems in 2011.
Aerospace second quarter operating income was roughly comparable to last year as improved program performance across several programs drove the margin rate in Aerospace to 12.8% compared to 11.8% last year.
Margin rate expansion largely offset the impact of lower sales in the quarter.
And based on the strength of year-to-date operating income we now expect Aerospace operating margin rate to be in the mid-11% range for the year.
Electronic Systems saw sales decline by nearly 10% due to lower deliveries under ID/IQ contracts for the Aerial com and the Vehicular Intercommunications Systems or VIS as driven by the announced drawdown of troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Lower deliveries produced to programs reduced sales by about $130 million in the quarter.
So as I look at sales for ES for the year we now expect them to range between $7.3 billion and $7.4 billion for the year.
Despite the lower sales volume however operating income increased 8% and margin rate expanded to 15.9% outstanding margin rate.
The quarter's improvement reflects some positive adjustments on programs nearing completion in the land of self-protection systems and targeting system areas as well as improved performance in intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance programs.
A number of these performance improvements are non-recurring so this quarter's strong margin rate is likely not sustainable.
However based on the first half results we are raising the expected margin rate for ES to the mid- to high-13% range from approximately 13% previously.
In Information Systems sales declined by 4% for the quarter primarily due to lower volume on several programs in the Defense Systems part of the business.
Operating margin for the quarter was 9.3% compared with 9.7% last year.
You might remember that last year included an $18 million benefit related to a subcontractor risk retirement on the New York City Wireless program.
So if we exclude that benefit from last year's operating margin rate the rate would have been 8.8%.
This quarter's results included a small pickup from the sale of San Diego County IT Outsourcing contract but even excluding that pickup the underlying IS margin rate improved on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Similarly to ES budget pressures are impacting the IS top line and now we expect sales of about $8.2 billion for the year.
Additionally a part of this decline is also due to the sale of the San Diego IT contract that we talked about previously.
We continue to expect an operating margin rate of about 9% for the IS business for the year.
Moving on to Technical Services second quarter sales reflect our reduced participation in the Nevada National Security site joint venture which represented sales about $150 million in the last year's second quarter.
The change in the joint venture participation more than offset the higher sales for the logistics and services part of the business.
Their operating income was comparable to last year and operating margin rate increased 130 basis points principally due to the change in the joint venture participation.
So we continue to expect sales of approximately $2.5 billion for TS for the year which largely again reflects that reduced participation in the joint venture and as well contemplates the phaseout of some business lines that aren't meeting their return expectations.
And we continue to expect the margin rate MTS to improve to about 8% for the year.
So based on the strength of year-to-date results we are increasing our estimate per segment operating margin rate to about approximately 11% for the mid-10% range and we now expect a total operating margin rate in the mid-11% range for the year.
The increase in total operating margin rate contemplates the higher segment operating margin rate an increase in the net pension adjustments from about $355 million to about $400 million of income.
And an assumption of about $200 million for an unallocated corporate expense and potential risk items.
The increase in our expected pension income is due to the finalization of our plan demographic analysis that we complete based on the population at the beginning of the year.
Turning to cash.
Through 6 months cash provided by continuing operations before discretionary pension contributions improved by 21%.
As expected cash from continuing operations was low for the quarter and we continue to expect cash to be heavily weighted towards the second half of the year as has been our historical practice.
As we mentioned last quarter we did have some substantial cash outflows this quarter including a $500 million discretionary pension contribution as well as tax payments totaling about another $500 million.
I think I should also Paul provide a quick update on our share repurchase program.
As Wes mentioned in his comments we executed a $1 billion ASR program in early May which immediately reduced our shares outstanding by 15.6 million shares.
I would note until the ASR is completed under the terms of the contract we're restricted from purchasing shares in the open market.
As Wes mentioned we increased our guidance for 2011 EPS from continuing operations to $6.75 to $6.90.
The guidance reflects an additional $0.10 for higher pension income another $0.07 for a lower assumed diluted share counts and netting that pension and share count improvements against the impact of lower sales that $500 million reduction in guidance for the year results in about a $0.03 to $0.04 improvement from our previous guidance.
So the balance of the increase was driven by operating performance improvement in the sectors or about $0.20 of the improvement is due to that operating performance.
Finally I should note that our guidance assumes that the national debt ceiling issue is successfully resolved in a timely manner.
So in conclusion second quarter results demonstrate that we remain focused on generating shareholder value through performance portfolio optimization and effective cash deployment.
That concludes my formal remarks but before we begin Q&amp;A I just wanted to mention that today is Paul Gregory's last conference call before he assumes a new role at Northrop Grumman here at the end of the month.
I know many of you have enjoyed working with Paul and I want to personally acknowledge his strong contributions to our IR activities over the last 2-plus years.
Steve Movius who is currently the CFO of our Information Systems sector will take over Paul's duties as the VP of IR here at the end of the month.
So obviously I wish both of you Paul and Steve the very best in your new roles.
So at this point I think we are ready for some Q&amp;A.
Okay.
Thank you Jim for those kind comments.
And with that Crystal I think we're ready to move on to questions and answers.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
The ES margins Jim can you size the ESC adjustments in there? Was it about $40 million? I think that's a little high.
The way I look at it it's about -- I'll call it in a range of $30 million $31 million.
And without that margin rates are probably about mid $14 million for the quarter.
Okay.
And the back half of the year's assumed rates of 13% just more on mix.
Anything else? Yes I'd say so.
Okay.
And then Wes I guess a top little question or I have a little question for you.
The incentives that you put in place for the last couple of years have really been focused on the margin of efficiency the cash conversion and all those things are essentially playing out.
The one thing that's been lacking for purpose probably has been any type of incentives toward sales growth.
I'm curious sales are coming in light and we're explaining that given the CR and down -- the down draft in operations.
But do you think that you should put a carrot out there for sales growth in the future? And would that help the situation at all or are we just in the realm of moving with wherever the budget growth is? Well Myles I appreciate the question because I think it's important to be able to convey how we think about sales in the company.
At the beginning of last year we stood back and thought a little bit about some of the challenges we had experienced over a number of years and really getting the level of performance out of the company that we needed specifically around margin rate performance.
And some of that went to looking carefully at our portfolio and really understanding what was performing and what was not performing.
And in doing so we needed to make some decisions and we talked about it last year we talked about it this year at the beginning of the year that actually we're going to push ourselves down because we wanted to focus on higher quality sales in the organization.
We also wanted to focus on sort of the mechanics of how we were putting those sales through the system in terms of how well we're going to negotiating our contracts and of course how well we're executing.
So those have been sort of underlying perspectives that have made us I think sharpen our pencil a bit on which things we're really going to pursue and also really focus on how we're executing and negotiating on those.
We have not forgotten the importance of sales in our business.
I don't want anyone to think that that is the case.
In fact our long-term incentives that are permeated throughout the organization RONA really does require growth for us to be able to capture those long-term incentive returns.
So I would tweak your earlier statement a little bit that our sales incentive is more embedded in our long-term than it is in our annual.
But we did that for a purpose because wanted to make sure that as we're capturing sales they're generating long-term benefits to our company that it's not just to move the needle on a sales line that might eventually come back and bite us.
So the focus in the company is on growth.
That's important to us and that goes to the way that we've been shaping our portfolio.
When I talk about portfolio optimization and our focus on unmanned and cyber and C4ISR and logistics those are the areas that over the longer term and as I said it's going to take a little bit of time for our customers to get all this sorted out.
But over the longer term we see those as the areas where our customers are going to make their priority investments.
And we think are going to serve the company well.
So there's a little bit of reshaping that's been under way that has as you pointed out impacted the top line in a number of respects.
But we think it's a little bit of the medicine that we needed to get us in the right place for the long term.
I would point out just back to your question on incentives that our annual incentive plan does include awards.
And so those awards are of course the seeds the germination for the sales that we've gained over time.
But as you know there are good sales and bad sales and we need to be very very careful that we're not just given our credit for overruns on cost contracts or sales that really are not generating the level of returns that we need to be generating in our business.
So I like incentivizing awards I think that's the right place for us to be.
And I like the sales perspective to be more of a long-term perspective because it forces us to think about the long-term actions that we're undertaking when we go after a certain bid.
I don't know Jim anything you'd like to add on that? Obviously since you and I were intimately involved in that process I totally agree.
Yes I would also just point out that as you all know in our business most of our sales are coming out of our backlog.
Incentivizing sales is really reaping the benefit out of the backlog.
Incentives around new business capture is really capturing activities that occur in the current year.
That's why we've moved to awards versus sales in the annual plan.
That's helpful.
I'm more curious and think that the strategy has worked.
I'm more curious and if --  if and when the pendulum could swing too far.
But I'll stick to one question.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Paul I don't know where going to -- it's going to be hard to start all over again but nice job.
Just to go back a little bit in terms of business opportunities how do you -- Wes this is a larger question also as opposed to the quarter I mean and there's 2 parts to it.
One is how do you convince your customer that he's not in the business of making your life more difficult because you've seen changes in contract terms that are unfortunate across a number of places.
And then second is how -- what sort of other opportunities? Could you be a little more specific in terms of things you think about as the second half unfolds? Sure.
Let me touch that first question first.
Our customers' buying behavior has I think quite frankly out of necessity in terms of what they're dealing with then shifting a little bit.
A lot more focus on affordability than perhaps the value equation I would say sometimes.
When we're looking at new competition we're seeing a few more where cost is getting weighted more highly than performance.
And so that's something that we are focused on making sure that our business capture efforts are highly around -- focused around affordability.
And quite frankly our continuing program activities are focused on affordability.
I mentioned in my earlier remarks the work that we've been doing on Global Hawk on affordability jointly with the Air Force.
And I've just been absolutely delighted to see how that's been embraced by both the Air Force and the folks of OSD in terms of working with us on this.
They've recognize that it's not just about the contractor coming forward turning the cost numbers down.
It's about how we actually acquire some of these things.
And that has been just a tremendous positive working approach to driving affordability in that program.
We've really used that as a blueprint and spread it across the company to address just about every major acquisition activity that we have under way to really go back and press on requirements press on the way that things are getting bought and quite frankly press on the way we're executing to see if we can't turn those knobs on affordability even further so that we can help the customer deal with just this intense pressure that they are having to cope with.
The other part of the change in buying behavior if you will there's been as you mentioned the terms and conditions part of it and that one we're just having to take on one-by-one.
In just about every case where there's a shift to go from name it cost plus to FPI or FP to FFP we have to have the tough conversations about how you balance that out.
Obviously we can take on risk if we're compensated for it.
And that becomes the discussion and I would say those are sometimes a little bit more difficult discussions than we've had in the past but that's where it is.
And not every case that does the customer decide that at the end of the day wants to shift its contract form when faced with the bill for doing that.
And so we simply have to be very clear with them early on.
I think they have to be clear with us early on about what they're trying to achieve so that we can navigate to a more common place.
Your question relating to the outlook in the second half of the year.
Let me kind of cut that into a couple of pieces.
Both AS our Aerospace Systems business and Technical Services businesses we believe will continue on the track for the annual guidance that we gave at the beginning of the year and Jim went through that in a little bit of detail.
And so in AS in particular if I focus on that as you know we have a very nice portfolio of programs.
There were few of those programs that relative to last year the first half of this year weren't moving quite as quickly either because of delayed awards or just a slower progress in how the customer was metering us on our activities.
We have a pretty good transparency on the profile of that for the second half of the year.
And as I mentioned in my remarks and Jim did in his we've seen net net coming out of the year at AS at about the same as we were last year in total revenue.
And that's just the accumulation program by program of what we're doing on production primarily in each of those areas.
There's a little bit development activity there that makes up some of that difference as well.
But it's fairly widely spread across the program base in AS.
The other 2 sectors IS and TS as Jim indicated in his remarks in both of those sectors we have taken our guidance down a little bit for the year primarily reflecting this slowness that we've seen in the way that the government is procuring things.
And IS in particular is a much faster turnaround business so its contracts get rotated on a much more frequent basis shorter-term contracting activities.
And so they have been the most I would say impacted by that level of shift in that buying behavior.
I don't think we're alone in that.
If you look at how others are reporting this quarter in their similar businesses we're all seeing about the same thing going on.
So I don't see any negative differential there.
ES is also impacted by that.
As you know ES has a number of ID/IQ vehicles as well as other vehicles that are shorter duration.
So they've been -- experienced that impact and then ES also has had a little more exposure particularly to the Army.
And I think if you're familiar as we've gotten into this announced drawdown I think the Army has slowed down on buying some of the higher rate items that it had been buying in the past.
For example our vehicular intercommunication systems and a little bit we've seen it as well with our Laser Rangefinder business.
So those are the factors that drive it for us but as we look at that profile and think about where we'll come up for the year we have shifted our guidance a little bit to $27 billion.
That's what seems to make sense for us.
Our next question is from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I just like to follow on that a little bit more.
When you talk about the effect of the continuing resolution and the challenge that you saw on the budget earlier in  the year we seem to be at a point now where the customer and I would say that in a combined sense DoD and Congress in a way have certain objectives for spending in Defense yet they're not really getting there.
There's a gap because of these budget delays.
Is it possible for you to quantify the size of this impact and if you think that as we roll forward in the year things get normalized are we going to see a lot of that flow back so you'll actually might see a surge in backlogs or revenues? Or is this something that we just may never close? In other words we'll just muddle along and stay at these lower numbers.
Doug this is Jim.
We have a chart in our posted material that reconciles the change in guidance.
And basically 2 items just call it CR or delays or budget pressures the bigger item $300 million; and then drawdowns.
Our assumption frankly is that as we go into the 2012 budget year we're going to end up in another CR.
And so there is just a slowness or molasses in the system if you would characterize it that way because of the real uncertainty of what budgets are going to be.
That's just taking longer to get stuff done.
It will be helpful once we ultimately get beyond the debt ceiling conversations get into a 2012 budget whatever it is certainty is better than uncertainty.
But right where we're seeing this hesitancy to act in some cases because of the need or the potential need perceived need to maybe save a few dollars for just in case our budget is less than I'd anticipated.
Inc.</strong> Well and this -- I mean it seems that as you've said have a stronger effect on the shorter cycle businesses particularly Information Systems.
And it struck me when you look at the margins that you've been able to deliver in the first 2 quarters there which have been quite good yet your guidance is only for 9% for the year is that conservatism related to these issues or do you expect something unit in the business unit itself to change over time ? I really don't expect anything to change in the business unit in the next 6 months or so but I think it's also fair to say that the level of uncertainty that we are faced with given those 2 what's going to happen with the budget when are we going to get the debt ceiling issues resolved all of those uncertainties are clearly greater than what we've dealt with over the last couple of years at this point in time.
Well I don't know if that's conservatism or whatever but yes.
Inc.</strong> No.
I understand.
I mean that's helpful.
Yes Doug.
It's Wes let me just add.
I do see in our interactions with our investment community a desire to kind of get obviously to get to the other side of this thing so that they have a better clarity around what their budgets are going to be and they can kind of get on with things.
But until we kind of get to that place I think we're going to see them continue out of necessity to hold back just a little bit to be able to sort through what this is all going to mean.
As you know with the arrival of our new secretary of defense Panetta and with the intersection of this budget challenge the  Pentagon is going through this mini QDR they're calling it to try and sort through how they really think about the military strategy and intersect that with their best understanding as they can of the budget realities.
And I do think that there is some just sort of holdback in the system kind of waiting to see how that all sorts out.
And you can hardly blame them.
That's a very rational response to the situation.
But I do see once we get through this and I think it's going to take some time as Jim pointed out we're probably going to see another continuing resolution this year.
I hope it's not as long as last year but it's likely given the challenges that everyone is facing up on the Hill I think it's going to take a little bit of time.
So if you detect us being a little bit conservative it's because we're kind of seeing the dynamics of both the Hill community and the customer community with respect to what they're facing over the near-term.
I do believe we're going to get to a point of more clarity around the budget here in the not-too-distant future which will enable the Pentagon to sort through its strategy.
And we feel strongly when we come through that the places where we're focused are going to be the places where priorities are being placed on investment.
But if we're talking about the next few quarters here I think we just need to recognize that this uncertainty can translate into where we are.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> So you're moving your headquarters to the East Coast.
Presumably that will give you some cost savings.
Could you tell us how much and could you tell us in light of this more difficult environment are you considering more dramatic headcount reductions like Lockheed did and more portfolio shaping moves in response to the current environment? And if so can you give us any color on kind of how you think about that issue? I would just say that we are aggressively working the cost equation in our company on every dimension.
We obviously are and I've mentioned this one in some of our prior calls we're taking our corporate office size down about 25% just in terms of headcount just to quantify it a little bit as we're making the move.
We are and we have already made a number of reductions in headcount primarily indirect headcount across all of our sectors in the business.
And we got out I think a little bit in front of that to make sure that we were doing the right things for an affordability equation over the last 2 years.
But we're continuing to press on affordability very comprehensively.
Some of that goes to our cost structure in both organizational structure and our embedded cost.
Some of that goes to the way we're managing our supply chain.
And a lot of that goes to how we construct the offerings that we're putting forward to our customer community.
We are a very innovative company and I would say historically we've used that innovation to discriminate ourselves in terms of capability.
We're going to continue to do that and one thing we're not going to do as we're cutting costs we're not going to take the heart out of our investments for the future.
But we are looking to redirect some of that innovation more towards affordability not just capability.
And I think that will help our positioning over time and I think it will help our customers as we bring forward ideas that will help deliver much of this capability for lower cost.
So sometimes that's a difficult thing to get your head around because you become accustomed to a certain way of doing business.
But comprehensively across the board in our businesses we are executing our business that way.
I mentioned earlier Global Hawk I think that's a good model.
It's not a perfect model because it's not exactly the same set of issues as we see in other areas but I think in terms of a model for how to work with the customer to really go after cost it's a good lesson learned that we are applying broadly in the company.
LLC</strong> And to the second part of the question at portfolio shaping.
Is that getting increasing interest on your part? We've been doing a lot of portfolio shaping.
You might remember we divested TASC you might remember that we spent out Shipbuilding you might remember we decided to exit the State and Local IT Outsourcing business overtime...
Sold the EOS business ...
And then we sold the EOS business earlier this year we announced the reshaping of our Technical Services portfolio.
So you might can tell we kind of like portfolio shaping.
There's a lot that we've been doing we think it can create a lot of value.
And I think any healthy company is always carefully examining its portfolio to make sure that we're really focused on the right things for the future.
I'm not going to try and get up in front of it with any predictions on other things we might be doing.
I would just point to our behavior over the past couple of years and characterize that as indicative of the way we think about value creation.
Cai I would add that as we think about portfolio potentials we tend to look at how well is the business performing how well is the market performing and how well are we positioned in the market to help us make decisions about whether or not that piece of the business is something that is really going to fit with our business on a go forward basis.
Our next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Paul in addition to congratulations on your new horizons.
Wes congratulations on adding a new title of Chairman of the Board as well as CEO now.
That was nice to see.
I'm going to gear my questions away from the domestic environment which you can't influence in and I'd like  to -- Wes have you talk about the initiatives of expanding into the Northrop's growth overseas? I happen to see you in a UAE defense article.
So it's clearly you've got focus there.
Can you tell us about what you're doing there? Yes absolutely.
And let me characterize the international environment broadly as well so that there is kind of a good perspective on this.
There are a number of areas around the globe they're cutting back defense spending.
And we have to be mindful of that when we think about our strategies and how we're positioning.
There are other areas around the globe that not only are investing in defense but are kind of reshaping their priorities.
And as we look at some of that reshaping that's going on we are seeing a move into some of the areas where we do have I would say more discriminating capabilities.
As I mentioned on some of our prior calls one of the key factors in this for us is exportability.
And I have welcomed those to have others in our industry really welcomed the work that this administration is doing to stand back and take I think a more sensible approach to thinking about how we manage defense exports in our country.
That has enabled us and others I would say in our industry to start having a little bit more expansive discussions with some of our allied partners around the globe on the potential for exporting some of our more modern capabilities.
And I just point Unmanned as an example of that.
As we've been thinking about the needs of our partners -- and what's interesting to me about this is if you go over into the field of operation our partners are using these systems all the time side-by-side with us.
And so recognizing that reality as we're thinking about export I think is very important.
But if I think about Unmanned for just a moment we're seeing a growing interest in Global Hawk around the globe.
And Fire Scout is another area of substantial interest.
And that those areas of interest are both I would characterize it in the Middle East and throughout our partners our allies in Asia the Pacific rim.
So that's an example.
And we're continuing to focus our International business to Electronic Systems and IS and a little bit through TS as well.
But I would say perhaps an interesting change to reflect on is what we're seeing in Aerospace Systems primarily with Unmanned but also the Manned systems the E-2D program and of course we're big players on FA-18 and Joint Strike Fighter.
So this will be a little bit lumpy around the globe but just because the customers are all different around the globe.
Every country has its own set of priorities.
But I would say compared to where we were just a few years ago we're seeing a lot more forward-looking opportunity at Aerospace Systems than we have been seeing.
Just as a follow up Wes can you talk about M&amp;A and your assessment as to whether you're seeing some attractive properties that might get dislodged and available for sale given the budget outlook? Well I would say most of what we've seen came onto the market of late has had an extraordinarily high multiple attached to it.
But we do look.
We're going to be very disciplined about how we approach this.
It's important for us to look it's important for us be engaged in assessing what's out there in the market so that if there are opportunities to create value we're going to be addressing those opportunities.
But I think you will see us being disciplined.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC</strong> Jim I thought I'd ask you on the OCO side of things.
You noticed you had a bit of a knock in the quarter from the troop drawdown.
I was wondering if you could size what you think your exposure might be to op tempo in military operations as of today? And whether you see any other business lines that could have pressures going forward from here? In terms of OCO exposure actually we're not that large.
But Electronic Systems in addition to OCO does have some as we said sales to the army itself in the regular budgets.
We have some exposure there if you want to characterize it that way.
I think what we're seeing is more on the OCO side at this point.
But -- and as what we have said in the past it's relatively nominal probably that drawdown we're seeing in our guidance is much of our-OCO type activities.
LLC</strong> So what this done in 2011? We know obviously the military is still busy in Afghanistan.
How much more do you think there is left to go? Our guidance for the year is that -- the $200 million drawdown.
The next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Just 2 quick follow-up questions to things that have been asked earlier.
You did go out of the way this time to quantify what you're describing as Army or OCO-related things in the Ops tempo.
So I think it would be helpful for us all to know if you have the ability to quantify what's remaining if the OCO went to 0 over the next couple of years what that might mean for you.
And then secondly just on Cai's question with regard to some of the actions that we've seen in other companies.
Can you describe for us where your headcount sits today relative to where it did 5 years ago? It's gotten a little bit lost in light of the HII spending.
It'd be just a good metric for us to all follow to get a sense of how much kind of cost actions might be left at Northrop at this point.
I think we're going to have Paul or Steve get back to you with any of those details.
And we generally don't do a sort of detailed accounting on headcount because it's a little bit -- in many of respects not as meaningful as we shipped on some programs from what's internal to what external.
And so I'd be reluctant to point to headcount as a measure of the action.
You have to have to think a little bit more perceptive approach to looking at that.
But obviously our headcount is down.
But I would just caution Jason as you're looking to what other companies are doing we could go out tomorrow and announce a big headcount reduction but that just might mean that we shifted cost someplace else.
And so you have to look at the total cost for it for that to be a meaningful discussion.
But to try to put some of this into perspective we did 2 years ago combined 4 sectors into 2.
Absolutely.
In the process of doing that we reduced our cost about a couple of hundred million dollars in each of those combined sectors.
Right.
I do agree that headcount is not the right measure.
You can simply outsource activities or subcontract the activities.
But headcount is down.
Okay.
Maybe a better way then to ask that question is as you look at it on the pipeline over the next several years are margin rate sustainable at this point? And what do you have under your control to be able to sustain them? As I've said a couple of times recently I believe our long-term margin rate guidance that we talked about through each of the 4 sectors are sustainable over the long term.
Our next question is from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Jim I just wanted to go back on the comment you made about pension.
I guess one is can you repeat I guess why it's running higher than expected and what you're outlook is for this year? And then if you couple how performance looks year-to-date plus this $500 million contribution how are you thinking about FAS/CAS as we go into next year at this point relative to this year? Okay.
So at the beginning of the year given those headcount reductions that we just talked about from combining the sector operations I had a concern that our demographics that went into our initial estimate of FAS/CAS would be light.
And so I essentially hedged what was our pension income for potential demographic changes.
We've now have completed our update the demographics headcount age of the population years of service all of that kind of stuff.
And as it turns out there were some changes in demographics but there were other impacts that offset it.
So the estimate for the FAS/CAS pension difference for the year is $400 million.
Previously I had an estimate of $355 million.
It is essentially finalized in the demographics.
In terms of pension sensitivities we've talked about these in the past but probably needs -- I do need to update them for the impact of the Shipbuilding spends.
So let me just go through those real quick.
For every 25 basis points change in the discount rate either upwards or downwards that's about a $65 million impact to that FAS/CAS difference on a go-forward basis.
Likewise our investment returns for every hundred basis points difference between our long-term rate of return assumption which as you guys know is 8.5%.
So if we were 7.5% or we were at 9.5% of that 100 basis points I'd say $35 million impact to net pension costs on a go-forward basis.
Frankly at this point it's way too early to try to call what 2012 was going to be.
As you know we don't set the discount rate until December 31.
I don't even look at what the discount rate would be today because it's meaningless.
I do look at that sensitivity that we've talked about.
And Sam I think those with that sensitivity you have a perspective on where this could go for next year.
And can I just ask one other question.
In terms of the buyback activity that you had and the agreement for May since some of that actual buyback would occur and move into the third quarter is there any sort of an assumption we should be using about what the ultimate settlement is in Q3? It really is dependent upon actual purchases over time compared to the initial purchase price that was established which was an average cost of $64.17 through June.
You'll see this in the Q when you get to Q.
We're at an average cost of $65.02 as I recall.
So at this point in time if we just bought the rest of the shares at that $65.02 we owe on settlement we would owe about $20 million or about 286 000 shares of stock.
We have the ability the option to sell in either cash or in stock and obviously we'll make those decisions once the program is completed.
Probably in the third quarter sometime here.
I think Crystal that would wrap up our Q&amp;A as we have used up our hour here.
So we'd like to thank everyone for their participation.
And Wes? Yes.
Just again thanks for joining us on the call today.
As we go forward we're going to continue our strategic focus on making sure that we are driving performance with outstanding execution in our company.
As we talked about today shaping our portfolio continues to be an important part of our strategy and of course our capital deployment strategy returning cash to shareholders is also critical to our overall approach to driving EPS improvements over time.
So thanks everyone for your interest in our company.
Thanks again for joining us today.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Anne and I will be your coordinator for today's call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Anne and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
We provide  a supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to safe harbor provision of federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
During today's call we'll discuss third quarter 2011 results our 2011 guidance for continuing operations and 2012 pension trends.
On the call today are our CEO Wes Bush; and our CFO Jim Palmer.
Please go to Slide 3.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Overall we're very pleased with our third quarter results.
We continue to demonstrate that we can generate shareholder value and EPS growth in a challenging environment by focusing on portfolio alignment performance and effective cash deployment.
Our strong operational performance combined with our ongoing share repurchases generated a 23% increase in EPS from continuing operations.
We're particularly pleased with results from the sectors.
All 4 businesses generated strong operating income higher margin rates and healthy-book-to-bill ratios.
During the quarter we repurchased 12.7 million shares bringing total year-to-date repurchases to 28.4 million shares.
At the end of the third quarter $2.4 billion remained on our share repurchase authorization.
Third quarter free cash flow from continuing operations totaled $839 million.
This year through the end of the third quarter we've returned approximately $2 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
New awards were also strong this quarter totaling $7.8 billion for a book-to-bill ratio of nearly 120%.
As of September 30 total backlog was approximately $42 billion.
Based on the strength of this quarter's results we are raising our guidance for EPS from continuing operations.
We now expect 2011 EPS from continuing operations of $6.95 to $7.05 which at the midpoint of the range represents year-over-year EPS growth of 20% before onetime items such as last year's tax benefit and the impact of our 2010 debt tender.
As we've discussed before we continue to make portfolio-shaping decisions and de-emphasize certain business lines.
This includes decisions to exit non-core and underperforming businesses that don't provide attractive financial returns.
Recent examples are the sale of the County of San Diego outsourcing contract and our decision to exit the domestic postal automation business.
These portfolio-shaping actions have contributed to a year-over-year sales decline but have had a very positive impact on our company's performance.
Excluding portfolio-shaping actions full 2011 sales would be 2% to 3% lower than last year due to the market environment.
Our business continues to be impacted by budget uncertainty.
Due to the 6-month continuing resolution process in fiscal year 2011 the potential for an extended continuing resolution fiscal year 2012 and the possibility of further budget reductions our customers continue to be cautious in releasing funds for their activities.
While there is uncertainty regarding future budget levels we believe there is clarity regarding the threat environment and our customers' need for affordability.
With the drawdown of In Theater operations over the next few years we believe the nation will focus on developing affordable solutions to address broader emerging and more capable threats.
In that environment we expect our relatively low exposure to the OCO budget which is about 3% of our sales will benefit us as will our ongoing effort to cost competitively position our company.
We continue to focus on positioning the company to perform in a more constrained environment.
It's more important than ever that we continue to aggressively address our cost structure our operational execution and of course our productivity.
Over the long term we believe C4ISR unmanned cyber and logistics will continue to be priority investment areas for our customers.
This is where a substantial amount of our portfolio is focused and I thought it would be helpful to touch on each area before discussing the sector highlights.
So let me begin with our broad unmanned capability which in addition to fixed wing and rotary vehicles also spans sensors and processing.
In total unmanned currently represents about 10% of total sales and it is growing.
Global Hawk continues to achieve important milestones and improved affordability.
International interest in Global Hawk from our allies continues to grow and we see this capability as an important part of future commerce with our allies.
Our BAMS derivative of Global Hawk is also progressing well.
And the X-47B our unmanned demonstrator for the Navy recently completed a successful demonstration of ship-based software and systems that will play a key role in its ultimate operation from the deck of an aircraft carrier.
We expect continued strong demand for C4ISR capabilities as the global threat profile continues to expand.
Our nation and our allies are increasingly dependent on C4ISR to understand and address these threats and our extensive sensor technology and our processing capabilities are well positioned to support information-gathering efforts.
In Cybersecurity we're working with the defense and intelligence communities to address the rapid proliferation of threats.
We're also successfully migrating tools and solutions developed for the .mil domain into the .gov domain and this represents a significant growth area for our Cyber work.
And in logistics we continue to address the need to maintain and modernize aging equipment upon which our customers will depend as the number of new start programs diminishes.
So now turning to the sectors.
In addition to progress on unmanned programs during the quarter aerospace was awarded a $795 million contract to continue production of E-2D Advanced Hawkeyes under LRIP Lot 3 and to procure long lead materials for Lot 4 aircraft.
We were also awarded a contract modification for an additional Lot 2 aircraft.
In Electronic Systems our data program has made tremendous progress in terms of the system design and development.
G/ATOR is the first AESA-based multi-mission radar for the Marine Corp.
It replaces 5 different legacy radar systems and it's a model for affordability not only in acquisition cost but in savings realized in training and sustainability of a single system.
With several requirements for other new development ground-based radars being considered by the DoD the rapidly maturing G/ATOR system provides a highly capable and affordable alternative.
And in the third quarter ES was awarded a contract to deliver advanced threat warning sensors as the latest upgrade to our Department of Navy Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasure System also known as LAIRCM.
In Information Systems we recently won two key healthcare IT awards.
IS received a centers for Medicare and Medicaid past quarter to develop a system to identify high-risk claims in order to detect and prevent fraud waste and abuse.
And we won the Department of Health and Human Services Encounter Data Processing Systems award.
EDPS will track and aggregate Medicare data to support risk and pricing models.
Both of these awards are aligned with our focus on the higher end high engineering content part of the healthcare IT market.
And our BACN system continues its mission-critical and theater performance.
We've received follow-on awards to extend service continue operations and maintenance and provide essential payload elements for interoperability testing.
And the number of go-forward alternatives for additional variants are also being considered.
Technical Services received an award to modernize the unmanned hunter MQ-5B system to a digital configuration and provide interoperability engineering services for our Army customer.
So in conclusion it was a very strong quarter.
Superior operating execution and effective cash deployment more than offset top line pressure.
We continue to demonstrate that we can create value in an environment of constrained top line growth by focusing on our key priorities: Performance and execution that supports our customers' need for affordability aligning our portfolio with priority areas of customer investment that provide attractive rates of return and effectively deploying our cash.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and our guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Let me start by offering my perspective on our quarterly results which I would characterize as a good strong operating and cash flow result in a challenging environment that continues to put pressure on the top line.
The strong operating performance that I just referred to together with improved net FAS/CAS pension adjustment a lower effective tax rate and ongoing share repurchases combine to generate a 23% increase in earnings per share from continuing operations.
On a pension-adjusted basis earnings per share from continuing operations increased 8%.
Once again operational improvements have offset lower sales with segment operating margin increasing for both the quarter and year-to-date.
All of our businesses executed well.
Operating margin rates expanded in all four sectors and all four sectors generated book-to-bill ratios greater than 1.
Quarterly segment operating margin rate expanded 110 basis points to 11.8% and total operating margin rate expanded 230 basis points to 12.5%.
I would also note that on a pension-adjusted basis our operating margin rate expanded 80 basis points for both the quarter and on a year-to-date basis.
As a result pension-adjusted operating margin rate was 11% for the quarter and 10.9% year-to-date.
Given the focus most of you have had on the top line I thought it was appropriate to spend a few minutes on some of the drivers of our year-over-year sales decline.
There are three principal drivers causing the lower year-over-year sales.
First are the strategic decisions to de-emphasize non-core underperforming businesses that Wes referred to.
Second is the transition to a units of delivery method on the F-35.
And third are the external budget pressures.
Much of the decline in the expected full year year-over-year revenues is driven by our actions to de-emphasize or sell non-core and underperforming businesses.
This includes the reduced participation in the Nevada National Security Site joint venture which accounts for $580 million of reduced revenues on a year-over-year basis as well as about $250 million that results from de-emphasizing several other businesses and contracts.
These include the base operations some base operation support and Technical Services the sale of San Diego outsourcing contract and information services and our decision to exit the domestic postal automation business and electronic systems.
I want to reiterate what Wes said.
It is important to recognize that these portfolio-shaping actions have contributed to the performance improvement we generated both in the third quarter and on a year-to-date basis.
Secondly with the anticipated move away from the cost-type contracting environment for the F-35 program we are transitioning to a units of delivery revenue recognition model with LRIP 5 which will reduce 2011 revenues by about $225 million.
The third factor reducing sales is attributed to the customer spending challenges and budget pressures as well as in theater drawdowns.
The current CR and the impact on the current budget reduction discussions continue to constrain customer spending.
Our prior guidance contemplated some improvement in the funding environment in the second half of year which would have offset some of the portfolio shaping and F-35 impacts that I just discussed.
But with the impact of the on-going deficit discussions and the current continuing resolution for fiscal 2012 I would now expect our fourth quarter revenues to be roughly comparable to this quarter.
So now let me spend a few minutes and walk through the third quarter results for each of the sectors.
In Aerospace Systems third quarter sales declined 5% due to reduced funding for the weather satellite programs and the James Webb Space Telescope program as well as lower volume on several other space programs.
Lower revenue on the F-35 program reflects the revenue recognition transitioning to a units of delivery revenue method from a cost incurred method beginning with LRIP 5.
Rather than recognizing sales as costs are incurred sales will now be recognized as units are delivered.
This is essentially a timing difference which reduced AS sales by about $50 million in the third quarter.
The impact of this timing difference will increase over the next few quarters before it begins to reverse in the second half of 2012.
Despite lower sales AS third quarter operating income was comparable to last year.
Operating margin rate expanded 60 basis points to 11.8% due to improved program performance and somewhat lower amortization of purchase intangibles which were partially offset by a negative performance adjustment on a space program.
Based on year-to-date results we now expect AS sales of $10.6 billion with an operating margin rate in the mid-to-high 11% range.
AS ended the quarter with a total backlog of $18.1 billion which reflects new awards of $27.0 billion the largest being the E-2D award that Wes mentioned.
Book-to-bill for the quarter was about 105% in Aerospace.
Turning to Electronic Systems where sales increased 2% due to higher volume for ISR targeting systems and naval marine systems.
Operating income at ES increased more than 12% and operating margin rate expanded to 15.4%.
Higher operating income and margin rate for the quarter resulted from performance improvements across various programs including the achievement of a cost incentive for a space program and improved performance on an international radar program.
These program performance improvements were partially offset by a $25 million loss provision for a dispute on the Flat Sequencing System Domestic Postal Automation Program which as Wes mentioned we are exiting.
Based on year-to-date results we expect ES sales of approximately $7.4 billion with an operating margin rate in the low 14% range.
ES total backlog at the end of the third quarter was $9.9 billion and reflects new awards at $2.3 billion during the quarter with a book-to-bill ratio of about 120%.
Information Systems had sales decline of about 8% for the quarter primarily due to lower volume for defense and civil systems.
Sales were also impacted by program completions and the sale of County of San Diego outsource contract which had quarterly sales of $32 million in last year's third quarter.
IS also continues to be impacted by the fiscal 2011 continuing resolutions and budget disruptions which reduced funding for existing programs.
As our shortest cycle business budget reductions impact IS sooner than in some of the other areas.
Despite lower sales IS operating income for the quarter was relatively stable and operating margin rate expanded 70 basis points.
The improvement is due to better performance in civil systems including the benefit of the sale of the County of San Diego contract.
Based on year-to-date results I now see IS sales of about $8 billion with an operating margin rate in the low 9% range.
IS ended the quarter with a total backlog of $10.5 billion reflecting new awards at $2.6 billion and a book-to-bill of just over 130%.
Moving to Technical Services third quarter sales declined 22% primarily due to the reduced participation in the Nevada National Security Site joint venture which last year represented sales of $163 million.
Operating income in Technical Services was comparable to last year and operating margin rate increased 170 basis points principally due to the change in the joint venture participation.
Based on year-to-date results we expect TS sales of about $2.6 billion with an operating margin rate of about 8% for the year.
Technical Services ended the quarter with a total backlog at $3.5 billion including new awards of $861 million and a book-to-bill ratio of about 125%.
For the company based on the strength of year-to-date results we now expect a segment operating margin rate in the low 11% range and a total operating margin rate in the high 11% range.
The increase in total operating margin rate reflects the operational improvements we achieved to date and assumption of about $200 million for unallocated corporate expenses and some potential risk items.
Turning to cash through nine months cash provided by continuing operations before discretionary pension contributions is approximately $1.4 billion and free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions is about $1 billion.
So based on our year-to-date results we are on track for our cash guidance for the year.
As Wes mentioned we have increased our guidance for 2011 earnings per share from continuing operations to a range of $6.95 to $7.05 on a per-share basis.
As Slide 4 indicates our increased earnings per share guidance reflects an additional $0.10 to $0.15 for improved operating performance and $0.10 for lower diluted share count.
I now see a reduction in weighted average shares outstanding for the year as slightly more than 6%.
I know many of you are focused on pension trends for 2012 so I wanted to provide an update in this area.
Assuming our current discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on planned assets of 8.5% as well as a host of other assumptions on mortality wage increases et cetera 2012 net FAS/CAS pension adjustment would be comparable to this year's income of about approximately $400 million.
Year-to-date through last Friday estimated planned asset returns are slightly more than 5%.
And as we have discussed last quarter every 100 basis point difference from our 8.5% expected long-term rate of return represents approximately $35 million of FAS expense.
And for the discount rate every 25 basis points variance is about $65 million of FAS expense.
Obviously we don't know exactly where interest rates will end the year but if I were setting the discount rate today my cursory look would suggest a decrease in the range of 25 to maybe 50 basis points from our current rate of 5.75%.
We continue to be very focused on managing the business for superior execution and strong cash generation while effectively deploying cash to create shareholder value.
Included obviously is investing in our business distributing cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends and managing the balance sheet.
Again I'd like to reiterate that year-to-date we distributed approximately $2 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and at the end of the quarter we had $2.4 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
On the balance sheet side we will continue to monitor our pension plan investment performance and cash flow forecast to gauge whether or not we should make another discretionary pension contribution either or later this year or maybe even early next year.
So in conclusion we are pleased with this quarter's results especially the performance from our businesses and we remain focused on generating value through portfolio optimization performance and effective cash deployment.
Steve with that overview I think we're ready for some Q&amp;A.
Thanks Jim.
In the interest of providing everyone an opportunity to ask a question we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one brief follow-on.
Now Anne we're ready to take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wes you've been pretty good at anticipating a bunch of these changes and while you talk about some of your businesses having some growth opportunity how would you characterize really the potential to show revenue growth over the next couple of years? Well it's certainly going to be a more challenging environment.
And so let me give you a little bit of a flavor staring into 2012 as best we can.
And again we're not providing 2012 guidance on this call.
So this is more in the category of flavoring.
I would say beyond that we're just going to have to continue to see how the budget environment shapes up as we go forward.
But I would characterize it this way.
Based on what we know today about 2012 budgets the budgets appear to be heading towards I would say sort of a flat outcome relative to 2011.
In terms of translating that into us we would expect slightly reduced sales in a flattish environment due to the continuing impacts of some of the decisions that we've made.
And these are proactive decisions we've taken on.
One the set of portfolio shaping actions that we've been talking about now for some time as well as what Jim mentioned the change in our approach to accounting on F-35 moving over the units for deliveries.
So when we put those two things together that represents in the range of $450 million to $500 million of downward pressure on our top line for next year.
But I have to add there can be additional changes in the budget environment whether as a result of sequestration or other budget outcomes.
And even though technically those things are targeted to cause changes that would commence out in the 2013 timeframe.
We know from observing our customer behaviors over the course of this year that those changes would likely translate into customer actions in 2012.
So even though I would characterize the 2012 budget environment as being from what we can tell right now rather flattish it all depends on what happens over these coming months with a lot of the budget debate that's going on.
I am encouraged just to balance that out a little bit very encouraged by the strong statements that we're seeing from the national leadership both Secretary of Defense and others in the administration as well as a number of critical Congressional members who are calling for the preservation of a robust national security spending profile.
So that's on the encouraging side of the equation.
But realistically we like most others in our industry are preparing for a range of outcomes to make sure that we stay competitive and that we're positioned to create value irrespective of which way we see this go.
There are meaningful opportunities out there.
And as I went through the perspective on our portfolio unmanned cyber C4ISR and logistics and all of those areas we see priorities for customer investment.
The question is going to be how much capacity do they have to apply towards those priorities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I see that and I mean you also seem to indicate that there is a number of international opportunities that are possible.
Are any of these really close at hand or is this -- I mean as you sort of see it I don't want to talk too much about 2012 either and get you there but if you sort of look at it you don't have a lot of holes to fill for '12.
There's more a potential for opportunity.
Is that the way to think about it? There's always a balance between the negative budget pressures as well again some of the other opportunities.
International is an interesting area.
I've learned a long time ago never try and project the timing on international awards.
There's so many variables involved there.
But there are some very substantial international opportunities on the horizon.
The unmanned -- interest in our unmanned capabilities just continues to grow.
And it will take a little bit of time for all of the policy decisions to be sorted out and the exact decisions on who can buy what.
But I see that as a very meaningful set of opportunities for us.
And just more broadly in the C4ISR profile I also see some very meaningful opportunities for us around the globe in that arena as well.
So yes international will be an important part of our perspective as we think about managing our portfolio going forward.
Projecting the timing is a little difficult.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Access 342.
The question I had was this one general one and one follow-up.
If the sales next year will be down a little bit the book-to-bill all being well above 1 would imply that the duration of that what's being booked now is somewhat longer and that what would be the reconciliation of those two comments? Well we'll have to see how that actually plays out.
What I indicated was some pressure on our top line for next year in terms of the ongoing effects of the portfolio decisions as well as the accounting change on F-35.
I want to be careful in not giving guidance for next year.
We'll think about doing that as we have our call at the end of the fourth quarter.
But your observation is a good one George.
Book-to-bill was strong this quarter.
I think our backlog is holding up nicely and a lot of that is longer-term work.
But it depends on which of the sectors in the company that we're talking about.
AS is usually the longer-term cycle on awards whereas IS and certainly TS are much shorter and ES is somewhere in the middle.
And then just one for Jim.
In the aerospace sector you mentioned there's an unfavorable performance adjustment for a space program.
If you could just quantify that a little bit and then in electronics you gave the number for the Flat Sequencing System but you also said there was some positive adjustments so kind of what is the overall net-net effect in the electronics area? In aerospace the adjustment on the space program was about $18 million negative an adjustment to change our booking assumption related to future on orbit fees.
And then in electronics yes the $25 million adjustment for the dispute around the domestic postal program.
But that was partially offset by positive adjustments more than fully offset actually by $17 million of the cost performance achievement on the SBR's program as well as a $14 million international radar performance improvement.
Net-net ES had positive performance adjustments including those 3 items as well as some other smaller items as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in Information Systems and you've got a very good backlog there now this quarter.
Your margins have been strong.
When you look out this is an area it's shorter cycle.
I think there are a lot of concerns about the federal IT budget environment and there appear to be a lot of competitors trying to move after new starts.
What are you seeing when you look forward both in terms of the competitive environment and in just the general margin and earnings trajectory that one might reasonably expect? Doug let me give you a little bit of a flavor on the environment.
If we look at the top line trajectory in IS over the course of this year it's pretty much in line with what we're seeing across the market.
Interestingly if you dive into it a little bit we have 3 major components of IS.
We have the Intel business the defense business and the Civil business.
Intel and Civil are essentially flat over the course of the year taking into account as Jim mentioned in his remarks the sale of the County of San Diego contract.
The decline that we've seen has been primarily in defense.
And when you analyze what's happening there it is essentially pretty much across the board a very broad array of program activities where we're seeing lower funding levels driven by the customer's behavior as they're dealing with the complexities of their budget environment and all of the challenges that those customers are dealing with.
So I think it's important to understand where we're seeing the effect and how that effect is manifesting.
This is a market where there are a lot of competitors.
When IS goes to market it goes to market often times against four or five competitors.
So there's a lot of competition.
It is a market with a lot of variation as well in terms of how the products and services are offered.
We tend to position towards the higher engineering content side of that marketplace.
And we've got some good competitors out there.
But we continue to see it as an attractive market.
There is a continuing need on the side of the government both the DoD and the intelligence community and the civil community to modernize the systems when it comes to Cybersecurity to better protect the systems.
And overtime to actually put the government in a position of saving money by having more modernized and efficient IT systems.
So it's a meaningful market but certainly a lot of competition.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Are you seeing margin pressure when you look forward with this higher level of competition? We've given a view that I think we continue to see as the right view that a margin rate of around 9% in that business is sustainable.
And I haven't seen anything that would cause us to change that outlook.
So I guess I might -- I would add that if I look at our information services business I characterize it in 2 broad categories maybe 30% 35% 40% that kind of range is services.
The balance let's call it 60% is much more in software development integration hardware integration kind of product if you will product development.
Clearly I think we're seeing greater pressure on the services side potentially.
It's always been characterized by a significant number of competitors and so that's the nature of the business basically.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First of all just more of clarification Jim in reconciling the discount rate 25 to 50 basis points would be where you've snapped the line today.
And I guess I was just trying to reconcile that with 100 basis point drop and the AA corporate and kind of what some of the other industrial companies are looking for more in the 75 to 100 basis point area.
Any thoughts there? Myles our discount rate is developed based on AA bond portfolio exactly matched to the maturities of our pension liabilities.
And so when we have done that in the past the kind of -- and using that model at today's point that gives us roughly 25 to 50 basis points reduction in discount rate.
And at this point it's almost meaningless because as you know we set the rate at the end of the year.
But snapping the line as of September 30 we were looking at about a 25 to 50 basis points decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
The real question is on the F-35.
Lockheed is talking about the expenditure before contracts essentially on the Lot 5.
And I know for you guys Lot 4 I think price point I'm not sure you've finalized that.
Can you give us an update on where you are with both Lot 4 and Lot 5 in terms of desensitizing your pricing.
And also if there's any readthrough implications for you building off of contractor or pre-producing before contract  is offered? Let me take the last piece first.
On LRIP 5 we have at this point I characterize as a $50 million exposure if the program were to be terminated for some reason at this point in time.
So it's something that we're mindful of thoughtful of.
But I think that we'll continue to monitor this as we go through time but it's a really important program as you know for our customers and we just got to come through the negotiations around the contract at the prime level and then we'll get our negotiations I think then shortly after that completed as well.
On LRIP 4 we continue to have conversations.
I think we're pretty well close.
We don't have a final deal as yet but continue to work towards the deal.
And then Myles this is Wes.
Let me add on LRIP 5.
It is really important that this contract gets funded in terms of keeping this pro-bail [ph] production process on track to enable industry and the broad supply chain that supports the industry to enable us to continue to work on affordability.
So there is a direct connection between affordability and getting this thing funded.
And I know that everyone is working hard on that.
We're working to support the process as best we can.
But that is a key factor to keep in mind relative to this program.
Getting LRIP 5 funded is a critical next step.
Research Division</strong> Is there any type of -- I don't know once they drop-dead date but I mean is it just [ph] that gets more painful the further on you go and there's no real drop-dead date though? I think everyone has to think through where we all stand on this.
And the position that I would say broadly industry is taking is we always work with our customer.
Our customers are under great duress right now and we're working hard with our customer.
But we're not in the business of financing these programs.
So there comes a limit in everyone's capacity to deal with that.
So it's something that I would say that there's strong alignment on across the industry and we're working as hard as we can to be supportive of the program but we recognize that we've got to get this thing funded.
Our next question comes from the line of Joseph Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Nice margin performance again this quarter and I wanted to dig into that a little bit from a high level just looking at the segment margins.
It seems that Jim a couple of the revenue points that you pointed out in terms of revenue pressure also are probably helping lift your margins and of course you have good performance as well I'm sure but de-emphasizing the non-core businesses those are certainly lower margin.
And then the budget pressure the new start revenue that is not coming in presumably would've been lower margin revenue.
So is there a way to quantify maybe of the 90 bps improvement year-on-year for the quarter or the 110 year-to-date how much of that is maybe due to those issues? And then really what I'm looking at is going forward if you think about your segment margins next year do you think that these levels are sustainable or do you think that the mix might provide a little bit of pressure as it normalizes? As Wes said and I want to reiterate we're not providing guidance for 2012 at this point.
But at the same time we have commented a number of times that our long-term margin rate objectives for each of the four segments we believe are representative of where those businesses ought to be performing over a long period of time.
We feel comfortable about that even in today's environment.
As far as trying to quantify how much of this year's margin performance improvement is mix or other factors it's very very difficult to do.
Clearly the organization had had an increased focus over the last couple of years frankly on strong execution.
As you know we've been very mindful of being prudent about the types of contracts we take getting contract structured appropriately structured to reflect risk inherent in the type of work that we're performing and ultimately making sure that we have a management team that is strong and focused on delivering the product as well as the margins that were negotiated in the contract.
So I don't think I can really break it down into the elements that you're looking for.
Research Division</strong> It's a tough question I know.
Just as a follow-up on your pension comments Jim in terms of the flat FAS/CAS what is your assumption for each of the components for FAS and for CAS? And I'm specifically trying to divine your year CAS expectations? Actually I don't have that number with me.
But as I recall the CAS cost accounting number doesn't move much on a year-over-year basis from '11 to '12.
I'd have to get back to you on the actual numbers.
But as I recall there's not much improvement change in the cost accounting pension expense from '11 to '12.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to one of your growth areas and you talked about on cyber and General Clapper was commenting a week or two ago about the pressure that we may see on IC budgets and the intelligence community participating in the budget cuts and deficit reduction and I wanted to know I mean this is a part of your business I know that's tough to talk about it but as you think about that growth avenue in the context of that sort of commentary have your expectations there changed at all? What are you seeing there? How are you thinking about that? Is there information in there that we should take notice of? The way characterize it just fairly broadly is kind of in 2 pieces.
One Intel and then more broadly.
On Intel clearly every part of the federal government is going to have to participate in the efforts to work on the budget deficits.
And I think Mr.
Clapper's statements were reflective of that.
That said within each of the budget areas there are going to be priorities and we continue to see cyber as a priority a very high priority because of just the ever-growing recognition of the threat and the ever-growing magnitude of the threat.
So within Intel we continue to see Cyber as a priority.
But the second perspective is the broader perspective which is Cyber for many years had been something that had been largely focused in the Intel and defense communities as the primary concerns around what the threats might be capable of doing with respect to challenging the nation's capabilities.
That is no longer the case.
Clearly Intel and defense continue to be very very concerned and very focused on Cyber.
But that concern has now expanded across the government and even beyond government.
And as I think I mentioned in my opening remarks as we see the concerns migrate from if you will the .mil domain into the .gov domain the need for cyber security and cyber protection is continuing to expand.
So we think this is an important part of our overall portfolio and we do see it as high on the priority list in just about any scenario going forward.
Research Division</strong> So if the IC budget needs to contract but cyber doesn't what is it that has to lose? I mean it seems like a zero sum game to me? Well clearly there will be other aspects of it and I really wouldn't want to go into the other elements of the Intelligence Community budget.
But it will be a portfolio balancing process that the Intelligence Community has to go through to just as the DoD is going through.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just two follow ups in terms of risk issues.
Have you completed your contract with Boeing on the F-18? And secondly given that you took a loss on a postal contract in this quarter are we going to have to see any more losses to get out of this business? Let me take the last one first.
Obviously if we thought there were any more losses that we had to take we would've booked them in the quarter.
Obviously every quarter address the situation.
So it's -- something changes that will be reflected in that quarter's results but kind of based on what we know we got it.
If the environment changes we will address it.
On the F-18 multiyear contract we continue to have negotiations or conversations with Boeing around that contract.
Again we're making progress.
But I would characterize it as signed sealed and delivered at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> And lastly do you have any other contracts? You've mentioned F-35 and F-18 any other contracts where you are a subcontractor where you're kind of working without a finalized contract? I mean obviously not a $10 million job.
But any other large ones of substance? I don't think so.
They key -- I think what you're really trying to get at is where you don't have funding...
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
So for example just because we don't have a contract on F-18 we have funding and are being paid in accordance with normal practices for costs being incurred.
So other than that the comments around the F-35 Lot 5 I can't think of any substantial dollars or contracts that we really have at risk associated with the work that we've already performed.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob  Spingarn of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the bookings this goes back to George's question and Wes I think you did acknowledge that the -- very strong quarter here of course.
But the earlier quarters were a little lighter.
What are you thinking for December? Was this driven by the year end for the federal budget? We generally don't guide on awards and so I wouldn't want to get into the habit of doing that.
Third quarter is often times a stronger awards quarter particularly in IS where we've got a little bit more of the short-term stuff.
However I would say this year has not been a typical year by any stretch of the imagination with the effects of the continuing resolutions both last year the 2011 CR and the prospect of a longer CR here in 2012.
So I wouldn't try and use my average year comparisons for this year because things have been quite a bit in flux.
So we'll see how we do in the fourth quarter.
We are working that aggressively working it hard of course to make sure that our backlog continues to be a healthy position for the company.
But when I look at how we're doing competitively which is kind of how it comes out ultimately I'm pleased with how we're doing competitively.
I think we're doing quite a good job in capturing the work that we're going after when I look at it in a broad sense across the company.
And if we can continue to do that I think we'll do just fine.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on a cash return to shareholder basis you've been very good about buying back stock and using your portfolio-shaping opportunities to do that and a long history there.
Are you thinking at all about shifting the stock repurchase alignment against the dividend and perhaps favoring the dividend going forward? There seems to be a trend there.
Rob we continued to as I said with the $2.4 billion remaining authorization for share repurchases we liked the balanced approach that we've had over the frankly since we started share repurchases in 2003.
And I'd just point out that since 2003 through the end of the third quarter cash return to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends is from round numbers 100% of free cash flow on an aggregate basis through that period of time.
I don't see much change in continuing to emphasize both share repurchases and dividends.
We obviously view dividends as very important and as a long-term commitment to our shareholders.
So we look at both the competitive payout ratios as well as using other cash to be able to purchase the stock when prices are we find attractive.
Research Division</strong> But would you see any value perhaps in having a higher dividend yield given what some of your peers have done in order to send that message on your long-term confidence? You mentioned yield.
I am not a yield-focused guy.
I can get yield up by having a stock price decline.
I am a payout-focused guy.
We are as a company think about it in that term and we think that we have competitive payout ratios.
Our next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wes I want to turn back to this F-35 issue and explore it just a little bit more.
And I admit I'm a little confused by your comments about being encouraged by strong statements from leaders.
Could we share a thought on record talking about being willing to break glass in the industry and going through this Should-Cost review.
Should we take this to mean that the Should-Cost review is going to be confined to the F-35 or I guess I'm just a little worried that this is a canary in the coal mine.
My commentary with respect to strong statements by leaders with respect to the robustness of national security spending and the view that the Secretary of Defense and as I think I mentioned others in the administration as well as some senior leaders on Capitol Hill have been very public in expressing over these last number of weeks that it's imperative that even though we've got to all work hard in deficit reduction we have to protect the national security.
And I see that as very very encouraging.
With respect to the implementation of the variety of initiatives under way in the Pentagon I do think this Should-Cost methodology is a broad methodology that is intended to be applied in a variety of different circumstances.
I wouldn't know how to project what the full breadth of that application might be.
But it's something that I do think we'll see an increasing amount.
It remains to be seen what that translates into for contract outcomes.
Obviously the government the department needs a set of methodologies to make its determination of value and cost and contracts.
But there's always somebody else at the table in this industry.
The industry also has to make its determination of what we're willing to do how far we're willing to go in terms of the risk side of the equation; and what reasonable profitability opportunity needs to be on those contracts.
So it's not one-sided.
It's two-sided.
And we have to be able to work hard to get our way through this.
So I would say there is probably a little bit more tension in the system right now around how all this is going to work what the real outcomes are going to be.
But we're going to have to pop through it.
Research Division</strong> All right and then a follow-up.
You and I have had discussions about how you're shaping Northrop and keeping what you see ahead you've been obviously divesting in a thoughtful and disciplined way.
Should we expect to see as we look ahead a pickup in M&amp;A activity? It will always for us come down to value creation.
And I will say in watching some of the recent M&amp;A activity it's been a little hard for me to figure out how with multiples getting paid we actually generate a lot of value.
And so when we're looking at really high multiple transaction multiples out there it's probably not the first place we go for value creation but we do look.
We are engaged.
We have not closed down our M&amp;A department.
It's an important part of the long-term vitality of any organization to be engaged in bringing in capabilities.
I've said a number of times and I still am on the same mind that I don't see any big gaping holes in our portfolio today.
So there's not a strategic urgency that we're feeling around.
We've got to go by this capability or we got to go by that capability.
But we are thinking about it in a broad way thinking about the future of the industry and where the industry may shape out here in a different environment.
And I think you should expect us to be thoughtful but disciplined as we get into this process.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
Then if not then we'd see more focus on share repo and dividends as usual? We've had a long track record of doing that.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on the use of cash Jim you had mentioned thinking about a discretionary pension payment in the fourth quarter of this year into next year.
Just how do you weigh that just because obviously with the pressures you're going to see from the FAS side going into next year how do you weigh that relative to buybacks or dividends? As I mentioned I will look at both investment performance in the plan and then our cash flow expected results for the year as well as into next year.
As you know our history in the pension plan has been to generate a nice returns in excess of our long-term rate of return of 8.5%.
And so pension contributions in which you get a tax deduction and then generate those kind of returns that we've had in a historical basis is a very very good use of cash.
Cash on cash returns on a historical basis in excess of 12%.
So the balance of both wanting to make sure that our plan is very well-funded returning cash to shareholders as I mentioned.
And so it's really a balancing activity around the effective use or deployment of our cash.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just in general it sounds like what you've been saying is that the areas that impacted you in the second quarter in terms of a slow recovery from the end of the continuing resolution that the customer behavior really has not changed over the course of the third quarter.
Or has it actually gotten a little bit worse in terms of the time it takes for them to give you task orders et cetera? I would characterize it as an overall about the same.
In some areas it's a little bit better.
In some areas others as I mentioned in my comments we thought that there may have been some additional funding on certain programs that would've allowed us to offset some of the other declines that we had anticipated for example the F-35 change in revenue recognition model.
So on an overall basis I'd characterize it as about the same.
LLC Research Division</strong> One last question is for Wes or either of you are there any key orders or bigger orders that we should be thinking about like an LRIP 4 F-35 stands out when those come in? But is there anything else that we should be thinking about that's big over the next six months or so? There's a whole variety of things that are out there.
No one in particular is make or break.
But I've mentioned a few of them already.
Maybe just to give you a little bit of a flavor across some of the businesses.
In AS unmanned continues to be an important area for us both domestically and increasingly international.
The UAE the airborne surveillance program is an important in AS.
And over the longer term U-class is a program that we're certainly putting a lot of attention and focus on but that's a little bit longer term.
In ES I would point out the CIRCM program as the Army IRCM program that's outcoming.
The Air Force is working on upgrades to F-16.
I think that's going to be an important part of it and the Navy's pursuing new class of radar and the call it air and missile defense radar AMDR.
That's an important side of future opportunities there.
In IS CANES on the Navy side is coming in the not-too-distant future I believe and I've already talked a lot about the cyber work and the different dimensions of that.
Ground Combat Vehicle where we're partnered with BAE systems is another very important program.
We'll see how that matures and what the timing of that might eventually turn out to be.
And technical services has a whole variety of both sustainment and upgrade activities that it is out competing in the not too distant future.
The whole company is actively engaged in opportunities and pursuing them aggressively.
Anne this is Steve.
I think we have time for one more question.
Our last question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Wes you described your exposure to OCO at around 3%.
Does that reflect the $200 million impact you've already seen this year or is that prior to that? And the 3% or so you do have left how do you expect that to kind of come down here with obviously what's going on in Iraq and the drawdown in Afghanistan? That is the overall 3% is kind of 2 different pieces.
One piece of it has been BACN.
BACN was an important component of the OCO business.
And how BACN transitions overtime does it find its way into the base budget or not we'll have to see.
It's been very very successful in theater and there has been a growing view of its longer-term importance.
So hard to tell how that piece of it goes.
The other pieces of it are lots of different programs.
We talked on the second quarter about VIS it was an important part of it.
There was a huge push over the course of last year on VIS to get it deployed in the theater on all kinds of different vehicles.
So this year's sales have come down substantially on VIS.
But the remainder of that is just a whole variety of programs that are providing individual pieces.
LAIRCM has also benefited from some of the OCO funding.
So it's a little bit hard to tell with the planning in Afghanistan exactly which pieces of it come out at what time.
But again it's a fairly distributed set of elements across our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> As a follow-up based on your guidance you're calling for a lower Q4 in terms of earnings.
I think this might partially have to do with higher corporate expense.
Jim maybe if you can just give some color around that and maybe talk longer-term the outlook for corporate.
It seems to keep coming in lower than what you're guiding to.
David I know in the fourth quarter that we've taken some actions already in the fourth quarter some headcount reduction actions.
And so that will be somewhat of a drag in the fourth quarter.
And there are a couple of things in the corporate and allocated world that at least have a potential to occur in the fourth quarter so all of those have been considered or factored into our thinking around the fourth quarter results.
And that concludes our Q&amp;A.
Wes any final comments? Yes.
I guess just to summarize.
I would say our strong third quarter results demonstrate that our continuing focus on performance portfolio optimization and cash deployment to benefit our shareholders is creating value for our company and positioning us well for what is going to be a more challenging environment.
So thanks again everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in our company.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Erin and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I will now turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Erin and welcome to Northrop Grumman's fourth quarter and year-end 2011 conference call.
We provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
On the call today are our CEO Wes Bush; and our CFO Jim Palmer.
Please go to Slide 3.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
I'll start this morning by first reviewing our 2011 results then I'll address our outlook for 2012.
Fourth quarter and full year results for 2011 were outstanding.
They demonstrate that our focus on performance portfolio alignment and effective cash deployment continues to create value.
Despite the challenging top line environment we delivered strong results by nearly every measure.
Segment and total operating margin earnings per share cash from operations and free cash flow all were higher than our 2010 results.
Our team continues to build on our strong record of program execution and performance which is essential to meeting our customer needs for affordable high-quality products and services.
I'm very proud of how our team has come together these last several years to really drive performance improvements in our business.
Achieving these improvements has required some tough decisions across our company but these efforts have positioned us to be successful well into the future.
Turning to our results fourth quarter earnings from continuing operations more than doubled to $2.09 per share and for the year earnings per share from continuing operations increased 17% to $7.41.
Segment operating income rose in both periods.
For the quarter segment margin rate increased 100 basis points to 11.9%.
And for 2011 segment margin rate expanded 90 basis points to 11.6%.
Pension adjusted operating income also increased for both periods.
And for 2011 our total operating margin rate adjusted for net FAS/CAS pension expanded 90 basis points over 2010 to 10.9%.
Cash from operations and free cash flow were outstanding for both the quarter and the year.
Before discretionary pension contributions 2011 cash from operations totaled nearly $3 billion and free cash flow totaled $2.5 billion.
For the year conversion of earnings from continuing operations to free cash flow before the effect of discretionary pension contributions was 120%.
Our strong cash flow and the $1.4 billion Huntington Ingalls spin-off contribution allowed us to return substantial cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
In total we spent $2.3 billion to repurchase more than 40 million shares and at year-end approximately $1.7 billion remained on our share repurchase authorization.
We also raised our quarterly dividend by 6.4% last May our eighth consecutive annual increase.
And we paid our shareholders $543 million in dividends in 2011.
Through share repurchases and dividends we returned cash of $2.8 billion to our shareholders in 2011 150% of our free cash flow from continuing operations.
And through the Huntington Ingalls spin-off we distributed an additional $1.8 billion of equity value to our shareholders.
During the quarter new business awards totaled $7.1 billion a book-to-bill ratio of 109%.
For the year new business awards totaled $25.3 billion a book-to-bill ratio of 96%.
We ended the year with a total backlog of nearly $40 billion.
Looking ahead we remain focused on aligning our cost structure with our customer's affordability and efficiency objectives.
Actions to date to support affordability have included consolidating business units across the enterprise reducing overhead in our operating businesses restructuring our debt to reduce interest expense streamlining our corporate office and redesigning our benefit plans.
Looking ahead for this year we expect 2012 earnings per share from continuing operations of $6.40 to $6.70.
Our 2012 guidance calls for sales of $24.7 billion to $25.4 billion double-digit segment and total operating margin rates cash from operations of $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion and free cash flow of $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion.
Let me focus for a moment on our top line guidance.
As we discussed in our third quarter call our 2012 sales outlook includes about a $500 million impact from our portfolio shaping and the adoption of units of delivery accounting for the F-35 LRIP 5.
In addition approximately $1 billion in revenue reduction is driven by changes in a number of our large programs including the DWSS termination the transition from F/A-18 multiyear 2 to multiyear 3 the wind down of B-2 upgrade programs lower in-theater sales and lower ICBM volume.
Beyond that we expect growth of about 2% in our core portfolio which brings us up to the top end of the range.
This includes continuing growth in our Cyber business and unmanned programs such as BAMS Fire Scout and Navy UCAS.
From there our guidance considers a range of uncertainty that recognizes the potential for additional program changes resulting from budget decisions and timing issues such as potential award delays the pace of in-theater troop drawdowns and potential continuing resolution funding for the 2013 budget.
We see this range of uncertainty representing up to about 3% of sales off the top end of the range.
Based on Secretary Panetta's outline of our nation's new strategic security direction we believe we are well-aligned with the priority investment areas to support a smaller more agile technologically advanced security force.
We expect about 75% of 2012 sales to come from our 4 strategic focus markets: C4ISR Unmanned Systems Cybersecurity and logistics plus our business focused on manned strike aircraft.
While we were generally encouraged by the elements of the defense budget discussed by Secretary Panetta last week including continuing support for our Global Hawk Block 40 system the Navy's BAMS program and other Unmanned Systems such as Fire Scout and Navy UCAS we were disappointed by the Air Force plan to cancel the Block 30 program on Global Hawk.
We will be working with the Pentagon to assess alternatives to Block 30 termination that will ensure a more cost-effective transition into production for the other programs that are based on Global Hawk.
Aside from Global Hawk Block 30 the elements of the President's budget introduced last week demonstrate an increasing alignment between Northrop Grumman's core capabilities and priority areas of customer investment.
Overall it validates the portfolio shaping we've done over the last several years to increase our focus on C4ISR Unmanned Systems and Cybersecurity and it also supports some of our long-standing core competencies in space and of course long-range strike.
Cyber both defensive and offensive is one of the budget areas that is expected to increase.
The DoD also expressed a strong commitment to the new bomber as a critical component of our nation's ability to project power in denied environments.
The budget also protected funding for space systems including the Space-based Infrared System and the advanced extremely high-frequency communication system.
Both are programs in which we participate.
And sea-based unmanned ISR systems such as our Fire Scout were specifically cited for increased investment.
We also view this military strategy as supportive of our efforts to market our products internationally so that our allies can build their capacity to more effectively play an increasing role in global security.
We expect the 2013 budget process will be long and contentious with another continuing resolution likely as the administration and Congress balance the need for fiscal restraint with the need to protect against a wide range of national security threats.
It's unclear how the issue of sequestration will be resolved but we certainly share Secretary Panetta's view that the budget cuts mandated as a result of the failure of the Super Committee would seriously endanger national security.
Despite these uncertainties in our environment our 2011 results demonstrated that we are building a high-performing portfolio that aligns well with our customers' priority investment areas.
Our leading capabilities in these areas will be essential to securing our national interest for the smaller more agile force structure and reduced defense budgets.
We have a diversified government customer base that includes substantial exposure to the Air Force the Navy and restricted customers and we provided a slide that depicts our estimated 2012 revenue by customer.
In conclusion creating shareholder value in this environment means that we must continue to be absolutely focused on our key priorities driving performance effectively deploying our cash and optimizing our portfolio for the future.
Our record these past few years demonstrates this view successfully and I'm delighted to be working with our company's talented team to create long-term sustained value.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My comments will focus on our 2011 results and then 2012 guidance.
But first I'd like to reiterate Wes' comments relating to 2011 results which in my view were outstanding.
We again challenged our team to significantly step up performance and they did delivering higher earnings and converting those earnings into strong cash flow all done in a challenging environment.
Turning to the Sectors on Slide 5 Aerospace Systems had a strong finish to the year with solid sales and higher operating income.
AS margin rate expanded 60 basis points to 12.1% from 11.5% in the prior year through a combination of improved performance on several programs and lower purchased intangible amortization.
Now we are also doing some additional portfolio realignment in Aerospace and as of January 1 of 2012 the Missile business principally the ICBM program will transfer from Aerospace Systems to Technical Services.
Schedule 6 of the earnings release provides a reconciliation of historical results and results adjusted for that transfer.
So with that adjustment AS has 2011 sales of about $10 billion.
And based on what we know today regarding our programs we would expect Aerospace 2012 revenues to range between $9.7 billion and $10 billion with low to mid 11% margin rates.
Estimated 2012 sales reflect higher volume for programs like Fire Scout and E-2D Advanced Hawkeye which are being offset by the DWSS termination lower F-18 volume during the multiyear 3 start up and declining volume across the number of other programs.
Electronic Systems 2011 sales declined 3%.
Force reductions and overseas contingency operations reduced volume for programs like LAIRCM and the Vehicular Intercommunication Systems or VIS.
We also had lower domestic postal automation sales as we began to deemphasize that business in '11 in 2011.
Operating income in 2011 increased 5% and margin rate expanded 110 basis points to 14.5%.
The 2011 trends reflect improved program performance and positive adjustments for several programs in our Land &amp; Self Protection business and our ISR business.
2011 was particularly strong due to positive performance adjustments on mature programs and programs nearing completion.
For 2012 we expect modest decline in ES revenues to a range of $6.9 billion to $7.2 billion reflecting the deemphasis of the domestic postal automation business and continued troop drawdowns that will impact programs like VIS the Lightweight Laser Designator Rangefinder and some of our C4ISR networking for the Army.
We expect ES to continue its strong performance with margin rates in the mid to high 13% range exceeding our long-term guidance target of 13%.
Information Systems 2011 sales reflect lower volume in our -- in civil agencies and our Defense businesses including reduced funding for existing programs and program completion.
As our shortest cycle business IS has most been impacted by our customers' cautious spending in this uncertain budget environment.
Operating income on the other hand improved by about 1% and IS margin rate expanded 70 basis points to 9.7% for the year.
The higher margin rate reflects improved performance in civil programs including the impact of the County of San Diego contract sale both of which more than offset the impact of lower sales.
For 2012 we expect IS sales of $7.4 billion to $7.6 billion due to lower volume for in-theater programs like the Command Post Platform and FBCB 2 I Kits lower civil revenues resulting from the 2011 sale of the San Diego contract which contributed $50 million of revenue in 2011 and then just the overall budget uncertainty.
Due to their improving business mix however we expect IS will sustain much of the margin rate improvement that we saw in 2011 so we are forecasting a mid-9% margin rate for IS in 2012.
Moving to Technical Services 2011 sales declined 16% but operating income increased by 5%.
Margin rate expanded 160 basis points to 8%.
These results reflect the impact of the reduction in the participation in the Nevada Test Site program as well as portfolio-shaping actions to reduce our exposure to base operations programs.
For 2012 we expect sales of $2.6 billion to $2.7 billion which reflects our continued portfolio-shaping actions the addition of the Missile Systems business at volumes that are about $100 million less than what we saw in 2011 due to the wind down of a major hardware upgrade program in the Missile business as well as lower KC-10 volume and lower volume for several other programs.
We expect Technical Services 2000 [2012] rate will be in the mid-8% range reflecting the improving business mix the transfer of the Missile business from AS and just overall performance.
Now our 2012 margin rate expectations for all 4 of our business exceed our long-term target rates for each of the 4 businesses which as you know are 11% for Aerospace 13% for Electronic Systems 9% for Information Systems and 8% for Technical Services.
Moving to Slide 6 a summary of our 2012 guidance Wes discussed the impacts of 2012 sales and how we establish our guidance.
So I'm going to move on to the balance of the chart.
On a consolidated basis we expect the sectors to generate a segment margin rate of about 11% and we expect a total operating margin rate in the mid- to high 10% range which reflects a positive net FAS/CAS pension adjustment of approximately $130 million and corporate unallocated expenses comparable to 2011.
Earnings from continuing operations are expected to range between $6.40 and $6.70 per share.
We expect cash from operations of $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion and free cash flow of $1.8 million to $2.1 billion.
And again we expect that cash flow will be weighted towards the second half of the year as has been our historical pattern.
I would note that we are currently not planning any discretionary pension contribution in 2012 and that our required 2012 pension contributions are about $65 million.
I should point out that in the fourth quarter of 2011 we made an additional $500 million discretionary pension contribution bringing our total 2011 discretionary contributions to $1 billion.
Slide 7 provides a bridge or walk between 2011 earnings per share and our 2012 guidance.
Lower sales had an impact that ranges between $0.30 and $0.45 and lower segment margin rate accounted for another 35% -- to $0.30 to $0.35 of the variance.
Our net FAS/CAS pension adjustment for 2012 is declining from a positive adjustment of $400 million in 2011 to a positive adjustment of $130 million which impacts 2012 earnings per share by about $0.65.
2012 net FAS/CAS adjustment is based on our plan asset returns of about 6.5% in 2011 a 75 basis point reduction in the discount rate to 5% from 5.75% last year and a 25 basis point reduction in our expected long-term rate of return to 8.25% from the 8.5% that we previously had used.
The net pension adjustment also reflects a planned design change that reduces both FAS and CAS cost in 2012.
That design change takes out significant future cost thereby improving our competitiveness and affordability.
This is an example of how we are adjusting our cost structure in response to our customer's need for affordability.
I would also point out that even with the 75 basis point reduction in the discount rate the funded status of all of our plans at year end was 88% on a GAAP basis.
2012 earnings per share assumes a tax rate of 34.25% about a $0.15 impact due to the expiration of the research and development tax credit.
And lastly our guidance includes continued capital deployment activities that result in a decrease in the weighted average shares outstanding of about 9%.
This reflects our lower share count at the beginning of the year due to the substantial 2011 share repurchases the issuance of shares in 2012 for incentive compensation and stock option exercises and anticipated 2012 share repurchases.
The lower share count positively impacts 2012 earnings per share ranging from $0.60 to $0.65.
In summary we continue to expect solid performance from our businesses in 2012 with margin rates that exceed our long-term targets and continued strong cash flow.
So Steve with that introduction I think we're ready for some Q&amp;A.
Thanks Jim.
Erin we are ready to start the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in Information Systems and in the quarter your backlog was down about 18%.
And could you talk about where you're seeing the decline in the backlog across Defense Systems Intelligence Systems and Civil? And where you think that's going to go longer-term? And I ask that specifically because with the strong position in Cyber and some other priority areas one might expect some strength there.
But can you talk about the subsegment trends? Doug the reduction that you're seeing in Information Systems backlog is principally due to the adjustment we made across the portfolio but largely concentrated in Information Systems around our future expectation for amounts remaining on contract to be converted into future sales.
And so we went through a process this year that looked at amounts that were put under contract for which the period of performance had largely expired and there'd been very little activity.
So on one hand there was amounts remaining on backlog but it just felt like to us that in the current environment they may not be converted in the future sales.
And so we made a -- an adjustment or a reserve against some of that backlog to reflect our view that some of that may not be realized as future sales.
So that's the largest adjustment.
Let me give you a little bit of flavor Doug too by some of the business areas.
If you just look at our progress over last year in terms of awards in the business we're doing quite well.
And the 3 components that you mentioned Civil Defense and Intel civil's about 20% of the top line defense is about 50% and Intel is about 30% just very rough numbers for the makeup of the business.
And as you might imagine we are seeing some pressure on the Defense side in particular and Jim mentioned that in his commentary with some of the changes relative to the needs in theater the defense area is where the majority of that work has been performed for in-theater support.
But when we strip that piece of it away your earlier comment about our position on Cyber which plays through actually all 3 of those areas puts us in a place where we think that this business is quite well-positioned for the future.
So we're not overly wringing our hands around either the component makeup of the business or how we're doing in the business calendar.
But Jim's point was a very important one about if you just look at that total backlog number it reflects a very specific set of decisions we made this year in terms of our convention for reporting the backlog.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And that decision -- but that decision is essentially made to reflect some of the trends that are -- that I would say are weaker going forward I assume.
I know this was largely a thought process.
There's a lot of different conventions for reporting backlog that we see in our industry.
There are those who report their future expectations towards the awarded on task orders for ID/IQs for which they've qualified.
We don't do that.
There is -- there are sort of a standard convention for one's you've captured an award it goes into backlog and stays there unless terminated or other action is taken.
We've gone through I think a really rigorous process of going through a scrub that Jim mentioned that we think is appropriate given the environment but most of that cleanup was not necessarily a reflection of just this past year's decision.
Or even 2010.
That's right.
It's more of a look long-term look back on the clean up that we felt was appropriate in light of all of the pressures that we see our customers facing.
So it would be inappropriate to read that as an indicator of the success of the business in either capturing awards or at least over the last couple of years and fulfilling those awards.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Well then is there a point here from what you described about declines in certain areas such as those related to current overseas operations? You see declines in certain areas you see growth in others.
Is there a point where you're really seeing the transition where you expect this will turn around in terms of a top line trend? It's hard to call that over the longer term.
We're guiding for this year.
I think we're going to learn a lot by looking at the details of the President's budget that's due out here over the next couple of weeks the details of the '13 budget to see how that all parses out into the pieces.
But I wouldn't want to be in a spot of trying to call it in terms of where that begins to turn around.
Obviously a big factor in that will be the transition of the overseas deployments.
And how that actually plays out I would say there's still some uncertainty surrounding that.
And your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to sort of ask one -- make one comment and then ask a question that's probably totally fair Wes.
The comment first is I like the presentation that Jim does with respect to pension contributions after cash -- after taxes rather.
Most people don't do that so I think that's a very good and fair and balanced true-up approach and I appreciate that.
That's good.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The other question or the question is we measure kind of performance on earnings per share and you're going to have down results for this upcoming year.
And while I recognize if we look at the free cash flow yield for this upcoming year it's call it 13% give or take a little bit.
So on one measure great number going forward.
On another measure it's not really value-creating.
How do you square that Wes and how do you think a little bit longer term on this challenge of growing earnings? Yes clearly there's a couple of components to it and I think it's a very fair question Howard.
The pressures on the top line are the reality.
That's the budget environment that we're in.
It is imperative on us to make sure that our portfolio is very well-aligned as best we possibly can.
And part of the reason for that extra chart that we included in the presentation today the little pie chart was to help you help everyone make their own assessment of how well they think that is aligned.
We think it's a good alignment but we wanted to provide a little bit more detail in the way we see our portfolio.
And everyone can certainly make their own assessment of that.
So focusing on the alignment to really manage our way through the budget pressures is very important.
But the other really big lever I would point out too there are very big levers in this process are how well we're actually executing on the business.
And we look at that I think most perceptively in terms of margin rate and cash conversion.
The margin rates are going very well.
We've made a lot of progress in our company these last several years and delivering more effectively on the opportunity that's inherent in the contracts.
That goes to risk management that goes just good old downright program execution and it also goes to cost management.
And those are all areas that we've taken on very aggressively and we are seeing the benefits translate into EPS.
And then I mentioned of course free cash flow converting earnings into cash.
If you can't do that then it's sort of empty to start with.
And then on the backside of that what you actually do with a cash.
So when we think about value creation and because I think that was inherently the essence of your question from my perspective it means getting the best alignment with where things are going so that we can manage our way through the budget pressures it means executing very very effectively so that we're generating good earnings and we're converting those earnings into good cash and that means being very smart about what we're doing with that cash.
That's the way we're thinking about the value equation in our company.
And your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a question about pensions so you have contributions of $65 million required and yet kind of by what you said it looks like you're underfunded by about $2.8 billion and the government's writing you checks for $500 million.
So essentially pension is the cash flow plus on a pretax basis of over $400 million.
So is that sustainable cash flow? I mean if we look to the future are you going to have to put more money in either this year in the future or is the CAS going to come down so that your free cash flow that you're talking about this year in a steady-state environment is going to erode? Actually Cai good questions.
Frankly my view would be over the foreseeable future CAS costs are actually going to go up largely because CAS amortizes what we all remember as the significant negative investment performance in 2008 over 15 years.
So we're just beginning to -- on the front end of that amortization process CAS costs likely are going up.
You have the benefit of CAS harmonization that it will be stepped in over the next 5 years as well.
So on a look-forward basis I think we all would see CAS costs large largely going up now to the extent that we have really great investment performance over the next couple of years.
Again that would be amortized over that 15-year period on a go-forward basis.
So those are all offsets.
I do think that as I said CAS costs go up over the next few years looking forward.
You are correct that if we don't make any voluntary contributions this year we do have a cash flow benefit that comes from essentially recognizing the past actions we've taken to fund the plant -- plan ourselves ahead of when we got reimbursed for the CAS cost.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then does that mean in the future your -- if CAS is going up your cash contributions also will have to go up or how will that work? That -- so as I think many of you know we have 3 sets of different rules that we have to deal with.
And essentially cash contributions are governed by the ERISA rules and PTA funding.
And they -- the cash contributions required there are a function of how well-funded you are.
And again at our 88% funding on a GAAP basis on an ERISA-funded basis we're close to 100%.
In fact you really have to look at every plan itself but when we do that our ERISA funding for purposes of cash contributions the lowest funded plan is probably in the 95% range and some of them are well over 100%.
But on an aggregate basis just about 100% funded.
So and again that ERISA funding is a function of how well-funded you are under that ERISA determination with a big factor being interest rates and they use a different set of interest rates that we need to use for FAS purposes or for CAS purposes.
So I know that's a long-winded answer but different set of rules but it is affected by how well-funded your plans are to begin with.
So we have a huge step up in that regard and then interest rates pay -- play a factor as well.
And your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Jim on the segment margins you indicated that in each of the segments they're expected to run this year at slightly above your projected long-term average.
And I was wondering if you could maybe characterize at a high-level why you think you're going to be able to sustain that this year.
It is down about 60 basis points off of a great performance in 2011 but maybe something around mix is the mix more favorable? And also I would imagine that you are probably spending some money below -- in there somewhere around restructuring given the sales declines.
And that's probably negatively impacting you.
So some color there would be helpful.
Yes well we are -- it's true Joe that we're spending some money on restructuring.
We try to manage our overall overhead rates to accommodate that.
But it's also very important to get out in front of those activities so that you don't have a negative impact on your programs.
And so there's a delicate balance there.
It is costing us some in terms of the efforts that we need to undertake to restructure.
And in -- on terms of just margin rates overall we do have some programs transitioning from one to another.
I'll point to F-18 multiyear 2 to multiyear 3.
So a mature program mature finishing production to although a mature product on the front end of the new development or new production of the multiyear 3 contract.
So we have instances like that across the board.
And as I pointed out in my prepared comments the Electronic Systems guys had just a fabulous year in 2011.
Margin rates well above what I view as the target for that industry.
I do expect that they're going to maintain some of that momentum but I don't think they can maintain all of that momentum that we saw in 2011.
So that's why you see their margin rates essentially declining from let's call it around 14.5% in 2011 to the mid-13s that we guided to for our mid to high 13s that we guided to for 2012.
Research Division</strong> And from a mix standpoint just thinking through what one more level maybe you're cutting it certainly differently.
From a mix standpoint would you characterize domestic versus international as consistent with the long-term trend and then also maybe fixed price versus cost plus or mature versus R&amp;D-oriented? I don't know Joe that there's a significant shift in the overall mix.
Our fixed-price content of the aggregate portfolio on a year-over-year basis.
So I think it is much more as we're seeing some decline in the revenue base.
Programs that are nearing completion that are mature having reduced volume on a go-forward basis.
And so that's reflected in some reduction in margin rates.
Essentially you have to absorb more cost with a lower volume on the remaining programs.
And your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe to go back to Cai's question for a second Jim on pension and then we'll move over to the operations.
On the funding side ERISA 100% today but I think that's more of an ABO basis.
As you look out when did the required contribution start to more tie back to the 88% funded status? So is it '14 is it '15? And are those sizes kind of in the $300 million to $500 million range? Yes all of -- you're asking for this huge crystal ball that has perfect clarity.
So let me give you a perfect clarity answer.
Obviously it's going to depend on investment earnings in '12 and '13.
It's going to depend on interest rates in '12 and '13.
But if I were able to hold all of everything constant and achieve my long-term investment rate of return I would be looking at contributions required contributions in the 2013 timeframe of around $300 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay great that's -- I think that clarifies it.
And then on the operations I think the NRO surprisingly publicly stated a couple of weeks ago they were going to award the follow-on imaging satellite sole source to Lockheed this year.
I think you guys are payload for that.
I'm curious 2 things.
One is would that be a booking sizable in 2012 and second would be a source of growth in '13 or beyond? Myles I think we will refer you to the NRO to get the best response to that question.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Doug touched on the backlog decline in IS and you went through that in detail.
But from a higher level could you talk about the 12% decline year on year in total backlog and the unfunded piece of that is fairly significant.
And you're -- and now your total backlog both funded and unfunded as a ratio of sales has come down quite significantly over the last few years.
So is this timing-related or do we have a -- is there a bookings issue coming? I don't think so Rob.
So let me try to review again what went on in backlog.
First as Wes said in his comments $25.3 billion of awards this year roughly equal to sales.
Let's start there.
So we did have some backlog adjustments.
We had this reserve that I talked about that aggregated about $3 billion across the portfolio but largely in IS.
In addition to that we did have a restructuring of the NPOESS contract and another a couple of other space contracts where we took $1.5 billion of backlog out of backlog at the beginning of the year to reflect the cancellation of the NPOESS contract and then some change in some space programs.
If you want you can go back and look and as I recall in the second quarter when we disclosed that.
And then in the first quarter last year with the decision to reduce our participation in the Nevada Test Site joint venture we took the backlog that was -- because we're no longer consolidating sales we no longer consolidate the backlog and we took $1.7 billion out of the backlog to reflect that.
Those are the 3 principal unusual activities if you want to call it that that occurred in backlog during the year.
Research Division</strong> Is there a way for you Jim to quantify the duration of the backlog today versus what it used to be? The best way that I would do it is to take each of the amounts for the 4 sectors and divide by revenues and that is kind of a rough approximation.
Obviously the IS the shorter cycle business has a lower backlog to sales ratio than any of the other segments of the business.
Research Division</strong> And then just one other thing we've heard from some of your peers on foreign military sales orders being pulled forward into the fourth quarter here and out of Q1.
Anything there for you in that sense? I think the foreign market is an opportunity for us on a go-forward basis.
I think the Secretary's comments are encouraging.
Obviously we have to work through export control issues.
But there is a demand or interest in a number of our products across the portfolio.
And just logically as U.S.
defense budgets are constrained it would seem that we would want to rely on our allies to do what we may have done in the past.
So I think that is ultimately an opportunity for us in a go-forward basis.
All right Rob you were asking about some pull forwards out of potentially this quarter into the last quarter of last year.
Is that -- Research Division</strong> Only because we've seen it elsewhere.
I -- we didn't -- we did not see anything unusual in that regard in our company.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just lastly Jim I might've missed this because I joined the call late but in terms of your buyback for '12 which was like about 8% something like that rough number what's the cadence on that? How are you assuming that goes forward? Generally spread throughout the year consistent with largely our historical practice.
So I wouldn't say it's exactly ratable through the year but spread throughout the year.
And your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim can I go back to pension one more time and can you talk a little bit about what that design change means? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Did you change the benefits? What did that mean? We essentially put a cap on what is called final average earnings for the people who participated or partly participates in the defined benefit plan so that after a point in time final average earnings will not continue to grow which essentially reduces the liability on a long-term basis reduces cost starting in 2012 and going forward.
Rather it was important that we do that.
We got a significant cost benefit out of it and essentially got our plans into what we thought was current market conditions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does that mean there's a liability is peaking now as well? The liability is dramatically affected as we saw by the change in discount rates.
So if you tell me what discount rates are going to be then I guess I can tell you whether it's peaked or not.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay all right that's fair.
And then separately can you just talk a little about Global Hawk Wes? You mentioned about the Block 30 termination.
Can you just talk about how the Block 30 to 40 transitions? And obviously I'm not expecting you to give me total Global Hawk sales but can you just talk about directionally in percentages how it looked from '10 to '11 then '11 to '12 as we're seeing some of those pieces? Well let me just say in terms of this transition that's something that we're -- we are beginning the discussions with our customer community around.
There's an important set of transitions from the production work we're doing on Block 30 certainly with Block 40 but also in the BAMS.
And it would not be appropriate for me to get out in front of those discussions that we're having with our customer in that regard.
I would say naturally that we were as I said in my comments earlier we were disappointed with the plan on Block 30 but we were also at the same time very very pleased with the very strong statement of support that we got from the Department on BAMS and of course Block 40 and a number of our other unmanned missions including Fire Scout.
So I don't want to get out ahead of exactly how this will play out.
We want to obviously work with the Department to make this work the right way.
With respect to the numbers I would just simply say that we spent some time thinking about the range of outcomes and that's included in the range of the guidance that we provided.
And your next question comes from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jim at Aerospace Systems a lot of moving pieces there in terms of F-35 and the transition of the Missiles business.
Can you just walk through all the different moving pieces and roughly how much they each account for? And then on F-35 just an update in terms of exactly where you stand what's under contract at this point and what LRIP you're delivering on at this point? So let me grab a couple of things here David.
We had 10.1 10.4 for revenues this year.
The Missile business takes us down the transition of that business takes us down to about 10 as I've said in my comments.
And then as we look at some of the other parts of the business that are moving around we saw some growth in Fire Scout and E-2D.
The DWSS contract termination reduces revenues by about $200 million.
And the lower volume on F-18 is probably about another $150 million or so.
So all of those and then consideration as Wes said to what may happen or when something may happen on Global Hawk Block 30 allowed us to get to our thoughts around $9.7 billion to $10 billion of sales guidance for 2012.
But those are the big pieces that moved from year to year.
Research Division</strong> And on F-35 units of delivery how much is that impact? It's about $100 million.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up on the share repurchase the 8% assumption or the 8% down in terms of the assumption on share count it doesn't look like based on where you are at the end of the fourth quarter.
It doesn't look like you're actually assuming that much more additional in terms of share repurchase for 2012.
Well actually I said 9%.
I guess someone else had said 8%.
And as I said in my prepared comments you start at the beginning share counts.
We're going to issue some shares here through stock incentive plans at the end of February.
We anticipate as been the historical practice that we'll have stock options that are exercised during the year and then we're going to spend some money during the year as well to buy back shares.
You got to remember that the share count is based on a weighted average share count.
So you spend a dollar in January it counts as let's say if you bought it -- spend $1 that was 1 share.
That counts as 1 share.
If you spend that dollar in December it counts as $1.12 for this weighted average share count.
So the timing of when you spend the money when you buy shares back is really important to its overall impact on the weighted average shares outstanding for the year.
And as I said to an earlier comment my assumption is that we spend the dollars not exactly ratable but generally spread throughout the year.
So those are the moving parts that get us to an -- about an overall 9% decline in weighted average shares.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim I was wondering first of all if you could give us a number for what your OCO or operations exposure was in 2011 and where you see that trending in '12.
We had hard to quantify but as we go and look at -- try to find all the pieces we think it's about 3% of sales.
LLC Research Division</strong> And where is that heading in '12? Because you mentioned that there's a headwind in a couple of areas.
Well we see a couple of hundred million dollars down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then secondly there's a lot of goodwill on the balance sheet.
I was wondering if you've done a year end sort of impairment review on that valuation and how close some of the goodwill items were to a write-down.
Obviously we have to do that every year.
It's part of the normal procedures.
We have let's call it a little bit over $12 billion.
And if you look at the financials the largest part of that goodwill is in the Information Services business.
And so we do take a good hard look at all of our assumptions around that.
We're comfortable that there's not an impairment as of the end of the year.
We'll have to watch what happens in terms of the future revenues and all of that associated with the overall budget what it means to each of the businesses.
But as I said with the Information Services having the largest piece of the goodwill if there's any area that might have any exposure it would likely be in that area.
All right? Erin I think we have enough time for one more.
And your last question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask the capital deployment question and get some updated thoughts from you there.
Obviously you've got a pretty balanced approach up to this point between dividends and share repurchases.
I'm just curious what you think going forward clearly on the acquisition front.
I don't mean to necessarily get into the details about where you want to make acquisitions but just the importance of acquisitions going forward.
Now Jason in terms of -- broadly on thinking about acquisitions for us it always comes down to the value creation equation.
I said a number of times and I continue to say it we really like our portfolio.
and I don't feel like we have large gaping holes that we got to rush out and deal with.
So it allows us to be very thoughtful very disciplined in how we think about acquisitions.
At the same time we do engage in looking at a wide angle of alternatives we think we have an obligation certainly to our shareholders for the long-term to be active in our thought process and active portfolio managers.
Yes but ultimately it comes down to value creation.
And I will tell you that of late as we've looked at what's going on in the M&amp;A space there are some transactions out there that would be hard for us to solve the equation on value creation if we were looking at it ourselves.
So we have biased our cash deployment towards the areas that we talked about the share repurchase and dividend.
And I think that's been serving us quite well.
But we're going to continue to look and the market obviously will have some ebbs and flows and we will be effective assessors of what those opportunities will be.
Thank you very much.
Now that concludes our call.
Wes has a couple of follow-up comments to close and then I'm obviously available for additional questions.
Now let me just wrap up with a few thoughts.
I think it's helpful given the dynamics of the environment we're in to stress some fundamentals.
When I think about our company and I mentioned this during my remarks and in response to a couple of questions.
I think there are 3 things that are really critical.
First in a time of increasing pressure in our top line it's even more important that our businesses are delivering on profitability in cash conversion across all of our operations and I think we've demonstrated some nice improvements over the last few years.
It shows that this focus is paying off for us.
And secondly the large amount of capital that's returning that we are returning to our shareholders demonstrates our focus on delivering shareholder value.
And that is the way that we are thinking about the overall value equation in our company.
And thirdly as we've talked about a fair amount of portfolio shaping is going to continue to be key in this emerging environment making sure that we're well aligned for the future.
When I think about it a little bit more broadly and look at the world around us right now it's clear that our nation's military strategy is going to continue to depend both on the extraordinary capability of our servicemen and women as well as our ability to ensure absolute technological superiority.
And the strategy recognizes that we will have to address a range of threats to our nation's security.
We think we're well-positioned to deliver that technological superiority to support our nation and our allies.
We expect a lot of turmoil in the budget environment in front of us especially over the course of this year.
But I think it's going to be really important as we go through that to keep these fundamentals in focus.
Thanks again for joining us today and thanks for your continued interest in our company.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dienna and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thanks Dienna and welcome to Northrop Grumman's first quarter 2012 conference call.
We provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation which you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
On the call today are our Chairman and CEO Wes Bush; and our CFO Jim Palmer.
At this time please go to Slide 3.
And I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
All right.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone.
Things for joining us.
We're very pleased with this quarter's results.
We're off to a strong start for the year in a challenging environment.
It's rewarding to see the positive results being generated by our team's continued focus on performance affordability and efficiency.
As we've mentioned on our last few calls we've been working hard across the company to reduce costs and improve productivity and those efforts are continuing to pay off in terms of our financial results and our performance for our customers.
First quarter earnings per share from continuing operations rose 17% to $1.96 and on a pension-adjusted basis earnings per share rose 31%.
EPS growth for the quarter reflects improved performance across all 4 of our businesses as well as the positive impact of our share repurchases.
Despite lower sales 3 of our 4 businesses posted higher operating income and all 4 sectors generated higher margin rates.
Electronic Systems and Information Systems had particularly strong quarters.
As a result our segment operating income increased 9% and our segment margin rate increased 200 basis points to 12.7%.
During the quarter we repurchased 4.4 million shares of our common stock for approximately $260 million.
We plan to continue executing a balanced cash deployment strategy that includes returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Historically our return of cash to shareholders has been weighted towards share repurchases and we don't have any plans to change our practice.
Our 2012 EPS guidance assumes a reduction in weighted average shares outstanding of approximately 9%.
We consider our dividend a long-term commitment to shareholders and we evaluate our dividend as a payout ratio of pension-adjusted earnings.
Maintaining a competitive dividend payout in line with our industry continues to be our focus.
Now I'll provide a top level of our first quarter performance and then Jim will provide some additional details.
First quarter sales of $6.2 billion are consistent with our expectations and support our guidance for the year.
Our sales outlook assumes a continuing resolution of the fourth quarter but does not contemplate extraordinary customer actions in anticipation of potential sequestration.
As we discussed last quarter in providing a 2012 guidance our portfolio-shaping actions and the adoption of units of delivery revenue recognition on F-35 LRIP 5 will reduce year-over-year sales by approximately $500 million; and changes to a number of our programs including fewer F/A-18 deliveries as we transition from multiyear 2 to multiyear 3; cancellation of NPOESS DWSS; lower volume for B-2 and Joint STARS modernization programs; lower in-theater sales; and lower ICBM volume will have an aggregate impact of approximately $1 billion on 2012 sales.
Together these factors reduced our first quarter sales by approximately $450 million with F-35 representing about $90 million of that impact.
We expect sales to be more heavily weighted toward the second half of the year as F-35 LRIP 5 deliveries are expected to begin in the third quarter.
New business awards in the quarter totaled $5.8 billion a book-to-bill ratio of 94%.
We ended the quarter with total backlog of $39.1 billion down slightly from year end but a satisfactory result given program award delays.
Notable follow-on awards for AS include $919 million for the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye and $289 million for the F-35.
ES received an $88 million FMS award for F-16 fire control radars for several foreign countries and was also awarded $332 million for LAIRCM.
TS received $100 million contract to continue supporting the Army's 3-core Mission Command Training Center.
Information Systems was awarded $122 million follow-on award for Counter-Rocket Artillery and Mortar systems.
Over the last 2 quarters IS also has won several important competitions.
These include CANES a program to consolidate and modernize the U.S.
Navy shipboard network systems to improve operational effectiveness and affordability across the fleet the ground combat vehicle C4ISR suite and the Air and Space Operations Center Weapons Systems Modernization Program called AOC WS.
AOC WS is the Air Force's command and control center for planning executing and assessing joint air operations during a contingency or conflict.
These captures along with the ground missile defense team award represent future potential awards and revenue in the billions of dollars for Information Systems.
They also demonstrate that our C4ISR domain knowledge coupled with SBIR is a growing competitive discriminator.
These wins demonstrate our ability to apply our deep domain knowledge and differentiating technologies in innovative ways to produce affordable lower-cost solutions that address multiple threats or have a multiplier effect on mission capability.
In today's budget environment our customers are leaning away from expensive exquisite solutions.
They are generally seeking the lowest-cost technically acceptable solutions and our ability to innovate in combination with our discriminating technology and competitive cost structure has provided a real competitive advantage.
Based on the strength of this quarter's results we are raising our 2012 EPS guidance to a range of $6.70 to $6.95.
Higher 2012 EPS guidance principally reflects this quarter's exceptional operating performance and is supported by an increase in our expected segment operating margin rate to the mid-11% level.
I would reiterate that we remain focused on positioning the company for an increasingly competitive and challenging environment.
Deficit reduction is a critical national priority.
We expect a significant amount of debate and dialogue regarding how the defense budgets will be impacted by deficit-reduction actions.
While the outcome of that debate remains uncertain we are formulating contingency plans for the possibility of sequestration occurring in January 2013.
I want to be clear that the implementation of sequestration as presently mandated could have a very serious negative impact on our company our industry and of course on the defense capacity of our nation.
In this environment our challenge is to continue to anticipate our customers' needs aggressively address our cost structure and continue to improve our operational execution and affordability.
We continue to take actions across the company to improve our competitive position.
And while customer spending is being impacted by budget uncertainty we continue to see demand in our core integrated C4ISR Unmanned Systems Cybersecurity and logistics markets.
We believe these capabilities will continue to be vital to global and national security.
We also believe that we can continue to create value for our shareholders even in an environment of constrained top line growth by focusing on our key priorities: driving performance deploying cash effectively and optimizing our portfolio.
This quarter's results continue to demonstrate the success of that strategy.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of our results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
I'll provide a little bit more detail on our first quarter results which obviously are a great start to the year.
The highlights for the quarter were the 12.7% segment operating margin rate which combined with our share repurchases generated a 31% increase in pension-adjusted earnings per share an outstanding quarter.
Strong operating performance more than offset the impact of lower sales a lower net FAS/CAS pension adjustment and higher corporate unallocated expenses.
On an absolute basis even with $71 million lower net FAS/CAS pension adjustment total operating income was roughly comparable to last year and the operating margin rate increased 80 basis points to 12.8%.
Pension-adjusted operating margin increased 8% and pension-adjusted operating margin rate increased 180 basis points to 12.3%.
For the quarter we had a lower tax rate due to higher manufacturing deductions and somewhat higher other income reflecting positive first quarter returns on assets related to some of our nonqualified benefit plans.
And finally weighted average shares outstanding are 13% lower due to our share repurchases.
Cash results for the quarter were as expected and reflect higher working capital and higher income tax payments.
And as we said last quarter we expect cash to be heavily weighted towards the second half of the year as is our typical pattern.
We are maintaining our guidance of $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion of cash from operations and $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion of free cash flow for the year.
Turning to the sectors.
Aerospace Systems.
Sales declined $210 million or 8% while operating income declined 3% due to the lower volume and operating margin rate expanded 60 basis points due to improved performance.
Adoption of the units of delivery revenue recognition for F-35 LRIP 5 impacted sales in the quarter by approximately $90 million and the NPOESS cancellation impacted quarterly sales by about $40 million.
F-18 volume was lower due to 3 fewer deliveries than in the prior year.
And B-2 and Joint STARS volume declined as modernization efforts on those platforms tapered off slightly.
Lower volume for these programs were more than offset by higher sales for the E-2D and our unmanned programs.
For the year we continue to expect AS sales in the range of $9.7 billion to $10 billion and based on first quarter performance we are now expecting a mid-11% margin rate for AS an increase from our prior guidance of low to mid-11%.
AS 2012 will be somewhat back end loaded due to timing of F-35 LRIP 5 deliveries.
For the entire company F-35 sales in 2012 will be about $1 billion.
That amount includes F-35 volume for AS IS and ES with most of the sales being recognized at AS.
Our guidance assumes about 1/3 of those sales will be recognized in the first half of the year and the balance or 2/3 in the second half of the year.
Electronic Systems saw sales decline by $84 million or 5% primarily due to a $90 million decline in post-automation volume largely reflecting the final delivery of systems under the Flats Sequencing Systems contract with the U.S.
Postal Service and our decision to deemphasize the domestic postal automation business going forward.
Despite lower sales ES operating income increased $67 million or 28% and their margin rate for the quarter was 17.6%.
ES recognized a higher level of favorable adjustments on their contracts for the mitigation of contract risk including adjustments for contracts completing or nearing completion than in the prior year.
While none of these adjustments were material on an individual contract basis in total they increased first quarter operating income by about $60 million.
The quarter's results also reflect risk-mitigation and cost-reduction actions that favorably impacted fixed price contracts which are a substantial portion of ES business.
While we expect the positive impact of our contract risk management process and cost-reduction and affordability initiatives to continue we don't expect a repeat of this quarter's unusually high level of positive contract adjustments at ES.
For the year we continue to expect ES revenue of $6.9 billion to $7.2 billion and we are increasing our margin rate guidance from the mid to high 13% range to the mid-14% range.
This guidance reflects a margin rate in the mid-13% for the balance of the year.
Information Systems had sales decline of $181 million or 9%.
The sale of San Diego contract cancellation of JTRS AMF and in-theater drawdowns impacted sales by about $100 million with the balance of the decline reflecting general market softening due to the uncertainty of the budget environment and the shorter cycle nature of our IS business.
Operating income at IS increased 6% and margin rate expanded 150 basis points to 11.1%.
Favorable performance on several civil systems programs as well as cost reductions from affordability initiatives more than offset the impact of the lower volume.
For the year we continue to expect sales of $7.4 billion to $7.6 billion for the IS business with an operating margin rate in the mid-9% range.
I should also note that last week we sold the Park Air Norway business a business that is focused on civil air traffic management and that divestiture will impact IS 2012 sales by about $50 million obviously contemplated in our guidance for the year.
But also note that IS had a 3% increase in backlog with new business awards during the quarter representing 115% book-to-bill ratio.
Finally for Technical Services first quarter sales declined $81 million or 10%.
The deemphasis of some of our base and range operations and lower ICBM volume impacted sales by about $50 million and the KC-10 volume was about $25 million lower than last year.
Operating margin rate expanded 110 basis points to 9.3% due to the improved performance for several programs including the KC-10 program.
For the year we continue to expect TS sales at $2.6 billion to $2.7 billion probably closer to the high end of $2.7 billion with a mid-8% operating margin rate.
So on a consolidated basis our 2012 sales guidance remains at $24.7 billion to $25.4 billion.
And based on the first quarter performance we are increasing our segment operating margin rate guidance to mid-11% from approximately 11% previously.
Total operating margin rate guidance has increased to the low 11% range from mid- to high 10%.
As we will disclose in our 10-Q filing later today first quarter net cume catch-up adjustments were $121 million greater than in the prior year period.
The improvement results from our risk management process and affordability initiatives across the company.
Individually none of the contract adjustments were material.
Our 2012 EPS guidance assumes $130 million of net FAS/CAS pension income a tax rate of approximately 33.75% compared with our prior assumption of 34.25% reflecting the higher level of manufacturing deductions in the first quarter but not assuming an extension of the R&amp;D tax credit.
So now with 2012 guidance out of the way let me spend a few minutes and talk about a subject that I think is near and dear to many of you 2013 pension expense and the resulting net FAS/CAS pension adjustment for that year and then some of the key assumptions or sensitivities on those amounts.
Holding the discount rate constant and assuming we achieve the expected long-term rate of return on our plan assets our estimated 2013 net FAS pension adjustment would be income of about $250 million.
It reflects about $590 million of CAS expense obviously the difference being FAS expense.
And of course actual results will likely vary and we can't really predict what's going to happen with discount rates which is as you know one of the key variables.
So talking about some of those sensitivities.
A 25 basis point change in the discount rate would have an impact of about $75 million on 2013 costs whereas 100 basis point variation around our long-term expected rate of return which is 8.25% has an impact of about $40 million.
And I should point out at the end of the first quarter our return on our pension plan assets was in the 5% range.
And finally I want to spend a few minutes on cash.
In the 10-K we disclosed an estimated 2013 mandatory cash contribution of about $300 million.
I should point out that this estimate is based on many assumptions including the PPA interest rates in effect at that point at the beginning of the year.
I think some of you may know that those rates change every month so the actual amount will in all likelihood be different than that estimate.
So let me just conclude my comments by saying that the first quarter results demonstrated just outstanding operational performance.
As Wes said we remain focused on generating shareholder value through performance improvement effective cash deployment and portfolio optimization.
And Steve with that I think we're ready for some questions.
Thanks Jim.
[Operator Instructions] So Dienna at this time we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Joe Nadol JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Jim thanks for the expanded commentary this quarter.
My question is on the Electronic segment where you had those great margins and I heard in your comments -- your intro comments.
Just wondering if you could -- if we could dive in there a little bit and if you give us maybe a sense of at this point the sales mix there from an international versus domestic standpoint fixed price versus cost plus and I guess I don't know if there's a way to quantify the maturity level of those.
Maybe give us a sense as to whether this kind of performance can recur.
Joe I don't think there's any change in this quarter in the overall mix of the business or the international versus domestic content of the business.
As I said in my comments we continue to work really hard on our risk management process and affordability initiatives the roughly $60 million of cume catch-up adjustments that I've highlighted in my comments were spread across a number of contracts about15 contracts none of which were individually significant.
So I just -- it's just real good blocking and tackling and managing the business.
And Joe I would add if you look at our projection for the year for Electronics it basically suggests that the remainder of the year will be operating closer to the rates that Jim has talked about extensively in the past.
Research Division</strong> And then for my follow-up Wes you mentioned in your intro comments in the environment and sequestration I was wondering if you could maybe expand on that a little bit.
Specifically it sounds like DoD is going to have to start planning for sequestration this summer or at least early fall.
Doesn't sound like the political process is going to enable a solution to this if we get one until after the election in November.
So what are you doing more specifically to prepare for this? And how are you thinking about this with your guidance and the fact that the sales profile is pretty evenly spread even picking up a little bit towards the end of the year? Well as I said our guidance does not anticipate that our customer community would take any extraordinary actions at the end of the year.
Should they do so obviously that could be an impact to us and everybody in our industry.
I think to put this in a broader context my sense of the situation is those on the Hill that are putting some time and energy into this are thinking about it very responsibly.
They recognize that allowing sequestration to occur would simply have a devastating impact on the ability of the Department of Defense and other government agencies to support the security of our country.
And it would have clearly a very negative impact on the defense industrial base.
And so there is a lot of discussion a lot of debate around how to deal with this ugly situation now.
Despite all of those good intentions as you point out we are in election year and I think the general view is it's going to be hard to see something meaningful happen in advance of the election.
So calling it now on exactly how that's going to come out is difficult and because it's difficult to call it everyone that's on the receiving end of this including our customer community and ourselves are sort of forced into the situation of having to plan contingency plans for the possibility of this very terrible thing actually happening.
So that's what we're doing from our side of the equation here in our company.
We're thinking through if this would actually get triggered how would we respond.
And that has a number of dimensions.
It has a number of dimensions on the contractual side and it certainly has a number of dimensions on all of the components of the operations within our company.
So it's not just a broad brush.
It's work our way through it step at a time.
And I think part of the challenge and I'm sure you've heard others in our industry speak on this that probably no one in government can be prepared for if sequestration is actually implemented as is currently mandated the department will have actually little discretion on many things that it has to do with respect to the line item budgets.
Translating that into contract actions is going to be very very difficult and the response that industry will have to provide on those contract actions will I think throw the department into great turmoil and result in bills being sent in for actions on contracts that no one has planned for.
So this whole idea that this was supposed to be a so terrible of an outcome that would force Congress to not go there I hope that turns out to be the case because the consequences are very substantial.
But we are as I'm sure others in our industry are doing getting ready so that we can respond to that effectively do it in a way that hopefully helps our customers work their way through it but also protects the integrity as much as we can in that situation the integrity of our ability to perform our mission.
It's a fairly comprehensive process.
And the next question comes from the line of Doug Harned Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> You had several cancellations in the 2013 budget and some delays strictly in the Aerospace side.
But when I look at your results now you're maintaining guidance there.
Backlog looks reasonably good.
Have you -- were you surprised by some things that some things would they have led you to lower your outlook a little bit either this year or I'd say next year? Doug it's Wes.
I would say that going into the year as we were formulating our guidance we do what I think you should expect of us which is to look at the whole array of possible outcomes from a budgeting perspective and really think our way through that in our guidance.
And so I think if you look at how the outcomes are abounded and once we actually did see the President's budget it fit pretty well within the range that we expected.
So we don't like all of those outcomes of course and as you know there are many of them that we are working very diligently with our broad customer community to address.
But so far I think what we're seeing works with the guidance that we gave.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then within Aerospace if you look at unmanned as we exit Afghanistan -- there'll be changes to unmanned missions.
We've seen some -- also changes in the -- even the decision to go with the U-2 instead of Global Hawk based on costs.
It looks like there are changes in the requirements of how they're thinking about them for the Navy UCLASS competition.
Are you -- how are you looking at unmanned right now as a whole portfolio? I mean I think of you as the leaders in this space but are you watching -- are you seeing shifts in it and the need to change anything about your strategy in that area? Doug I would say when we look at the military strategy that the Department of Defense and in fact the President went over to DoD and himself introduced the new military strategy at the beginning of the year when you go through that very carefully it's clear that the range of missions that will be the priorities as we go forward and Asia Pacific gets a lot of attention in that regard and deservedly so but if you look at the full range of missions that the need for unmanned capability from our perspective is going to continue to grow.
It is clearly the wave of the future.
We'll go through some bumps of implementation and acceptance if you will in terms of which missions get translated over to unmanned on what time line.
But I don't think there's anything that actually over time will hold that back.
It is clearly the most efficient and I would say cost-efficient as well to address one of the points you made before ways of doing a mission.
It represents a much more manageable risk profile for the country.
And just from a pure technological superiority perspective with respect to our long-term defense aspirations as a nation unmanned is the right answer.
So we continue to see this as a very robust business.
We continue to invest in it to ensure that we maintain our strength in this marketplace.
And we really like the breadth of our portfolio ranging from some very small little unmanned vehicles that we produce up through the rotary-wing capabilities to medium class and all the way up to the full scale Global Hawk and then BAMS.
And when you look at even the ongoing discussions around the Global Hawk platform and its derivative on the Navy side the strength of the commitment particularly by the Navy BAMS I think reinforces our perspective.
And the next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First Wes -- maybe they're related.
First Wes could you talk about how -- when we look at the proxy what we find is that your -- the named executive officers have a market-adjusted compensation basis and it sure seems as if it's impacting some of the decisions.
Could you sort of -- that you're taking with respect to portfolio optimization and so on could you take a moment to talk about that? Howard I want to make sure I answer the question you have and I'm not sure I understood it.
The market-adjusted basis for? Inc.
Research Division</strong> As I read the proxy as I understand it in addition to just merely meeting the goals that the board asks of you or the guidance in addition to that your -- there's an overlay that I think adjusts some the named executives officers' compensation to market returns of the entire group.
So you have to not only make your numbers you have to beat your peers.
Could you talk about that in a context of portfolio optimization and other actions you've taken? Okay I get it.
I think that's kind of 2 perspectives.
One is as we set the annual goals for our performance we do market benchmarking on those.
And I think you've heard me describe before as we have been focusing on our performance within our company we don't want to just be grading ourselves against ourselves in terms of performance improvement against where we've been.
We really want to be measuring ourselves against the marketplace which is what of course all of those who are thinking about holding our shares are doing.
And so that is something we go through on an annual basis.
We look very carefully at market performance and we set our targets on that basis.
This has been a little bit of a change and most companies or many companies set their annual targets based on their plan.
And that is I'm sure a very good discipline in many respects.
For us it was my view and the view of the board and quite frankly the view of our leadership team that that wasn't just the way we wanted to look at it.
We really wanted to hold ourselves accountable to perhaps a little bit higher standard.
So on an annual basis we take a hard look at each of the metrics both our financial and our nonfinancial metrics as well.
We do a lot of benchmarking to make sure we have a good sense of where we are and where we want to go and we drive our metrics on that basis.
The other piece of this is also on a long-term basis and you may also be referring to that.
Our performance shares that are the grants to our officers and our company have a component to them that is measured on TSR.
And of course that's a relative measure against a couple of different benchmarks that we have in the industry.
So the whole idea here is if we're committed to improving it needs to be improving relative to how the marketplace is doing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I get it.
That sort of talks to it.
And then just in terms of can you maybe cite an example or 2 of -- I mean obviously maybe the tanker a year ago is deciding that you didn't want 0 margin businesses as part of the portfolio was one example but can you cite something today or a couple of instances today where that's the goal -- the objective is being translated into action.
Well yes.
I think it drives thinking across the whole array of decisions that we make as a leadership team.
Clearly we've been doing a lot of work on portfolio shaping across our portfolio.
Some of that has been I would say more strategic in nature with respect to what actually fits and where there's real synergy.
But some of it has been around what businesses do we really want to be in if we're not able to get the returns out of them that we expect of the investments we make and obviously we think our shareholders should expect.
So whether it's our decisions to whether to bid or not bid on a particular contract or our decision as to whether we want to be in a business or not be in a business we're -- quite frankly when we're looking at making our asset investments internally we have that same mindset as well in that regard.
So it's comprehensive.
As everyone knows when you create a way of measuring within a company you're basically deciding what it is you value.
And people respond to that good people respond to that and I'm proud of our team.
The next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes it's about your dividend.
Your GAAP -- your pension-adjusted earnings based on your guidance look relatively level this year.
Your dividend currently is $2 and I guess normally you'd review it at the middle of next month.
So can you give us a little bit more color in terms of should we assume therefore the dividend doesn't increase? Or maybe give us a little bit more color in terms of how you think of your dividend in light of your overall cash deployment? Well Cai as I mentioned in my remarks dividend is very very important to us.
We do treat it as a long-term commitment to our shareholders and we think about it very carefully.
And your right in with respect to our timing we normally go through this kind of in the May time frame.
I don't want to be in a position of getting ahead of that discussion that we're going to have.
That's a discussion that's not complete within the company yet certainly not with the board and we're going to go through that when we get together.
But as I said in my remarks we do like the relative weighting towards share repurchase that we've had in the past.
I think that has served us well.
And our guidance this year contemplates a reduction in shares outstanding about 9%.
So -- and that's all sort of to give you a little bit of illumination in our thinking.
But as a company we I think established a good solid track record of looking at our dividend each year and having some movement in our dividend.
So as I said I don't want to get ahead of the discussion but that's kind of a reflection of our history and our thinking.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then one for Jim.
You've mentioned the $300 million in potential required pension contributions next year.
What does that imply regarding CAS harmonization and/or the transportation funding bill that would basically relax ERISA funding requirements? As I said first of all CAS harmonization has nothing to do with funding.
How much we have to fund in their plan it's all based on the PPA rates.
If we -- and I'm aware of of potential for a relaxation around those rates I would expect that if we do see legislation to relax that would move towards a longer-term view of those rates rather than essentially what is a average over the last 24 months in the current PPA legislation or rules.
So all of that should result assuming we get that relaxation in a lower required contribution in 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Wes just going back to the dividend and understanding what you just said which is that that's an upcoming discussion and you don't want to get too far ahead of that.
But when you talk about the ratio and I look at the historical increases that are I think in the mid- to high single digits in terms of percent terms over the last 3 or 4 years that leaves you a little bit below the peer leaders in the group.
And I wondered if you could comment within -- in that context where you'd like to be relative to those guys or if it's better to be just at the average of the overall group which is about where you are.
Well it's part of the discussion that we go through each year.
And I said you can kind of look back at our history and see where that's come out in the past.
But I really -- I think I've said all I have to say on that one given that we're kind of in the middle of thinking our way through it.
So we'll have more to say obviously once we get to a decision on it.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough fair enough.
Obviously it's an important topic here for everybody.
Jim a question for you.
You mentioned that the adjustments in Electronic Systems and I suppose perhaps this is elsewhere were they were numerous and they were fairly small.
I think you said 15 in Electronic Systems.
But how could we quantify the largest of those either there or perhaps in one of the other segments.
Were there any that were approaching perhaps the $10 million level? Rob again as I said none of them were in my view material.
I mentioned the $60 million that was made up of about 15 contracts.
Frankly if we look at the whole cume catch-up adjustment process there's probably hundreds maybe even thousand contracts that are adjusted every quarter.
So I stand by my comments.
I just don't think that any of them were individually significant and the team has been real disciplined in the management process the risk management process.
And don't lose sight of the importance of the affordability initiatives that we have undertaken that has an impact on our forward margin overhead rates which are important element of the operating performance in each individual contract.
It is really essentially doing what you are supposed to do in managing your business.
Research Division</strong> Well maybe this leads to a larger question either for you or for Wes which is this trend seems to have really taken on some momentum for Northrop and for others in that there's more margin here than there was before and maybe it's the specter of what's coming down the pike from a top line perspective.
But perhaps you can comment on what it is that is enabling you and others to improve profitability at such a level today relative to a few years back.
I'm going to go back to Wes' answer to Howard's comments.
We have really focused our team around managing the business being prudent managers of the risk in the business and driving the organization incentivizing the compensation of the organization to be well aligned with those management objectives.
And we have the hearts and minds of the team.
And we're really working hard on that overall risk management process and it's a difficult environment.
It's getting increasingly difficult as we go through the last couple of years.
But our team has really responded well.
Research Division</strong> Wes do you have any comment on how long you can drive this process? Do you run out of headroom? Well I would also reflect back on our discussions on sustainable margin rates.
When we look at the future and quite frankly that's informed by the past as well broadly across industry we talked a lot about the sustainable rates that we expect that we can be achieving in each of our businesses.
We've not changed any of those perspectives in our discussions.
And as we go through the process of managing the risk out of individual programs we will find places and opportunities where we see these nice opportunities to recognize that risk mitigation.
One of our biggest activities in our company that's underway for a number of years was to really drive an increased level of discipline in the decisions we make getting into the contracts.
And so as we're able to trim out of our portfolio either through managing the risk out of it or actually deciding not to take on some contracts that don't have as good a return opportunity that clearly has helped us.
And if you look back over the last 3 or 4 years that's helped us a lot in terms of our performance level.
But if your question is really more forward-looking I think the descriptions that we've used around the sustainable margin rates that are sort of inherent in the businesses assuming that we're operating them effectively it's a good way of thinking about our company.
The next question comes from the line of Myles Walton Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> As you get closer to the end of the year and the potential for sequestration Wes you talked about some of the contingencies.
But I'm curious intra- year are we going to start to see behavioral shifts at you and the industry to kind of protect yourself? And what kind of moves whether that's capital preservation or just general behavior would we likely see manifest? I think what you're going to see first and foremost from our industry and certainly from our company is an absolute commitment to support our customers full throttle and we're doing that.
We take on contracts and those are commitments that we make.
So we will not do anything that will impair our ability to support our customers and execute those contracts with every ounce of efficiency and focus on meeting our commitments that we can possibly bring to the table.
And that's what our customers are doing too I would say.
If you look at how the department is operating today even with this ugly cloud that's out there on the horizon the department has not backed off from conducting its mission around the globe.
And I think we all have to admire that behavior on the part of the Department of Defense and the other government agencies that are having to operate with this uncertainty hanging over their heads.
So we're all going to be going through what I'll describe as a planning process and a contingency process so that we are ready to take action we're not having to figure out should it actually occur.
But in a broad sense I think it would be irresponsible of us to take actions that would somehow slow down or impair the ability of our company to meet our commitments.
So that's the way we're thinking about it.
Research Division</strong> And I guess to tie it back to the dividend discussion does it any way hang over that discussion as well or do you see it as more of an isolated risk rather than part of the ongoing capital deployment strategy? It's not really been a significant part of our thinking around dividend.
Our dividend thinking has been more shaped by the parameters that I described a little bit earlier.
The dividend when you look at dividend as a total part of our cash deployment it's not the live-or-die part of our cash deployment.
Research Division</strong> The only other one Jim clarification I guess on the positive adjustments year-to-date.
What's baked into the full year guidance on a year-on-year basis at this point? Myles I tend to think about it in terms of the overall margin rates for each of the sectors than the company as opposed to x amount of cume catch-up adjustments.
And frankly cume catch-up adjustments is one of the factors in the margin rates but it is not the only factor.
It is the resulting margin rate that we recognize on a go-forward basis after those adjustments as well.
So I don't think you can put a number on that.
It's more important to look at the overall margin rate of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess another way of asking it the implied back half margins or the last 3 quarter margins of 11% versus 11.9% last year can you -- is that largely cume catches or mix or something else? Really a reflection of where we think the business is going to be our forecast for this year.
The next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky Citi.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Going back to the margins.
Clearly you've been successful in operating above what you've described as sustainable margin rate.
So that begs the question do you -- your target margins perhaps represent the floor for you as you think about margins or could we see periods of time where you are below that for a small period of time and above it for other periods of time? I'm just trying to get -- I think we're all curious as to how long you can outperform so to speak relative to your own targets or maybe those targets aren't really where you think you're going to be but rather a   floor.
I tend to frankly think about those as targets through the cycle of the business.
We do as Wes mentioned earlier spend a lot of time looking at our historical performance our competitors' performance our peers' performance.
You can look at our performance in the past and some of our peers.
We've been below and above those long-term sustainable targets.
But again given my background experience looking across the industry at our major peers I think they represent as I said sustainable margin rates through the cycle.
There are times when individual organizations who have margin rates better than those and worse than those.
Clearly we have -- we're incentivized to try to drive our organization to perform as best that we can.
We're being very conscious about the actions we take to manage our costs; to improve the affordability of our products; to manage the risk in our contracts; to make good prudent contract decisions upfront.
My experience tells me it's very difficult to overcome a bad contract.
So we make as Wes mentioned earlier very prudent decisions about contract terms and conditions and estimates of costs when we enter into those contracts.
So it's just the whole management process around the nature of our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then just as the follow-up question.
Can you give us a bit of an update on both the Global Hawk and the Fire Scout programs where we are with Block 40 and just overall kind of demand in program development milestones on both those programs? Yes Jason let me give you a quick update.
Global Hawk sort of broadly across the blocks of Global Hawk all right is continuing to provide absolutely superior mission performance around the globe.
And as I mentioned in one of my earlier remarks as we see an increasing focus in Asia Pacific the notion of unmanned systems with long duration and extraordinary time on station really really makes a lot of sense and we can see it in terms of the eagerness with which the men around the globe are utilizing the Global Hawks they have today and looking forward to the Global Hawks that they see coming down the line.
With respect to the Block 30 issue that was illuminated in an earlier question we are continuing to execute the contracts on Global Hawk Block 30 continuing to demonstrate strong contract performance.
And we are working closely with the Air Force to sort out the path forward for that particular segment of the overall Global Hawk enterprise.
I think you also asked about the Fire Scout.
Fire Scout continues to overall as a program do very well with accumulated greater than I think it's 5 000 flight hours at this point and more than 3 000 of those are on operational deployment.
There were 2 incidents over the past number of weeks and we're working closely with the Navy in their investigations on those incidents to really make sure we've got down to root cause and get that nailed down.
I think if you've been following it you saw that the Navy just recently stated that they do not believe that there were any systemic issues but we really want to sort through that and make sure we've got all of the issues nailed down.
We did just receive the ATP on the new Fire Scouts the MQ-8Cs and we got started off with 2 demo of the 8Cs as well as 6 production units.
So we're continuing to see strong support for Fire Scout and the unique mission capability that it brings.
The next question comes from the line of George Shapiro Shapiro Research.
I wanted to get at this margin question maybe a little differently.
I mean you've done a great job in executing it pretty much saying what you're going to do in the business Wes.
But at some point these older favorable contracts and the newer ones seem to have tougher terms.
Your margins are higher than virtually anybody's seen in the industry.
Now does the declines forecast Jim in your guidance for the remainder of the year suggest that we're actually getting to that point of crossover where it's going to be much tougher to get cume adjustments or is it just your conservatism? George you're calling me conservative.
In all honesty George if we knew that we were going to have earnings adjustments we would be booking them today.
So the nature of the process again is to manage the business.
You need to continue to drive affordability across the organization.
That goes to our cost how well our suppliers perform whether or not there are issues that we have to address from that side the overall contract.
Yes the business is more difficult.
Maybe that influences my view on what could happen here in terms of overall margins but -- and I stand by my earlier comments.
The team is really working hard first of all to make sure that we have an affordable cost structure; to be innovative in how we manage not only the production process the engineering process all of which have an impact on affordability or the cost of the products.
And again the management process around good deals to begin with is really important.
Yes George just one other little piece I would add to that is as I said in my remarks and I know Jim did in his as well we're working very aggressively on cost reduction in our enterprise.
And we need to do that to support what our customer's needs are particularly as their acquisition strategies have shifted more towards the low-cost technically acceptable approach.
We need to do that to be competitive for the long term.
As we take costs out there is always an opportunity for that to better support contracts that are already underway but as you know in our industry when we go to compete and whenever we go through a new contract negotiation the costs we've taken out becomes the baseline for new contracts.
So that's also the part of our thinking as we look at sustainability and margin rates in our industry going forward.
And the final question will come from the line of Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a follow-up actually on George's question there.
Do you get the sense that your customers are feeling a little bit uncomfortable with this sort of rates of return that you're now achieving or are they more focused on other things such as price per unit as opposed to returns per unit? Yes I think that ultimately the customers are focused on affordability.
And that's the price they're paying per unit.
And in fact if you listen very carefully to what is being said at the highest levels of the Pentagon they feel good and they are able to enter into a contract that they deem through their own analysis to be very affordable.
Clearly it needs to meet the regulations of DFAR but contracts that really incentivize contractor performance.
And what you're seeing and when we're talking about making positive adjustments you're seeing contractor performance and that translates into benefits for the customer.
They're getting what they're wanting out of these contracts.
So to the extent that we are performing and making good margins I think there's a lot of support for that particularly when it means that we are in part doing that because we are becoming even more cost competitive and we're supporting the future affordability of the defense industrial base.
So yes our customer's under a lot of pressure and not every action that's being taken in response to that pressure or actions that we like of course.
But I think philosophically and I base this on the direct statements that come out of the seniors in our customer community and I think these are very very honest and direct statements they like it when we perform on contracts and they're willing to have contracts that motivate us to do that.
Well thank you.
This ends our Q&amp;A session.
And at this point in time I'd like to turn the call back over to Wes for closing comments.
Thanks Steve.
Well I'll just wrap up by saying once again we really appreciate all of your interest in our company.
We are continuing to focus on our key priorities as we've talked a lot about here: driving on performance deploying our cash effectively and optimizing our portfolio for the future.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you again for participating.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman second quarter earnings conference call.
My name is Chanel and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thanks Chanel and welcome to Northrop Grumman’s Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
We provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
On the call today are our Chairman and CEO Wes Bush; and our CFO Jim Palmer.
Please go to Slide 3.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
All right.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our second quarter conference call.
This was an outstanding quarter in a challenging environment.
Segment operating margin rate EPS cash from operations and free cash flow all improved over last year.
And new business awards totaled $8.8 billion a book-to-bill of 140% which increased our backlog to $41.5 billion.
Our focus on superior program performance cost reductions and customer affordability in combination with effective cash deployment continues to generate solid financial results and create shareholder value.
All 4 of our businesses performed well.
Together they generated segment operating income roughly equal to last year's second quarter despite lower sales.
And segment operating margin rate increased 50 basis points to 12.5%.
Earnings per share increased 4% to $1.88 and on a pension-adjusted basis earnings per share increased 13%.
Cash was also a highlight for the quarter.
Cash from operations totaled $876 million and after capital expenditures of $51 million we generated free cash flow of $825 million.
During the quarter we continued to execute our balanced cash deployment strategy.
In the second quarter we repurchased 4.9 million shares of common stock for approximately $295 million.
Year-to-date repurchases totaled 9.3 million shares for approximately $560 million.
We also announced a 10% increase in our quarterly dividend in the second quarter.
Maintaining a competitive dividend payout ratio on a pension-adjusted basis continues to be a priority in our cash deployment strategy.
Year-to-date we've returned $820 million to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends which is consistent with our pattern of returning more than 100% of free cash flow to our shareholders over the last several years.
Turning to guidance.
Based on our year-to-date results we're increasing 2012 earnings per share guidance to a range of $7.05 to $7.25 from the prior range of $6.70 to $6.95.
Our sales guidance for the year is unchanged.
2012 guidance assumes a continuing resolution in the fourth quarter but our guidance does not contemplate extraordinary customer actions in anticipation of a potential sequestration at the beginning of 2013.
We continue to see modest organic sales growth in key domain areas which is being offset by our portfolio-shaping actions and lower volume for other programs due to ramp downs and cancellations.
We continue to capture new business in our key focus areas of C4ISR; Unmanned; Cyber; and Logistics and Modernization based on our competitive discriminators in these areas.
Our $8.8 billion in new awards included several large awards in our strategic focus areas.
These include: $1.6 billion for NATO AGS; as well as multimillion dollar contracts for the next-generation Fire Scout unmanned helicopters; F-16 airport fire control radars for Thailand Iraq and Oman; Cybersecurity projects; and a contract to upgrade the U.S.
Air Force's electronic attack pods.
We also recorded $1.4 billion in awards for the James Webb Space Telescope.
This quarter's awards resulted in a 6% increase in our total backlog.
So overall it was a very good quarter.
But as we look ahead we see an increasing risk profile due to budget uncertainty.
This uncertainty becomes more critical as we progress through the year and we recognize that it's also a major area of concern for all of our stakeholders.
As the government formulates future Defense budgets we are preparing for various potential scenarios including sequestration.
Like others in our industry we are very concerned about sequestration's serious negative consequences for national security and the Defense Industrial Base and the shareholders customers employees suppliers and all the communities that rely on the Defense Industrial Base.
While we've not received planning guidance from the government on how sequestration would be implemented we are developing contingency plans.
There are many variables in how the law could be implemented that will determine the specific impacts.
However we expect that as currently provided for under the Budget Control Act sequestration would result in lower revenues profits and cash flows for our company.
We appreciate the work that some in Congress are undertaking to ensure the capability and readiness of our nation's military under the specter of a potential sequestration.
We believe that a solution that avoids sequestration and its destructive impacts is in our best national interest.
In addition to sequestration we're also planning for various other budget scenarios all of which call for a heightened focus on innovation cost reductions and customer affordability initiatives.
Over the last several years we've improved our performance for shareholders and customers by driving program performance reducing costs and enhancing our portfolio alignment.
Our year-to-date results demonstrate the positive impact these actions are having on our existing portfolio of contracts.
They also position us to compete in a more challenging environment.
We believe that we're taking the right steps in the current environment and that we can continue to create value for our shareholders by remaining focused on our key priorities: performance; effective cash deployment; and portfolio optimization.
Now before I turn the call over to Jim I want to provide some perspective on Monday's leadership succession announcement.
These organizational changes take effect in 2013 and are the result of thoughtful and thorough succession planning as well as extensive internal leadership development.
We decided to announce these changes now in order to enable a seamless leadership transition over the next 5 months.
At Aerospace and Electronics Gary Ervin and Jim Pitts each informed me of their intention to retire Jim at the end of this year and Gary in the first quarter of next year.
Both Gary and Jim are outstanding leaders whose contributions to Northrop Grumman our industry and our nation's security are too numerous to name here.
I want to personally thank Gary and Jim for their support and their leadership over these past several years.
They have been instrumental in achieving the superior program performance and affordability improvements demonstrated in our financial results.
Linda Mills the President of Information Systems will join the corporate office as Corporate Vice President for operations.
Linda has done an outstanding job at Information Systems both in shaping our portfolio and improving financial performance.
In her new role she will have a focus on our operational efforts that we have underway across the company to support our drive for sustained performance even as our environment becomes more challenging.
Gary Jim and Linda will continue to lead their organizations through the end of the year which will support a smooth transition for our incoming sector leadership all of whom are current Northrop Grumman leaders.
Tom Vice the current President of Technical Services will become President of Aerospace Systems.
Tom joined what is now Northrop Grumman's Aerospace sector in 1986 as an engineer on the B-2 program.
He's held a variety of AS leadership positions of increasing responsibility in operations and program management as well as business development.
Before assuming the TS Presidency Tom led the Aerospace Systems Battle Management and Engagement Systems Division which encompass the E-2 LEMV and BAMS programs.
And he also served as Vice President for Navy Airborne Early Warning and Battle Management Command and Control programs.
Gloria Flach current President of Enterprise Shared Services will become President of Electronic Systems.
Gloria joined our Electronics business in 1981 and held numerous positions of increasing technical and management responsibility before leading our Shared Services organization.
Just before assuming her current role at ESS Gloria was Vice President and General Manager of the ES Targeting Systems Division and she also served as the Vice President and General Manager of Engineering and Logistics for Electronic Systems which included executive responsibility for engineering and manufacturing operations and logistics services across the ES sector.
Linda Tom and Gloria are current members of Northrop Grumman's Corporate Policy Council which is our senior leadership team and as such they will provide additional continuity to the management of the company in their new roles.
Kathy Warden will become President of Information Systems.
Kathy currently leads Information Systems Cyber Intelligence Division which provides cyber capabilities to national and military intelligence programs.
Kathy joined Northrop Grumman in 2008 as Vice President Strategic Initiatives where she was responsible for ISR market strategies including key growth campaigns in cyber and intelligence information sharing.
Kathy joined Northrop Grumman after having worked at another defense company as well as having worked in the commercial sector.
Her breadth of experience is well aligned with the breadth of market focus at IS.
With the transition of Tom Vice to Aerospace Systems Chris Jones will lead Technical Services.
Chris currently leads the Integrated Logistics and Modernization Division at ES.
Chris joined Northrop Grumman in 2004 as the Director of product support and international programs for the Airborne Early Warning Program at AS.
He managed personnel located in several U.S.
states and countries and was responsible for all domestic E-2 Hawkeye support and international E-2 programs.
In addition to his program execution responsibility he also was a key member of the business strategy development and capture teams.
In addition to these changes in our sector leadership Mark Caylor our Treasurer will assume the presidency of Enterprise Shared Services.
And Prabu Natarajan Vice President of Tax will continue with those responsibilities and also take on treasury responsibilities.
Dave Perry whose appointment is effective immediately will become Corporate Vice President and Chief Global Business Development Officer.
Dave previously served as Vice President and General Manager of the Naval and Marine Systems division and Electronic Systems.
Each of the individuals chosen to lead our businesses has broad and deep industry experience and superior expertise and domain knowledge in their business areas.
One of Northrop Grumman's strengths is our leadership bench and we are fortunate to have such talented leaders within Northrop Grumman to take on these roles.
All of these individuals have been important contributors to the operational performance improvement we've achieved over the last several years and I'm looking forward to accomplishing even more as we move ahead next year.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
The highlights for the quarter were the strong new business awards and our 12.5% segment operating margin rate which combined with share repurchases generated a 13% increase in pension-adjusted earnings per share.
On a pension-adjusted basis operating income was comparable to last year's second quarter and pension-adjusted operating margin rate increased 50 basis points to 11.8%.
Operating income for the quarter included a $64-million reduction in the net FAS/CAS pension adjustment.
Our improved results reflect in part the aggressive cost reductions we've taken to improve our affordability in anticipation of likely budget declines.
We are realizing the benefit of those cost reductions on our existing backlog of contracts.
Based on our year-to-date performance we now expect a 2012 segment operating margin rate in the high 11% range with a total operating margin rate in the mid 11% range.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was equal to last year's at 34% and we continue to expect an effective tax rate of 33.75% for the year.
We do not assume an extension of the R&amp;D tax credit in that guidance for tax rate.
As Wes mentioned cash results for the quarter were outstanding and reflect lower retirement benefit funding as well as lower working capital requirements than in the prior year period.
Our team's efforts to accelerate cash flow within the year are yielding benefits.
However we still expect cash flow to be weighted towards the second half of the year as is our typical pattern.
Guidance for cash from operations is unchanged at $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion and we continue to expect free cash flow to range from $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion.
Turning to the sectors.
Sales in Aerospace Systems declined by $69 million or 3%.
Adoption of the units of delivery revenue recognition method for the F-35 LRIP 5 contract impacted sales by approximately $30 million this quarter.
The loss of the DWSS sales due to its cancellation last year also impacted year-over-year sales by about $56 million.
F-18 volume was lower due to 2 fewer deliveries this year and B-2 volume declined reflecting reduced modernization efforts on that platform.
Lower volumes for each of these programs more than offset the higher sales in the E-2D program and our Unmanned programs.
Aerospace operating income declined by 9% and resulted in an operating margin rate of 12.1% compared with 12.9% last year.
The 2 major drivers of these changes are the transition to the lower margin multi-year 3 contract for the F/A-18 and the absence of last year's favorable imposed performance adjustments.
For the year we continue to expect AS sales to range between $9.7 billion and $10 billion with a mid 11% margin rate for the year.
AS awards totaled $5.1 billion this quarter which brings our total backlog up to nearly $21 billion.
In Electronic Systems sales declined by $47 million or 3% reflecting the de-emphasis of our domestic Postal Automation business which had reduced sales by $34 million.
We also experienced lower volume for international Postal Automation laser systems and infrared countermeasures.
Declines in these areas were partially offset by higher volume in our Space business programs.
ES operating income declined by 3% consistent with sales and the margin rate for the quarter was comparable to last year at 15.8%.
For the year we continue to expect ES revenues of $6.9 billion to $7.2 billion but we are increasing our ES margin rate guidance from mid 14% to low-to-mid 15%.
This guidance reflects a margin rate of approximately 14% for the second half of the year roughly in line with our original ES guidance for the year.
At Information Systems sales declined by $175 million or approximately 9% on a year-over-year basis.
The cancellation of the JTRS AMF program as well as the wind-down of the F-22 and last year's sale of the County of San Diego IT outsourcing contract altogether impacted sales by approximately $75 million.
The balance of the sales decline reflects the general market softening due to the uncertainty of the budget environment and the shorter cycle nature of our IS business.
Despite the lower sales Information Systems' operating income increased by 7% and operating margin rate expanded 160 basis points to 10.9%.
Favorable performance on civil systems programs more than offset the impact of the lower volume.
For the year we continue to expect IS sales of $7.4 billion to $7.6 billion.
Although based on year-to-date results I think 2012 sales will likely trend towards the lower end of that range.
And we now expect 2012 operating margin rate at IS of approximately 10% which is an increase from our prior guidance of mid 9%.
Turning to Technical Services.
Second quarter sales increased slightly during the quarter due to higher volume for Integrated Logistics and Modernization programs.
This more than offset the impact of portfolio-shaping actions and lower ICBM volume.
Operating margin rate expanded 150 basis points to 9.5% principally due to a favorable performance adjustment for risk mitigation on a Department of Homeland Security contract.
For the year we now expect TS sales of approximately $2.8 billion to $2.9 billion with a mid 8% operating margin rate.
So on a consolidated basis our 2012 sales guidance remains unchanged at $24.7 billion to $25.4 billion.
But based on the first half results we are increasing our guidance for segment operating margin rate to high 11% from mid 11% and total operating margin rate is increased to mid 11% from low 11%.
We now expect our share repurchases to reduce our annual weighted average share count by approximately 10% versus the prior assumption of 9%.
And as well we disclosed in our 10-Q filing second quarter net cume catch-up adjustments were $222 million which is an increase of $21 million from the prior year.
The improvement reflects a slightly higher level of positive adjustments as well as a slightly lower level of negative adjustments than in the prior year.
The improvement is the result of our risk management process and affordability initiatives.
Individually none of the contract adjustments were material.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A session I just thought I'd take a few moments and talk about the impact of the pension relief legislation that was recently passed in the highway bill.
As many of you may know the legislation impacts the timing of mandatory pension contributions.
Our analysis indicates that our mandatory contributions will decrease over the next 3 years and then those deferred contributions are paid back over the following 5 to 6 years.
We estimate that the law reduces our otherwise required cumulative contributions for the years 2013 through 2016 by approximately $1.5 billion on a pretax basis or about $900 million on an after-tax basis.
The change in law does not impact 2012 required contributions of $65 million.
Now we want to maintain the financial health of our benefit plans.
We view it as a competitive advantage for us.
So depending upon investment performance or tax planning strategies we may elect to use some of this additional future cash flow provided by the legislation to voluntary fund our plans.
So in closing our second quarter results demonstrate just outstanding operational performance.
We remain focused on generating shareholder value through performance improvement effective cash deployment and portfolio optimization.
So Steve I think with that introduction we're ready for some Q&amp;A.
Thanks Jim.
Chanel we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the past you had said there would be about a $500 million impact this year from the combined impact of the change on the F-35 LRIP 5 and portfolio shaping.
Can you just talk a little bit about that? I'm trying to just understand at what point do I look at your revenue year-over-year and say "This is what the organic trend is versus the portfolio shaping." When do we anniversary all of that? And do you still feel comfortable at $500 million is the right number for this year? Yes I'm trying to remember.
I don't think the F-35 alone the transition to units of delivery accounting was $500 million.
I think it's more like a couple hundred million.
And essentially the revenue will start reversing here in the -- in second half of the year as we begin deliveries on LRIP 5.
The balance was portfolio shaping and other actions but the F-35 itself units of delivery was a couple hundred million dollar impact on 2012.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Carter Copeland Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just -- Wes I'm interested in your comments around sequestration and the various scenarios you're planning for.
I wondered if you might speak to some of the differences in those scenarios what some of the key factors are and that you are looking at and judging the potential severity of some of these impacts.
Any color would be helpful.
Yes we're in a just a fascinating situation here today.
We have this law on the books that mandates that sequestration will occur on January 2 so that's the law.
And I want to be clear that we will be ready to address that environment should that occur but as I said in my remarks that environment would represent lower revenues profits and cash flows for our company.
That said we also know that the President and the Secretary of Defense and to a very large extent the leaders of both parties in Congress have said they do not want sequestration to occur.
So exactly how this is going to play out is anybody's guess right now.
And there are a lot of different scenarios floating around and everybody has their own view as to what might happen and when such things might happen.
What we're doing is making sure that we're ready and that means both planning for a variety of scenarios both the sequestration scenario itself as well as other scenarios that might involve potential compromise positions on the part of the different parties that are taking part in this debate.
We're doing that so that we're ready for a variety of outcomes.
And we're doing it mindful that as we are making those plans and actually taking steps today to make sure that we're ready we're doing that while ensuring that we're continuing to meet our customers' needs.
And keeping all of that balanced as we go through here is going to be very very important.
The other part of this that's also very very important is making sure that we're doing the right things to have a very talented and capable workforce for the future.
And we're mindful of all of those dynamics as we are planning our actions as well as taking some actions today to preserve our flexibility and to make sure we're ready to really take this on however it goes.
One thing I would point out that we see some constants in here and I think those constants while we're all concerned about the coming months this year looking past that at the longer term is really important.
And one of the big constants that we see goes to the way that we've aligned our portfolio.
We believe in just about any scenario there's going to be a continuing priority for Unmanned capability Cyber capability C4ISR and this whole arena of modernization and its focus through Logistics and I see that too as being an important part of our portfolio for the future.
So when we think about what's going on in the world when we think about the environment that our national security customers are having to deal with that part I think is a very important perspective as well.
Trying to determine which exact path we're going to take to get to that longer-term just takes [ph] a little bit of a challenge but we're going to be ready for it.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Howard Rubel Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You have pretty darn good Information Systems margins.
And Wes I know you’ve worked very hard to have that portfolio I'll call it realigned changed and you’ve sort of solved a number of problems there.
Can we -- can you say that you’ve fundamentally changed it in a way that maybe your profit expectations for the business unit are higher? Well I would say that what we've done is we've changed it in a way to support the profit expectations we've put out there.
If you turn the clock back a number of years ago we had a fairly large fraction of that portfolio that was in what I would describe as more commodity services business.
And today if you look at the portfolio and I have to give Linda Mills and her team the credit for this.
They've just done an extraordinary job of managing their way through portfolio alignment here that it has a very large part of the content that is C4ISR and Cyber and if you look at the parts of the portfolio that are more service-oriented those typically have significant engineering content so we're bringing value-added and it's not a competition that's solely on the last penny.
It really is around bringing the value of the engineering content.
So those actions have given us the confidence to talk about margin rates that we put out there for this business as being the appropriate margin rates for the longer term just given the broader character of how we've repositioned this business Inc.
Research Division</strong> You mean -- it just seems to me that when we think about a government services business this is really not that; it's something different and it fundamentally offers different value.
I agree Howard very much so.
This does not any longer fit that model of a traditional government services business.
And as you know very well we actually spun out or sold off I should say the primary part of that business that we used to have the task organization and that was a big part of this portfolio realignment was to take that out and put it into a different construct.
So it's no longer a part of our portfolio.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I was interested in -- Jim and Wes you've talked about the cost-reduction efforts you've had and how that's contributed positively to margins.
Could you -- when you look forward I mean the margins have been very very strong in the first 2 quarters this year particularly in Electronics.
Now as you look forward is there -- not just necessarily the normal margins but is there more to come in terms of ability to get margin expansion through these initiatives or is this all I would say managing to a point where you're expecting some weakness later and we'll see margins revert back to a lower level? Doug as I think about it we clearly have gotten some benefit from the actions that we've taken over the last few years not just last year but over the last few years.
It's really been a concentrated effort beginning going back to 2009 when we combined what was at that time 6 different businesses down to the 4 businesses.
And in that process we made some really significant improvements in our basic infrastructure cost.
For example I use 2008 as a benchmark.
2011 revenues were up 1% over 2008.
Square footage on the other hand was down 6% and the infrastructure that goes with the business largely people-related was down 11%.
So in a continual process to think about the business the organization that supports it the infrastructure that's required and you get the benefits of that on your current backlog of contracts but it's very important that you do those things because it goes to the affordability of your products and then a down -- likely down scenario on a budget affordability is a key driver on being able to compete and effectively win.
So we've gotten a benefit at the same time we have really emphasized the management of our individual contracts identifying risk and opportunities.
And our program management organization I think has done a really good job over that period of time in a better position today than they have been in the past.
So it's a combination of all those factors that I think lead to the improved performance that we've seen.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And when you look forward do you continue to see some ability to improve on the margin side? Clearly that's what we incentivize our people to do and so we are driving towards that.
I -- you may be asking about the long-term objectives margin rates for the businesses.
I continue to believe in those that those are long-term margin rates that are sustainable through the cycle.
Clearly we want to do better than that kind of peer-average type margin rates and we're working very hard to do that.
It's interesting they -- we normally get a lot of questions around cume catch-up adjustments and having spent a lot of time with us over the last 5 or 6 quarters and many times those items relate to either contractual issues or maybe some testing issues associated with individual contracts that largely are not resolved until the contracts are fairly well complete.
So -- and at that point in time you feel comfortable in making those adjustments and recognizing them.
But that having completed or largely completed these contracts does not necessarily imply that those will be the margin rates on a go-forward basis.
So I guess a long way -- winded way of saying I feel comfortable about our guidance for the year obviously as well as our long-term margin objectives for the company and we will clearly work to do better than that.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Jim I've got just a quick question following up on a statement that you made earlier about the competitive positioning of Northrop relative to competitors given your pension position.
The question is I guess twofold.
One I know that starting on February 27 of this year yourselves as well as some of your competitors were able to begin booking higher rates -- higher billable rates into the government.
So I just want to get a sense of what type of activity you're seeing on that front from success or lack of success in being able to do that? And then the second part of the question is where do you think this is going to have the most impact as you look at your various businesses? Does it weight toward services where you get the competitive advantage or is it Electronic Systems? If you could just give us a sense of where you think this competitive advantage is going to have the biggest impact I'd appreciate that.
Yes.
You're referring to CAS harmonization Jason just to make sure everyone is up-to-date on it; and CAS harmonization actually serves to increase everyone's CAS cost everyone in the industry's CAS cost in relation to what they had previously.
So it is a factor that allows us to recover those increased costs but it does also drive to the competitive nature of the affordability of our cost.
So it's great that we're able to recover those increased CAS costs but it is an affordability negative and so we are working real hard to offset that.
In terms of the competitive nature obviously to the extent that your plans are better funded than industry as a whole your costs are less on a go-forward basis and so that is something that as I've said we've worked really hard to address over the past years either through our investment performance which has been positive.
I think our investment management organization has done a really good job in relationship to the uncertain investment environment that we've had over the last 3 or 4 years.
It's certainly been a difficult environment but they've done very well in terms of performance versus the major indices all of which again go to reducing our costs on a go-forward basis.
So it's a combination of all of those factors Jason that I think is a competitive advantage for us on a go-forward basis.
Although as I said it's great to recover that increased CAS cost but it does become a negative that we're working hard at try and offset.
Research Division</strong> Which business do you think it's going to have the most impact on for you? It's really going to depend on individual plans.
We talk as if this is a huge one plan when in reality we have about 20 different plans.
So it depends on the funded status of each plan but the area that we're most focused on has been the Aerospace segment largely because the plans that support that have historically been very well funded and for many years did not have any CAS cost at all so we're dealing with that in our Aerospace segment largely.
But it does affect some of the other segments as well both ES and IS.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Jim could you update us a little bit thinking about pension for next year.
First how was -- just 2 general questions.
What's your investment performance year-to-date? And secondly given that discount rates are down today from where they were at year end and I know it only depends on where you close out the year what sort of leverage does that have? And I know you have kind of your own indices; how should we think about the change in discount rate and what that might mean for next year's FAS cost? Yes so Cai the investment performance through June is in round numbers let's call it 5.75%.
So again the organization has done a good job relative to the indices.
They always tell me I can't annualize that number so I won't do that but reasonable performance on a year-to-date basis.
And as you know I think everyone knows interest rates are down from where they were at the beginning of the year.
We're probably looking at if we were setting interest rates today anywhere from maybe 75 to 100 basis points of decline.
And just a reminder that that sensitivity around that change in discount rate is that every 25 basis points change in the discount rate is let's call it $75 million to $80 million of a change in FAS cost.
So if we were setting it today we would be looking at a decline in interest rates let's call it 75 to 100 basis points.
And that equates at this point to if I can do my math here real quick $300-plus million.
But again it's kind of meaningless to talk about this at a point in time that is...
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to drill down just a little bit into ES.
Margin performance of course of the company has been great.
It's been I think particularly strong here though.
You have the 5 business areas you've laid out within ES and I was hoping maybe either Wes or Jim you wouldn't mind walking through the business a little bit and telling us where the margins relative to the segment average are above or below in each of those 5 units.
And just maybe helping us understand a little bit the complexion the profile of the segment.
Yes Joe I'm not going to do that because I don't want to get into competitive -- I don't want to give out competitive information here.
The performance in ES has been strong in a couple of areas in particular but that -- having said that that doesn't mean that the performance in the other areas are weak if you will as expected but the performance in a couple of areas had been particularly strong.
Research Division</strong> Well let me rephrase -- well I was going to say maybe what we -- what I could ask then on that if it's been a couple of areas in particular you must have visibility on how much of that is sustainable.
So as we look forward and we think about -- and we know your long-term margin target for the segment but how much more opportunity is there to -- for performance adjustments in those couple of areas that have been really strong? As I said in my prepared comments Joe the guidance for the year for ES essentially assumes a second half margin rate in the let's call it 14% range consistent -- actually a little bit better than what our guidance initially was for all of the year for ES.
So we have brought it up a little bit but again the performance adjustments as I said in many cases tend to be towards the end of that contract life reflecting the resolution of contractual issues or other kind of testing or acceptance types of issues and if they occur towards the end of a contract life do not have much of an impact on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> So the implication is that you think you've kind of reached the end with the first half.
The implication is I think 14% margins for the second half of the year is great.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to focus on a separate segment Aerospace for a minute.
The segment’s had great bookings over the last several quarters really the last 4 or 5; maybe even gets a boost on bookings from the Space area in the near term.
So I'm just trying to understand it sounds like a lot of the 2012 issues were anniversary-ing some things whether that was ICBM or the change in accounting for F-35 deliveries or lower F-18s.
Are those or other areas kind of headwinds to '13 or have we anniversary-ed those and this kind of increase in backlog that was seen is putting in a pretty good posture for actual growth in a tough environment in '13 in that unit? Myles we're -- for example on F-35 we're kind of in this sine wave where we essentially had no sales or very little sales on the current production contract the LRIP 5 contract but we will have sales and margins as we go forward into the second half and '13 as deliveries on that contract occur.
As I look at that business I think that that business is reflective of the long-term margin objectives that we've seen that I've talked about for Aerospace.
Clearly they've had some benefits on their existing backlog of contracts from the actions that they have taken to streamline the organization at AS.
That's had a benefit on this year's margins to the extent that -- and it's true the Aerospace segment has longer-cycle contracts than probably most of the other business segments so we're going to see some of that benefit continue as that existing backlog of contracts is worked off.
So again I feel good about where the Aerospace sector is in terms of their margin objectives.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess -- maybe I'm misusing words.
I was actually looking to backlog and the bookings from a standpoint of actual orders.
The backlog’s risen 23% in the last 6 months and 25 in the last 12 months.
And a lot of this -- and just focusing on top line the sales headwinds you face this year you have illustrated pretty well.
So I'm just curious I mean '13 if I'm just looking at those 2 metrics would seem to be pretty well positioned for top line growth and just wondering is there any pushback outside of the obvious sequestration? Besides that I would say no.
I'd say there's a good balance perspective here.
Clearly Unmanned continues to be a very very important part of the portfolio.
The manned parts of it as Jim indicated on F-35 we have to kind of see what the program outlook appears to be.
We're going to have to watch how even if we're not in sequestration how some of the other budget decisions continue to get made as they affect other programs both in Unmanned and Space side.
So we're delighted with the robust growth in the backlog.
I think that positions us very very well for the future here.
I just would not want to get ahead of potential budget decisions that may ripple through the process here.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wes I have a broader question for you.
As highlighted on this call your margins are actually very strong.
You've also brought down your headcount in recent years and now the customer is paying a higher CAS rate for you.
Do you think that there's the potential for political pushback as you and your peers try to avert the sequester as politicians point out that the Defense industry is actually doing quite well at the moment? There's always a potential for people to misuse facts I would say.
If you look at our Defense industry we only do well when we're performing well.
And our customers have been very clear and I think we've all seen that in our contract negotiations over the last several years that we only have the contractual opportunity to do well when we perform well.
And a lot of that's baked into the FAR.
So when we think about our industry relative to other industries we're not talking about extraordinary margin rates in the Defense industry.
We're talking about margin rates that -- well you can see what they are when you look across our industry compared with others.
So I think if there are those who forget that connection between performance on programs and profitability then you could say well perhaps we're making too much somehow.
But the facts are as I've said we only show good numbers when we actually perform well.
And as Jim has been indicating in much of his discussion around our margin rates a lot of this comes down to our ability to not only execute but to look at things in advance and take the actions we need to be taking to manage risk on behalf of our customers.
So I'm not overly concerned about that.
I -- in interacting with the seniors in the Department of Defense they are very clear across the breadth of seniors on the acquisition side and I would say on the policy side that if we're performing we ought to be able to make money.
And clearly if we're not performing we ought to be penalized and that's kind of where I see that discussion sitting today.
Now clearly when we get down to the contract terms and conditions there's a lot of pushing back and forth on the specific terms around profitability and cash flow and many of the other terms.
But all that being said from a kind of the 50 000-foot view and a policy view I think we're in a very reasonably place here where that connection between contract performance and financial performance is a pretty straight connection.
Jim any other perspective? Yes I just want to clarify the -- Rob's CAS comment because essentially because of the transition rules higher CAS cost begin in 2014 not before.
Right.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions there guys.
Wes you've had some of the best bookings so far this year and you talked earlier about abetting CR into your guidance but because of that and the difference in your service business which you highlighted earlier are you less exposed to the CR than some of your peers? We have difficulty telling the degree of exposure of all of our peers so I'd be reluctant to make a comparative comment in that regard.
Clearly our Information Systems business and to some extent our Technical Services business is a higher turnover business in terms of the rate of -- at which contracts come onboard and get executed and closed out.
And so that higher rate on a relative basis between those businesses and our AS and ES businesses cause us a little bit more concern as we look at the CR environment.
But we've actually gotten pretty good at navigating the CR environment and I'd say most of us around our industry have been dealing with this now for a while.
And our ability to plan and forecast the CR aspects of the environment I think is pretty good.
So I'm having difficulty answering your question with regard to others in our industry but I feel pretty good about our own outlook and forecast in that regard.
The challenge I think here isn't so much around the management of a short-term CR.
I think the challenge is how does the framework of a CR play into the concerns around sequestration particularly as we head into the fourth quarter.
And part of the struggle that we're seeing in our customer community is that the political system as I indicated earlier is very focused around is there an approach that avoids sequestration? Is there a broader perspective that can be taken looking together at the tax law changes or the current law coming to effect at the end of the year the issues around the debt ceiling and everything the country went through last year and struggling to deal with the debt ceiling? Is there a mechanism where all this can be brought together or not before the end of the year? And the customer community is trying to figure out how they do the right thing to navigate through all of this so I'm not as focused on the CR in terms of its variability as I am on the potential variability of customer actions in anticipation of a potential sequestration and...
Research Division</strong> So at the very least I think one of the things you're perhaps suggesting is we may see Q4 looking a lot different than Q3.
It's hard to tell.
I wouldn't want to speculate on that.
I would simply observe that there are environmental conditions that could potentially cause that to happen.
Research Division</strong> And then just a final question on this for both of you.
For Wes are you seeing any difference in the way the services are obligating funds these days? And then Jim do you think that cash collections could become a problem as we get to the end of the year? Let me just say on the obligations part of it our understanding is that the guidance to contracting officers is for them to continue forward now and we see them working hard to get things under contract.
Clearly there are some areas that are under more pressure than others from a total budget perspective and so they're struggling with this a little bit more than others.
And so I'd say it varies a little bit across the portfolio but in general we see our customers working hard to hold everything together here.
On the cash collection question I think probably the best way to put it with whether it's debt ceiling all these different things that we potentially could be dealing with in the fourth quarter we have really emphasized as I said in my comments to our team the importance of aggressively working our cash collections billing and cash collections on a timely basis so that we can accelerate all the cash as much as cash is possible into the earlier parts of the year than when it traditionally has occurred.
Again since there's a lot of uncertainty around exactly what's going to happen and how it's going to happen it's hard to tell whether or not cash collections are going to be affected in the fourth quarter but the best medicine is essentially move everything up if you can.
Research Division</strong> So it doesn't really impact your buyback plans.
No I wouldn't think so.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro Shapiro Research.
I wanted to try and get at this margin question maybe a little bit differently.
You had in your release that you got a lower margin on the F-18 multi-year as it transitions.
Now it could just be for the transition but I'm assuming also that the overall realizable margin is probably less on the multi-year 3 than it was on multi-year 2.
If you could go through is there a number that you could provide in terms of how much lower the margin potential might be on some of the new contracts that you're winning versus the current ones that you have in backlog? George the -- you're looking at a situation where multi-year 2 at completion you obviously know what you ended up doing.
You had a multi-year contract; you have the benefit of the multi-year and taking cost-reduction actions and affordability initiatives to improve the overall performance.
Multi-year 3 we’re at the very front end and so it's not unusual to have a much lower earnings rate on the very front end of a contract particularly a multi-year contract before you've had the opportunity to implement a number of the performance improvements and affordability initiatives.
So I think we're at a point in time where we're comparing something that is known to something that has been negotiated that is a good contract.
But we have in front of us all those other opportunities that we can take to improve the profitability and it's too early to call whether all of them are going to be successful.
No I recognize all that.
My question really was you've seen what you did from multi-year 1 to multi-year 2 and my question really is is the potential on multi-year 3 in that regard less? And also if I could generalize to all of your other new contracts whether the potential is less in terms of margin and what you've made or can make on the existing backlog just to get a sense of the pressures you're feeling from -- if any from the contracting people.
Clearly the environment is a little bit more difficult today than it was a couple years ago and we're responding in terms of our cost affordability initiatives and so it's hard to say whether each of those are going to balance each other out over the longer term.
But it really comes down to us to continue to execute on the contracts to drive affordability just as we've been doing over the years.
Each time we take on a contract it's -- as Jim indicated there's uncertainty as to how far we'll be able to go in performance improvement and affordability improvement over time.
And what we're seeing is our team across the company working really hard on this and it shows in our results and we're really proud of that.
No you've done a great job in showing.
I'm just trying to get at how much steeper the hill may be going forward here.
It always looks steep when you stand at the bottom.
Our final question comes from David Strauss UBS.
Research Division</strong> Back to margins I don't think you've addressed this.
You've gotten about 30% to 35% of your segment profit from cume adjustments in the first half.
What does the guidance assume specifically in -- by the way in terms of cume adjustments in the second half of the year? A more normal level if you want to call it that.
Actually if you look at the quarter the second quarter and you compare the cume adjustments to the segment operating margin rate it's 28% this year 26% last year.
So there really isn't that big a change in terms of the cume catch-up adjustments as a percent of the overall segment margin rate.
So overall margins in the second half in terms of my guidance is a little lower.
That's true which essentially implies a little less of those potential favorable adjustments.
But we'll go through a process every quarter of looking at our estimates at completion and making the adjustments if necessary up or down to reflect the actual -- what we see is actual performance and resolution of any risk and opportunities at that point in time.
Research Division</strong> And then one on the revenue side.
I think when you started the year you talked about having about $700 million in contingency or cushion in your revenue guidance.
Does that still exist or do you aim into that and does that specifically relate to assuming a continuing resolution in the fourth quarter? I don't recall any conversation around $700 million of contingency.
There is $700 million of variance in the range if you will $24.7 billion to $25.4 billion.
But essentially that range reflects the possibilities for each of the 4 sectors and where we think they may end the year.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session and I'd like to turn the call over to Wes for closing comments.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
Let me just summarize by saying we had an outstanding quarter reflecting our continued focus on performance.
We face a challenging environment and we're certainly concerned about sequestration and the broader budget environment.
That said we have a team that is focused on creating value for our shareholders our customers and all of our stakeholders and we are prepared to deal with this environment.
Thanks for your continuing interest in our company.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Movius Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may proceed.
Thanks Frances and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
We provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to safe harbor provisions of federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
On the call today are our Chairman CEO and President Wes Bush; and our CFO Jim Palmer.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
All right thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our third quarter conference call.
We're very pleased with this quarter's results and the performance of our businesses year-to-date.
We continue to drive program performance aggressively pursue high-quality new business with innovative affordable solutions reduce our cost structure and align our portfolio with our customer spending priorities in a dynamic environment.
Our intense focus on these actions combined with effective cash deployment continues to create value for our shareholders customers and our employees.
These are not new initiatives for us.
These are the ongoing efforts and actions that have generated substantial performance improvement over the last few years and that will be increasingly important in today's challenging environment.
Third quarter EPS are comparable to last year despite continued top-line pressure.
On a pension-adjusted basis our third quarter earnings per share increased 6%.
We achieved this improvement through a combination of operational performance and share repurchases.
All 4 of our businesses performed well in the quarter.
Our businesses continue to generate strong operating income margin rates and cash flow.
Year-to-date we've captured more than $20 billion in new business awards for a book-to-bill ratio of more than 100%.
And cash generation has also been strong even after our $300 million discretionary pension contribution free cash flow totaled $748 million in the third quarter.
And year-to-date we've generated free cash flow of $1.4 billion or nearly 100% of net income.
Our robust margin rates and cash conversion demonstrate the quality of our operational performance for the quarter and year-to-date.
We're very proud of our employees' outstanding efforts in generating these results.
Our strong cash generation continues to support share repurchases.
During the quarter we repurchased about 4.4 million shares of our stock for $290 million.
And year-to-date we've repurchased 13.6 million shares for approximately $850 million.
In the first 9 months of the year share repurchases and dividends have totaled more than $1.2 billion or nearly 90% of free cash flow.
We continually assess our share repurchase program to ensure that it's creating long-term shareholder value.
As you know ours is a long cycle business and we take that perspective when considering the value of our enterprise.
We consider our long-term value relative to the market's current valuation of our cash flows and earnings.
Based on where we are in the cycle and the prices at which we are purchasing shares we believe that share repurchases continue to contribute to long-term value creation.
The board recently increased our remaining share repurchase authorization to $2 billion which provides flexibility in a dynamic environment.
Turning to guidance based on the strength of year-to-date results we expect to end the year with sales of approximately $25 billion.
And we now expect 2012 earnings per share of $7.35 to $7.40.
On a pension-adjusted basis this represents EPS growth of approximately 8% over last year.
We're also increasing our guidance for cash from operations and free cash flow.
Before discretionary pension contributions we now expect operations to generate $2.5 billion to $2.8 billion with free cash flow of $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion.
Looking ahead to next year there is substantial uncertainty regarding federal budgets including whether sequestration will occur and if so how it would be implemented.
We believe that sequestration would not apply to obligated program funds that are currently in our funded backlog but there's little doubt that the long-term impact of sequestration would be highly detrimental to national security and our industrial base.
The short-term impacts should sequestration take effect in January are more difficult to assess given the lack of specific implementation detail.
As a result we're preparing for a wide range of budget outcomes.
But under any scenario we expect that as currently provided for under the Budget Control Act sequestration would result in lower revenues profits and cash flows for our company and our industry over the long-term.
Now in addition to sequestration and the potential impacts of the other fiscal cliff issues we're now working under a 6-month continuing resolution.
This CR is more challenging than in previous years in that there appear to be virtually no exceptions for  new program starts which includes new tasks on IDIQs and increases in production quantities.
There's also limited ability to effectively shift programming -- shift funding between programs as has been done in the past to mitigate execution issues.
There's no certainty when we'll have a formal 2013 budget and it is possible that the CR would need to be extended which would be an additional source of uncertainty for us and our customer community.
So as we think about next year our outlook is clouded by these challenges.
How all these issues are resolved will determine the degree to which our top line is impacted.
However under any reasonable scenario we would expect lower 2013 sales as a result of the CR restriction on new starts along with the other constraints our customers are facing.
We will be providing our detailed 2013 guidance when we announce our fourth quarter and year-end earnings.
In closing it was a very good quarter and we expect a strong finish to the year.
Obviously looking ahead to 2013 there is a high degree of uncertainty as I said.
But we believe we are taking the right steps in the current environment by bringing innovative affordable solutions to support our customers' needs.
And we believe we can continue to create value by remaining focused on our key priorities; performance cash deployment and portfolio.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Highlights for the quarter were outstanding cash generation and strong consistent segment operating margin rates.
This performance combined with share repurchases generated this quarter's 6% increase in quarterly pension-adjusted earnings per share.
Now let's spend a few minutes looking at some of the details behind the results.
Those results reflect our continued focus on program execution and aggressive cost management and reduction activities.
Although operating income declined by the $66 million change in the net FAS/CAS pension adjustment on a pension-adjusted basis our operating margin rate expanded 20 basis points to 11.2%.
In addition to the pension impacts operating income also reflects lower volume which was partially offset by an improvement in corporate and allocated expenses.
EAC adjustments for the quarter were a net positive $214 million versus $196 million in the prior year third quarter.
The primary driver of the change was a $38 million reduction in unfavorable performance adjustments compared to last year's third quarter.
Based on our year-to-date performance we now expect a 2012 segment operating margin rate of approximately 12% with a total operating margin rate in the high 11% range.
As I mentioned cash results for the quarter were simply outstanding.
During the quarter we did make a $300 million discretionary contribution to our pension plans which after tax considerations reduced third quarter cash from operations and free cash flow by $221 million.
Year-to-date cash from operations is more than $500 million ahead of last year's pace and free cash flow is nearly $700 million higher.
Given that performance we are raising our guidance for 2000 cash from operations and free cash flow.
But in doing so I should caveat that by noting that our guidance does not contemplate any and unusual year end customer behavior due to pending issues such as the debt ceiling the fiscal cliff or potential sequestration.
Turning to the sectors Aerospace third quarter sales increased $131 million or 5%.
We continue to see growth in our Unmanned Systems portfolio principally due to the ramp-up on programs such as NATO AGS and Fire Scout.
Military aircraft sales also increased due to higher F-35 volume which includes deliveries of the first units under the LRIP 5 program for F-35.
You will recall that we adopted the units of delivery revenue recognition for F-35 LRIP 5 and we are now recognizing LRIP 5 revenues with the commencement of the deliveries in this quarter.
Higher volume for Unmanned and Military Aircraft was partially offset by lower sales for Space System programs including some restricted programs and the impact of the DWSS termination in the fourth quarter of last year.
Aerospace operating income declined by 2% resulted in operating margin rate of 11.1% for the quarter compared to 12% for last year's quarter.
The major change in the margin rate is the transition to the lower margin multi- year 3  contract on the F-18.
For the year we expect Aerospace sales of about $9.9 billion with a margin rate in the mid-to-high 11% range.
Electronic system sales declined by $198 million or 10% due to lower revenue in postal automation combat avionics infrared countermeasures and laser systems.
Postal automation includes the de-emphasis of our domestic postal automation business as well as a softening in the international postal sales in Europe.
Combat sales -- Combat Avionics sales declined due to lower unit deliveries for several programs including the F-22.
And Infrared Countermeasures and Laser System programs declined due to force reductions in overseas contingency operations.
These declines were partially offset by higher volume for some Space Systems programs.
ES operating income declined 5% and operating margin rate increased 90 basis points to 16.3%.
You may recall that last year's third quarter included a $25 million provision for the domestic Postal Automation Program and without that provision last year's operating margin rate would be comparable to this year.
For the year we expect ES revenues of approximately $7 billion with a margin rate of low-to-mid 16% up from our prior guidance of low-to-mid 15%.
Information Systems sales declined $179 million or approximately 9% for the quarter.
About $100 million of that is due to the wind down or completion of programs including JTRS AMF and several restricted programs.
Another $30 million is associated with in-theater force reductions and finally the sale of Park Air Norway impacted third quarter sales by $17 million.
The balance reflects just general market softening due to the uncertainty of the budget environment and the shorter cycled nature of our IS business.
Consistent with third quarter sales trends IS operating margin declined 9%.
Our operating margin rate was unchanged at 9.6%.
For the year we now expect IS sales of approximately $7.3 billion and we continue to expect a 10% operating margin rate for IS for this year.
Turning to Technical Services third quarter sales fell 6% largely due to lower volume for the KC-10 program.
Our previously announced portfolio of shaping actions in Defense and Government Services also reduced third quarter sales.
And on an absolute basis TS operating income was comparable to the prior year with operating margin rate expanding 40 basis points to 8.3% due to improved program performance.
For the year we now expect TS sales of approximately $3 billion with margin rates in the high 8% range.
On a consolidated basis we're looking for 2012 sales of approximately $25 billion and we are increasing our segment operating margin guide rate guidance to approximately 12% with total operating margin rate guidance to the high 11% range.
Now let's spend a few minutes talking about everybody's favorite subject 2013 pension.
I should remind you that there are a number of assumptions that are -- that we determine at the end of the year that will principally affect FAS pension cost in 2013.
Two of those key assumptions that are critical are the actual return on investment assets in 2012 and then the discount rate used to discount pension liabilities at the end of the year.
Now through September 30 our actual asset return investment return is approximately 10% compared to our expected long-term rate of return of 8.25%.
And I think you will recall that for every 100 basis points above or below the expected rate of return affects 2013 FAS expense by $40 million.
And if we had to set the discount rate at September 30 we would likely be looking at about 100 basis points lower than what we've used to discount liabilities last year.
And again just a reminder that I think you know that we are required to set all of these assumptions at the end of the year.
And so with a little over 2  months to go we may continue to see volatility particularly in interest rates due to matters such as the pending fiscal cliff or global economic factors.
But again for modeling purposes just a reminder every 25 basis points change in the discount rate impacts 2013 FAS expense by about anywhere in the $75 million to $80 million range.
So at the start of the year and again a reminder we had estimated our 2013 net FAS/CAS income to be about $250 million.
And obviously that estimate had assumed no change in the discount rate or asset returns above or below the long-term rate of return assumption of 8.25%.
Our estimate for CAS for next year has not changed much but obviously interest rates and plan asset returns among other assumptions will have a significant impact on 2013 FAS expense.
Well Stephen in closing I would say a very strong operational performance that we've seen for the first 2 quarters continues into the third quarter.
Expect a strong finish to the year.
As I said strong cash flow.
So bearing any unusual customer behaviors resulting from the uncertain budget environment I think we're going to have a strong finish to the year.
So with that I think we're ready for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Jim.
[Operator Instructions]  Frances we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Wes I know you alluded to 2013.
You'd have some top-line pressure regardless of the sequestration situation that evolves.
Curious could you comment on the margin side Jim or Wes? Regardless of -- or let's assume no sequestration.
What kind if any headwind on the margin side we should anticipate? Obviously you had a strong performance on EACs and the negative EACs continue to come down.
Just don't know how much more opportunity there is for the unfavorables to come down.
If you can kind of elaborate maybe just at the high level? Myles let me give you a range of thoughts here.
Clearly 2012 we've had a benefit from the cost reduction activities we've undertaken over the last year and a half in terms of our existing backlog.
Some of that backlog continues to have those benefits on a go-forward basis.
Secondly I would observe that the contracting environment is -- it's a little more difficult that it has to been in the past.
It means that we got to be diligent about terms and conditions and contract structure.
And most importantly it means that we have to do what we are charged to do manage our programs.
Thirdly we do take a look every year at long-term rate of return assumptions for our 4 business areas.
I'm very comfortable with where we are but we'll take another look at that.
Based on what we see as in -- as performance in the industry.
And we may revise or we may continue to hold the long-term rate of return assumptions that we have today.
But again I feel very good about where we are in terms of the businesses.
Clearly our job is to do better than those long-term rate of return assumptions and we've been able to do that over the last couple of years basically through a combination of affordability initiatives and then managing the programs.
And then finally we're not standing still.
We continue to take actions to improve affordability within the company which again it will give us an advantage on the existing backlog even for new contracts that we negotiate today.
So in summary I would say just outstanding performance from the team for this year and we feel good about the long-term view of the businesses and what the margin ought to be able to generate.
And it's up to us to manage our programs.
[Audio Gap] the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested on the -- in thinking about the top-line outlook because if you look at what you all have done over the last few years in terms of reshaping the portfolio exiting some businesses ramping down some things like activities in the postal automation area.
And then OCL funding coming down.
So you've had some things that have taken the top line down.
A few contract inflations [ph].
So are we at a point where you can sort of reset the business? And if we set sequestration aside are we at a point where as you look forward are we looking at something that's stable declining or even maybe some modest growth out over the next few years? Doug let me frame it this way.
If we look at 2013 in particular clearly sequestration is a big big variable in all of this so but to the point of your question if we set it aside the other reality that we are dealing with now is this continuing resolution 6 month CR.
And it's a pretty tight CR in terms of the way that it's crafted.
It puts an enormous number of constraints on our customer community with respect to what they can do on new starts or transitions into production or even under IDIQs.
So given that that appears to be at least a 6-month concern and that will put negative pressure on the top line sort of across the board.
That's going to be a fact of life that we're dealing with.
So ultimately stability in our top line will go sort of hand-in-hand with greater stability and how the government is appropriating and executing the budgets that are allocated for defense and the other agencies that we serve.
The other factor though that I would say needs to be considered even if you set aside sequestration is just how much money is going to be allocated for defense ultimately in the budget environment? We all know that there is a substantial deficit situation and that there are some tough decisions that lie ahead to be made regarding the outcomes for each component of that budget.
So it's a little unclear today from where we are how to predict how that will go.
But to the point that you made we feel good about how our portfolio is positioned in that regard.
We feel that we've done a good job of getting aligned on priorities.
So when those budgets get set it's our expectation that our portfolio will do well in a relative sense against those priorities.
The other longer-term opportunity for the company continues to be on the international side.
As you know our international sales historically have been largely confined to our Electronics business.
And while we've been very pleased with those sales and the team at Electronics has done a great job of making those sales very effective for us we see additional opportunities emerging particularly in our Aerospace Systems business but also in IS and TS as we take a broader look and engage with our DoD customers in terms of their strategy on what they would like to see our partners around the globe be able to do.
We see a growing push to take some of the capabilities that historically we've had some challenges exporting.
We see a growing push to make those more available to our partners.
So that's not the near-term thing.
It takes a while to get those through the policy arena and then actually execute it in terms of specific programmatic decisions.
But we also see our portfolio as being well-aligned for some of the important thrusts that we see from an emerging policy perspective and supporting our allies around the globe.
Your next question is from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sorry to kind of try and do 2 parts here but just Wes just to continue on the continuing resolution question isn't the absolute level of the CR higher than what the original request is? And so wouldn't that actually in some ways be beneficial? And maybe you can talk about some of the starts that you expected this year that get pushed out.
Well it is just very slightly higher in a total magnitude sense but what ultimately counts is what the constraints are that get implemented program by program.
So you have to sort of peel that apart.
And I -- we're all glad that the total number for the CR was a good number relative to the President's budget.
But when it comes to executing programs particularly programs that are in any form of transition if it's a transition from development to production if it's an IDIQ contract where you're finishing off a task an order on an IDIQ contract and they want to issue a new task.
And if you're just looking at the broader set of constraints that went with -- and this was a very tightly prescribed CR.
More tightly than we have seen in the past.
So that that was really the comment that I had on why that is an issue relative to how the top line will work out.
Just about every program in our community has a fair amount of variability around where the funding is coming from what the line items are.
And when you start putting those types of constraints on it it does have implications on what our customers can do.
So that's all of our hope that we move through this CR as expeditiously as we can and get a real piece of legislation that really does the appropriations the way they need to be done so that our customer community can go and execute on their mission.
That's our I would say at a the top-level our primary concern.
I think it tends to impact our shorter cycle businesses more dramatically but even some of our more substantial programs that are making that transition from design into production could be impacted by those constraints depending on the timing of the actual appropriations language and how long we actually live under this CR environment.
Your next question is from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask when I'm looking at the balance sheet it looks like you'll end the year close to or in a small net cash position.
Rates are particularly low out there right now.
I wonder how you just think about the right level of balance sheet utilization.
And there's obviously plenty of uncertainty ahead particularly in the near-term but you could add a significant amount to the balance sheet and still keep your leverage metrics fairly low? Or perhaps you just want to wait until the sequestration outcome is resolved? But if you could just speak to how you're thinking about that probably that'd be very helpful.
You're correct Noah in your observation.
We have a very conservative balance sheet at this point in time.
We view flexibility as very important.
The cash balances provide us that flexibility in this uncertain environment.
Having some certainty around future budget outlooks would be really important.
We're mindful of where interest rates are.
We've watched that very carefully.
I don't know that we're going to see a significant change in interest rates in the near-term.
I'd like to believe that we are but I doubt that we are.
So I think that the market flexibility will likely remain for a reasonable period of time that if we wanted to take advantage of that we would have the opportunity.
But in today's environment having the flexibility that our capital structure reflects today is really important.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to get back to a strategic question that is not new but just to get your latest thinking on it for either or both of you.
It has to do with share repurchase.
You guys are continuing to -- it's your primary use of free cash flow.
It's about half of what you're looking for in terms of cash flow before pension contributions this year is what you're on track to do.
And you're indicating that sales are going to face pressure next year.
You're indicating that margins are still above their long-term rate.
And so when you evaluate the value in your stock to repurchase it and I'd just like to maybe get an update on how you think about doing that and how you plan to modulate your repurchase activity based on where your stock is? Joe it's Wes.
I touched on this a little bit in my remarks and I think it's important to be clear about how we think about this.
As I said in my remarks we are a long-cycle business and when we think about this we're looking at longer-term value.
We're a business that generates good cash flows.
And as we assess how that's going in terms of how the market is valuing our shares we play that directly into our own model of long-term value creation.
And our assessment is that share repurchases have continue to be a very very good use of our cash.
In fact as I pointed out in my remarks and as we announced a few weeks ago the board increased our remaining share repurchase authorization to $2 billion to make sure that we've got appropriate flexibility as we go forward.
So we continue to look at share repurchase as a very good use of our cash.
We clearly compare that to all the other alternative uses.
And first and foremost we always make sure that we're investing appropriately in our business to make sure that we are realizing that the opportunities that are represented by the strength of our portfolio.
So that is always our primary thinking.
We pay a lot of attention to our pension plan to make sure that it is in good funding condition and we continue to do that you saw that just here in the quarter we made an additional investment in our pension plan.
And I think we've been in a good place on our dividend we raised our dividend 10% this year.
And when we mix all those things together we like what we've been doing on share repurchase.
We do think it is a very good use of our -- of the cash flows that we're generating.
And like the opportunity that it presents for value creation in our company.
Jim was there any other perspective you'd like to add to that? I would just reiterate your comments.
We continue to have a balanced cash deployment strategy investing in the business managing our balance sheet and returning any excess cash to our shareholders.
And traditionally our dividend and share repurchases kind of have been in a 20% ratio for dividends the balance in share repurchases if you look back over a quite a bit a long period of time absent last year's large share repurchases after the spinoff of Shipbuilding.
So -- you and I are in the same place.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from RBC Bank.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm not sure if it was Jim or Wes one of you mentioned about the shorter cycle areas of your business being a bit weak in the quarter.
I was wondering if you could quantify maybe how much this might be down and if you expect this to perhaps catch up at some point in the future? And also if you're seeing increased competition in some of these short cycle areas? Actually book-to-bill ratios in the -- both on a quarter and a year-to-date basis are essentially around 1 or above 1 and I think in all of our businesses except TS we're at 0.97 on a year-to-date basis.
So frankly compared to last year at this point in time our book-to-bill is ahead of where we were.
Yes I think one of the comments we made earlier was as we look ahead into the CR environment we do have a little bit more concern about some of the shorter cycle businesses given the constraints on new starts if you will.
And the CR has been implemented so that sort of programmatic funding issue that we would have that I think would manifest in the shorter cycle businesses.
But as I pointed out it can even impact our longer cycle businesses at the point that programs are transitioning in some way that would be impacted by the constraints of the continuing resolution.
And your next question is from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You have changed your focus on bidding it seems Wes and maybe for a moment you might want to talk about that? And it looks like it's impacting maybe your capital spending as well? In a sense it's much more information technology.
It may be less capital-intensive and more intellectual-intensive? Yes our focus in our bidding has really been to make sure that we are pursuing the business base  that will be high-quality business for the longer-term for the company.
And your point within our Information Systems business is right on.
We have over time transitioned that business from a business that had a much greater fraction of sort of lower commodity businesses to a much higher end more intellectual capital much more engineering-content business.
That's a transition that's been underway just these last few years and I think that's serving us well.
It allows us to be very thoughtful about where we are applying our resources both our capital as well as our internal R&amp;D and then proposal investments.
And it's allowed us to make sure that the businesses that we pursue there really have some form of competitive sustainable competitive differentiation that generates value so that we're not just turning them over in a very quick mode as we would often see in the lower end commodity businesses.
We've been making that transition in Technical Services as well.
And over the last couple of years of really fundamentally transformed the portfolio of businesses within something ES to go after the areas that require more intellectual capital if you will around modernization or some of the training solutions.
Or even in the services side of that the areas that require the broader applications or the capabilities we bring forward as a company.
So that transition has been underway.
It continues still a little bit but I think we've come much of the distance we needed to go to make that transformation.
I like where it positions us in the marketplace when it comes to the areas of highest priority for us to pursue the things that we've talked about extensively.
Cyber Security is a good example of that.
The modernization work that we're doing in Technical Services is another good example of that.
So it's been an important shift for us.
Jim anything you'd like to add? I'd just observe Howard that the decline in CapEx that you're seeing you might remember that we moved from California a year ago bought a building? That's probably the biggest driver in the decline.
Year-over-year.
Year-to-year.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just a question on pension.
It looks like with your good return your underfunding will be down this year.
And so that I mean by my numbers if the discount rate went up by something like 50 to 75 bps we might actually be fully -- very fully funded.
And so taking that into account I mean do you think it's a good -- do you plan on making more pension contributions next year if we kind of close where we are today? And if so how do you view the attractiveness or lack thereof of being more than fully funded? I think Cai I think there's an advantage to have a very well-funded plan.
There are some practical limits to that as well.
And so if and when we see a move-up in interest rates that reduces the liabilities back to frankly a move back to more historical levels you're right that will significantly improve the otherwise underfunded situation that we see today.
Given where interest rates are not only is a 25 basis point move in discount rate which we talked about being potentially 100 basis points lower and contributing to the pension expense of $75 million to $80 million a 25 basis points move to $750 million of liability pension liability.
So you're right in observing that a move-up if and when we get that in terms of interest rates will have a significant impact on funded situation of the plans.
And we do just like with a view of the company this is a long-term decision that we made for providing employee benefits for our employees.
We need to think about it in that way.
I don't have significant cash contributions.
I don't have any -- it might require contributions next year at this point look to be in the range of let's call it $75 million.
So not a significant use of cash.
But as we've mentioned before when you think about our cash deployment across the total opportunity set that we see we clearly want to invest in the business and continue our I think leading portfolio.
We want to manage the liability side of our balance sheet by both investing in the pension plans when it makes sense.
We have debt that matures in only the next couple of years and so we need to be thinking about what we want to do there whether we replace it or pay it off when that matures.
And then ultimately we'll return excess cash to shareholders.
Our view really hasn't changed and we need to think about the pension plan on a long-term basis and if and when we do see changes in interest rates moving up it will improve the funded situation of the plans and likely will have a similar impact on our required funding.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to drive down a little bit to get a sense from you on sequester and potential sensitivities around that.
It would seem that shorter cycle businesses would be the ones that would get hurt the most the quickest given the fact that you've got annual renewals on a lot of contracts.
And I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about it whether you have visibility on -- kind of what percent of your firm's overall business would -- you would characterize as short cycle at this point and would be subject to kind of the winds of sequester and the short-cycle nature of pressure that we might see? So Jason let me -- and I appreciate the question because this is an area where as I mentioned in my remarks there's a lot of uncertainty first and foremost about whether or not sequester would happen.
But then should it happen how that would all roll out.
As I think I mentioned in my opening remarks we would not expect to see obligated funding hit in sequester.
It is I think the case that it would take a little bit of time for the -- each of the departments and agencies to sort through what they would need to do contractually as a result of sequestration.
Just the pure mechanics of that process would be daunting if I were putting myself in the shoes of our customer community to really deal with such a thing.
So it's hard to predict.
And so I wouldn't want to get too far off ahead of trying to predict how that would actually work out.
But I do think that the principle that you indicated is probably correct that the services businesses would if a sequester were to occur and persisted for some period of time would probably be impacted sooner in that they have the higher turn rate of their contracting base.
And consequently they burn through the obligated amounts and they encounter a new contract decision more quickly.
And also the customer more likely would be in a position where it would be having to deal with those types of contracts sooner than the longer cycle development and production contracts.
Although ultimately if that sequester persisted all of those things could be under a lot of pressure.
So it's a little bit hard for us to come up with some percentages on that.
We've done a lot of modeling for different scenarios.
I wouldn't want to go on record pinpointing a particular scenario that I thought was most likely because as I said this is going to be a very very dynamic environment.
Should we find ourselves in that position of a sequestration actually getting implemented.
And it's going to be -- it would be very very tough on our industry but I would also say it will be very very tough on our customer community and the challenges they would face and the decisions they would have to take none of us envy anybody being in that kind of a position.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just to expand on that a bit Wes and you say you've evaluated a number of scenarios.
I wondered just to kind of be specific about something that's hard to be specific about is there a scenario where the impact to revenues earnings and cash in 2013 is greater than the cut we'd expect to see to DoD outlays in the event of sequestration if as you stated previously obligated funds on contract are unaffected.
I would think it would be difficult to see an impact of that sort of magnitude but I wanted to see if you'd agree with that based on what your evaluations of the scenarios show today.
Yes I think ultimately just if you think about the mechanics there is the factor around the obligated funding that we mentioned and yes that's sort of a consistent way of thinking about it.
But there's also the factor the real factor of just the time it would take for a turn on contracts and the rest of it.
So it probably would not be an overnight thing.
It would take a little bit of time to manifest.
But the real problem I would say is not just an in year issue it's the long-term impact that would result from the set of actions that would be taken that would fundamentally disrupt programs and the industrial base in a profound way.
And that's why from our perspective we've said it a number of times this would certainly impact sales and profits and cash flows but we are all as concerned about what it would mean to the stability of the programs the stability of the industrial base the people in the industrial base.
All of the other aspects that would ultimately translate into the ability to deliver the National Security Solutions.
So just working the mechanics of it and there's a lot of speculation about how mechanics would work.
Long-term I don't think I'd have to speculate when saying that the impacts would be profound and very very negative.
And it would take us all a long time to turn back the cycle on that.
Jim I don’t know if you want add anything to just some -- part of from the financial aspects of your thinking on it? All of which I again would agree with and Carter if you think about the nature of the accounting method percentage of completion that we and the industry use essentially significant changes in your cost structure have a cumulative catch-up impact.
And so yes I could imagine a situation where a change in cost structure or revenues by X amount results in a different percentage change in margins for the company or the industry.
Your next question is from the line of Robert Spingarn from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Apologies for this but I want to continue in this direction mainly because the irony is that while I think most of us think there might be a negotiated settlement here at some point.
What's on record is the most onerous outcome.
And maybe another way of approaching this Wes is how do we think about the dispersion in the outlay form of the FY '13 funds to Northrop via the request over a chronological time period? So those funds the Northrop would receive through the President's '13 request if it were to go through when do those outlay in which fiscal years for Northrop? Is it 25% in '14 some number in '15 and '16? How do we think about that? Yes I won't go through the details of that.
Obviously it's been a part of our modeling.
It varies as you might imagine by the different components of our businesses.
Some of the monies that get appropriated the actual outlays occur over several years sometimes 2 sometimes 3 and some of the appropriated monies get burned up in the cycle.
And you can imagine which of these businesses go with which.
So there is a burn through of all of that.
I think perhaps though a bigger question is should our customer community find themselves in a situation where there's been either by overt decision or by failure of the Congress to actually change direction basically a national conclusion that we're going to do something as draconian is implement a sequester.
What actions will our customers have to stand back and do -- take from a broader strategic perspective? So there's kind of the mechanical part of outlays and obligations and all of that.
But the real question at that point in time would be strategic.
And what the longer-term implications would be of having to rethink a fundamentally much smaller budget within which to execute the national security mission while the threats around the globe and the issues that our servicemen and women are called upon to execute continues to grow.
To me that's actually the bigger question here.
It's not so much the in-year outlays and the implications of the mechanics in 2013 it's -- is where would that take us.
And that's what I think we've -- we need to be mindful of.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
I just wanted to get an update.
I don't think you've signed a Block 4 contract.
You haven't signed Block 5 because Lockheed hasn't either.
So how do you decide what to book for profit when you're making these deliveries under those contracts? And then just one other one I'd throw in.
Where do you stand with Block 30? It doesn't look like anything's happening in terms of canceling that either.
Yes actually George we're negotiated on Block 4 and 5.
We're negotiated so we have a good basis for thinking about marginal rates on the contracts.
George let me take on the question around Block 30.
We continue to work closely with the Air Force on all the blocks of Global Hawk.
The Air Force has continued to fly the Block 30s and we continue to support the activity and we continue to work with them to make sure that all of the capabilities and operational activities that are needed to continue to make that asset valuable to the Air Force and more broadly valuable to the co-coms are being implemented.
So the category that we continue to work very closely with the Air Force and the combatant commanders continue to ask for the asset to be utilized.
And your next question is a follow-up from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim or Wes one of the other issues that's going to happen with the sequester I guess is the civilian workforce also would be cut very sharply.
So that probably has as much of an impact on what would happen as anything else.
Is that a fair way to think about it? It's a very fair way and it's one of our very big concerns.
Clearly the civilian workforce and the DoD and the intelligence community represent an enormous foundation of knowledge and perspective in implementing the National Security Mission which we're all focused on executing.
So the concept of a major reduction in that workforce would have very very long-term implications.
It's also a big concern beyond the DoD and something that I think is sometimes not illuminated adequately in this discussion around sequester half of sequester goes to the DoD and sort of the national security side of the budget.
The other half fully the other half goes to the other federal agencies.
And so we're talking about impacting individuals who support Air Traffic Control individuals who support all of the federal enforcement agencies and law enforcement agencies across the board.
We're talking about potential impacts to food safety to the activities that are underway to ensure that the nation is able to deal with diseases and epidemics.
All those sorts of issues are on the table every bit as much.
When you think about those other agencies they don't have as large a procurement budget as does the national security side of the equation.
In a sense they don't have as large a procurement budget when they go to take this full 50% of the hit it will translate into even greater impacts on the civilian employees of those agencies.
So this a broader set of national issues and national concerns than just the defense community.
And I think that deserves more illumination in the debate around the appropriateness of using this very blunt instrument of sequestration to address the fiscal challenges.
At this time gentlemen there are no other questions.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Steve Movius for your closing remarks.
Thank you Frances.
I think I'll turn the call over to Wes for his closing remarks.
Okay thanks.
Well let me summarize quickly by saying again we are very pleased with the performance of our businesses in the quarter and all the way through the year.
Clearly this continuing focus on performance on cash deployment and on our portfolio is making an impact is making a difference and we are pleased with the outcomes that we're seeing this year.
We certainly appreciate all of your interest in our company and thank you again for joining us on our third quarter call.
Thanks everyone.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman Fourth Quarter and Year End Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Steve Movius Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may proceed.
Thanks Frances and welcome to Northrop Grumman's fourth quarter and year end 2012 conference call.
We provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's calls constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
On the call today are our Chairman CEO and President Wes Bush; and our CFO Jim Palmer.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
We had a very strong finish to the year with outstanding fourth quarter and full year results.
We met or exceeded guidance for every metric and I want to congratulate our employees on a job well done.
Fourth quarter earnings per share increased 2% to $2.14; and for the full year earnings per share rose 5% to $7.81.
On a pension-adjusted basis EPS increased 11% in the fourth quarter to $2.06 and 15% for the year to $7.47.
Our financial results demonstrate the positive impact of superior program performance driven by cost reductions affordability initiatives innovation and portfolio shaping across our 4 businesses.
The strength of our sector's operating performance coupled with continued share repurchases more than offset lower sales higher pension expense and higher effective tax rates.
Cash generation was also strong.
For the year before the impact of pension prefunding we generated cash from operations of $2.8 billion and free cash flow of $2.5 billion.
On a reported basis free cash flow of $2.3 billion represents a free cash flow yield of 14.3% and net income conversion of 117%.
We deployed that cash by repurchasing 20.9 million shares of our common stock for $1.3 billion reducing weighted average shares outstanding by 10%.
We also paid dividends of $535 million and made a $300 million discretionary pension contribution.
Through share repurchases and dividends we returned more than $1.8 billion in cash to our shareholders or approximately 80% of 2012 reported free cash flow.
We captured new awards of $26.5 billion during the year for a book-to-bill of 1.05.
Total backlog increased 3% to $40.8 billion and funded backlog increased more than 10% to $25.7 billion.
I'm very proud of the performance improvement accomplished by our team.
Achieving these improvements has required tough but necessary actions.
To put our improvement into perspective since the end of 2009 sales from our continuing operations have declined about 9% due in part to portfolio shaping.
During that same period our focus on performance has generated a 20% increase in absolute segment operating income and a 300 basis points expansion in segment operating margin rate or more than a 30% improvement.
As a result of this improvement in combination with effective cash deployment EPS from continuing operations have grown by a compound annual growth rate of 20%.
While superior program performance and portfolio shaping drove much of the improvement we've also significantly reduced our cost structure.
Over the last 4 years we've reduced our headcount by approximately 17% and we've reduced our facilities footprint by approximately 12%.
As we improved operating income and margin rate we maintained robust free cash flow and free cash flow conversion.
We also monetized assets to create value for shareholders.
Over just the past 3 years we've generated free cash flow of $7 billion including the $1.4 billion contribution from the HII spinoff.
More than 90% of that cash has been distributed to our shareholders $4.8 billion to repurchase shares and another $1.6 billion for dividends.
In addition we increased the dividend in each of these 3 years.
Looking ahead I can't recall a time of greater uncertainty regarding customer funding levels or government fiscal policy.
We continue to operate under a 6-month continuing resolution that expires on March 27 and there is the potential for sequestration on March 1.
In addition other issues such as the debt ceiling raise the possibility of a potential government shutdown.
Our nation needs a balanced strategic approached to our fiscal challenges.
Blind indiscriminate budget-cutting is not the answer but that is exactly what sequestration would entail.
We urge Congress to work to avoid the destructive economic impacts particularly in terms of government and private employment and the impacts to our national security that would result from a sequester a prolonged restricted continuing resolution or a government shutdown.
Our 2013 financial guidance is based on the assumption that the current 6-month continuing resolution would be immediately followed by appropriations which even if in the form of a full year CR will provide program spending levels that are consistent with those set forth in the President's fiscal year 2013 budget and that support and fund the company's programs.
Guidance for 2013 also assumes there is no disruption or shutdown of government operations resulting from a federal government debt ceiling breach or lack of immediate appropriations following the current CR that sequestration is not triggered and any budgetary approach agreed by Congress to address longer-term spending does not result in significant reductions to our customers' FY '13 budget levels.
While we don't have control over these issues and can't predict their ultimate resolution I believe the work we've done over the last several years on performance as well as our strong balance sheet leaves us well prepared for a likely defense spending downturn.
For 2013 we expect sales of approximately $24 billion earnings per share of $6.85 to $7.15 cash from operations of $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion and free cash flow of $1.7 billion to $2.0 billion.
Our top line guidance contemplates a $500 million impact for lower volume on space programs Joint STARS and the F/A-18; $300 million for the impact of troop drawdowns in overseas contingency operations; $200 million resulting from the current CR impacts; and approximately $100 million each for the ICBM program restructure and portfolio shaping principally the deemphasis of base and range operations in our Technical Services business and the Park Air Norway divestiture in Information Systems.
Beyond that we expect low single-digit growth for our core capabilities in cyber and unmanned systems.
We also expect higher international revenue.
In 2012 international revenue both direct and FMS totaled approximately 8%.
In 2013 with the ramp-up of NATO AGS and other international bookings we expect international sales to increase to more than 10% of our revenue and we see continuing opportunities around the globe that our portfolio should allow us to address.
In conclusion our 2012 results demonstrate strong performance in a challenging environment.
In order to continue creating shareholder value we must remain absolutely focused on our key priorities: driving performance effectively deploying our cash and optimizing our portfolio for the future.
Our record these past few years demonstrates we can do this successfully and I'm delighted to be working with our company's talented team to create long term sustained value.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
I also want to add my congratulations to our team on the outstanding work this year.
2012 results were simply excellent.
Our dedicated team again rose to the challenge and performed very well in a tough environment.
We continue to make the difficult decisions to reduce cost improve affordability that are helpful in translating to our record results.
Let me give you a few numbers to put our performance into perspective.
Segment operating margin rate of 13.5% for the quarter and a record 12.6% for the year.
Pension-adjusted operating margin rate of 11.9% for the year also a record.
I'm particularly pleased by the cash our operations generated this year.
Wes noted that our free cash flow was $2.3 billion.
That means that free cash flow per share was more than $9.
Of that amount we distributed about $7.30 per share through share repurchases and dividends or 80% of free cash flow.
Based on our average 2012 share price of $63.63 our cash yield was 14.3%.
And in 2012 our shares appreciated 15.5%.
As you can see from the guidance we expect another strong year of cash generation and we expect to continue our balanced cash deployment strategy that returns a substantial amount of cash to our shareholders.
Turning to results for the sectors.
Aerospace Systems finished the year on a high note with a 7% increase in fourth quarter sales and slightly higher sales for the year.
AS margin rates for the quarter were outstanding at 13.8% and margin rate of 12.2% for the year matched last year's strong performance.
AS did book a couple of positive performance adjustments in the quarter in its space programs neither of which was more than $20 million.
For 2013 we expect AS sales of approximately $9.7 billion with a margin rate of low to mid-11%.
The sales trend reflects lower volumes for space programs Joint STARS and the F-18 which is more than offset by higher volume unmanned programs due to the ramp-up of NATO AGS and Fire Scout.
Electronic Systems also had outstanding results.
While fourth quarter and full year sales experienced a mid-single-digit decline operating margin rate increased 28% for the quarter and 11% for the year.
Margin rate was outstanding at 18.5% for the quarter and 17.1% for the year records for both periods.
ES fourth quarter net performance adjustments were about $50 million higher than last year reflecting solid operational performance as well as a lower level of negative adjustments for contractual issues.
The fourth quarter of 2011 also included some costs from reductions in force.
For 2012 ES operating income includes an increase of approximately $160 million in net positive performance adjustments.
The increase is driven by 2 factors.
First last year's negative adjustments included about $50 million in our domestic postal automation business that obviously didn't occur this year.
And secondly in 2012 we had a higher level of favorable adjustments particularly for combat avionics as well as several programs completed deliveries negotiated contract modifications or successfully mitigated risk.
For 2013 we expect ES revenues will be roughly comparable to 2012 levels at approximately $6.9 billion.
This does contemplate lower volume for some space programs some continued impact from force reductions in our overseas contingency operations partially offset by higher international sales.
We do expect continued strong margins but obviously some of the 2012 performance improvement is likely not sustainable.
We expect ES operating margin rates of low to mid-14% for 2013 and while not at the record levels of 2012 they are still very healthy and indicative of outstanding execution at Electronic Systems.
Turning to Information Systems fourth quarter sales declined by 2% principally due to the divestiture of Park Air Norway in the second quarter of this year.
Park Air contributed $30 million in sales in last year's fourth quarter.
For 2012 IS sales declined by 7%.
For the year the divestiture of Park Air Norway and the County of San Diego IT outsourcing contract reduced sales by $100 million and the JTRS termination accounted for about another $80 million of the variance.
After these items IS sales decline was about 5% and reflects force reductions in overseas contingency operations and a wind down in completion of a variety of programs.
IS operating income reflects lower volume and improved performance.
Fourth quarter margin rates do reflect the impact of some costs related to affordability initiatives.
But for the year margin rate expanded 60 basis points to 10.3% outstanding performance particularly in light of the lower volume in a challenging market environment.
For 2013 we expect IS sales of approximately $6.7 billion.
I want to point out that about $125 million of that variance to 2012 sales reflects some portfolio shaping activities as well as the transfer of intercompany efforts to our corporate shared services organization.
That transfer which is about $100 million of the $125 million does not impact overall company P&amp;L -- as you know intercompany sales are eliminated -- but will impact the year-over-year comparison for IS.
Excluding these items we expect a decline of about 8 -- 7% due to lower volume for in-theater programs like BACN Command Post Platform and C-RAM to name a few the wind down or completion on a variety of other programs and the expected impacts of the current CR.
Moving to Technical Services.
Fourth quarter and 2000 sales -- 2012 sales declined 7% and 5% respectively.
Trends in both periods reflect our portfolio shaping actions to reduce base and range operations volume to lower KC-10 volume and the ICBM program restructuring.
Operating income for the fourth quarter is consistent with the change in volume.
And for the year the higher income and margin rate are due to improved performance on the KC-10 program.
For 2013 we expect TS sales of approximately $2.7 billion which contemplates the impact of the current continuing resolution some force reductions in the ICBM program restructuring and then a little bit of portfolio shaping as well.
We expect a mid to high-8% range in margin rate for TS in 2013.
And I know many of you know this but I would point out that our IS and TS businesses are our shortest-cycle businesses and most vulnerable to the uncertainty of the current budget environment.
As I said our segment operating margin rate for 2012 was 12.6%.
You will see when we file our 10-K that we had net favorable performance adjustments of $985 million for this year.
That includes an increase of about $150 million in favorable adjustments and about $100 million decrease in unfavorable adjustments.
Much of the increase in the net favorable adjustments occurred at ES and I don't expect that to reoccur this year.
So on a consolidated basis we expect segment margin rate in the low to 11% (sic) [low to mid-11%] range.
Turning to pension costs for 2013 the assumptions that underlie our 2013 net FAS/CAS pension adjustment of $120 million include a discount rate of 4.12% versus last year's 5.03%.
A long term expected rate of return of 8% versus 8.25% last year and reflect 2012 investment returns of slightly more than 12%.
We expect 2013 FAS of approximately $380 million which is about equal to the 2012 amounts and we expect our CAS cost of approximately $500 million.
That CAS amount could move up or down by about $30 million depending upon the outcome of our annual demographic study which we expect to complete in the third quarter of 2013.
So after pension cost and corporate unallocated expenses we would expect our total operating margin rate will range between high-10s and low-11% for 2013.
We also expect a tax rate of about 33%.
That includes the positive impact of the extension of the 2012 and 2013 R&amp;D credit which we estimate at about $27 million or about $0.10 or $0.11 for 2013.
The 2012 credit about $15 million will be recorded in the first quarter of this year.
Earnings from continuing operations are expected to range from $6.85 to $7.15 per share which assumes a weighted average share count reduction of approximately 7% reflecting continued share repurchases in 2013.
Cash from operations of $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion and free cash flow of $1.7 billion to $2.0 billion before the after-tax impact of discretionary pension contributions.
We did make progress in 2013 in reducing the seasonality of our cash flow.
But I still expect cash flow to be weighted towards the second half of the year.
We do plan at this point a $500 million discretionary contribution in 2013 over and above our required contributions which are less than $100 million for this year.
Beyond 2013 we would expect CAS harmonization will begin to increase CAS pension recoveries in 2014 and '15.
And over that same period our annual pension contributions -- required pension contributions should be about a little bit less than $100 million which is principally for our nonqualified plans and some of our foreign plans.
In summary continued strong operating performance strong cash flows for our businesses in 2013.
So Steve I think with that we're ready for some Q&amp;A.
Thanks Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Frances we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Jason Gursky.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you might just give us a bit of an update on the long term margin targets and whether you've seen any change here as we move into the new year.
Yes we set those targets a number of years ago by looking at the performance of our peers over a long period of time and we used them to incentivize our organization to improve and drive performance.
It's worked really well.
I tend to think of those not necessarily as targets if you will but more of a benchmark on what our businesses ought to generate over a long period of time.
We continue to strive to do better than those "targets" or benchmarks.
We have done better than that.
We've been very successful in using them as a motivation for our team to do better and I continue to believe that they are applicable as I said over a long period of time looking at the performance that we and our peers have generated during that period of time.
I find that they tend to be supported by many of our major peers as well.
So all in all I think they have served us well.
They continue to be that benchmark that we refer to and using to strive to do much better.
As I said we continue to incent our team to drive performance and it really has been beneficial in doing that.
So I'm comfortable with them as they are.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then the follow-up question is just a book-to-bill outlook as we move into 2013 and how that kind of translates into revenue streams as we move out.
Jason this is Wes.
I think we all recognize that this year with the continuing resolution that we have in place much less some of the uncertainties that we see as potentials on the horizon that book-to-bill is going to be under pressure and getting to a 1.0 book-to-bill would be a tremendous outcome.
We don't guide on book-to-bill or awards each year but I would say anything close to 1 for 2013 would be a great outcome.
Your next question is from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested Wes you've talked about some of the success you've had in cost reductions square footage headcount over the past couple of years.
And when you sit today and look at the opportunity going forward for the next year and say the following year does it look as like the opportunities are as large today as you saw in the past? Doug it really depends on the business space that we see on the horizon and all of that sort of depends on some of these budgetary decisions that get made.
To the extent that the there are more severe budgetary outcomes than the Presidents FY '13 budget would suggest then yes there's a -- it will go with that.
We will need to scale -- continue to scale the operations and continue to address whatever comes our way.
I think we've shown we know how to do that.
It's not something we'd rather do in terms of dealing with a more severely depressed budget than the Pentagon is already trying to manage its way through but we do certainly have the capacity and know how to get that done.
If things were pretty much on track for the budget just from my perspective there's always room for more and we're going to continue to push and drive efficiency in our corporation.
I'm not going to set any public targets on how much more we can get there but I think I would just say that the market should be informed by the work that we've been doing that we are determined at ensuring that we can be very very competitive from a cost structure perspective and that goes to every aspect of cost.
And that we can be putting forward the most affordable concepts and approaches for our customers who are dealing in a much more tightly constrained environment.
So it really is a responsibility that we see to support our customers to be most cost efficient as possible.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then on the continuing resolution certainly with the CR in place that limits the availability of funds for new starts for transitions from development into production often.
When you look across your portfolio where are the areas or the major programs that you're most concerned about in terms of being able to ramp up or make the transitions? Doug it touches every one of our sectors in some way.
In the large sort of hardware-oriented parts of our business we have a whole variety of programs that are undergoing that transition.
Whether it's unmanned systems like BAMS even things that are at the very early stages of development where you want to go out and do long lead that are associated with production.
Those -- it would be too long a list to go through.
I mean they're all touched in some way.
And then clearly the shorter-cycle businesses both Information Systems and Technical Services deal with this at a much higher rate because the nature of a short-cycle business is you've got to start the new programs more frequently.
And when you're constrained in your ability to do that it really hamstrings the customer community and us from doing that in the most efficient way.
Ultimately what you end up seeing happen in those types of business our current programs our services approach get strung out.
And while that can be good in some respects ultimately that's usually not the best answer for the customer either.
So I hate to give you too general of an answer to that question but the detailed answer would be incredibly detailed and that we see this environment with those types of very tight restrictions really touching all the components of the business.
And I think that's why you're hearing -- well it's one of many reasons why you're hearing the department be so vocal about the CR approach and how constraining it is and they're attempting to be very clear with the Hill that resolving these restrictions as we come to the end of March and the current CR expires is a necessity for them to be able to really operate the department in a more efficient manner.
If we're talking about saving money for the government efficiency matters and so that's a critical message.
Your next question is from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just Wes I know this is a hard topic to address and in terms of contingency planning if we actually do trigger the sequester.
I mean obviously you have a set of contingency plans that you'll work off of.
I wondered if you might kind of take us through what's the sequence of internal events if something like that is triggered.
What's the sort of play-by-play of the implementation of one of those plans? The work that we've been doing to get ready for the variety of scenarios is both broad and deep.
And I guess I should start just by saying that I'm clear about this I'm not going to speculate on what scenario might lie in front of us whether it's sequestration or problems associated with the CR that I was referencing in relation to Doug's question.
There's clearly a lot of uncertainty on how this whole situation's going to get addressed and the fact that we're seeing now...
[Audio Gap] scenarios you think will come into play.
But the other think that I think is really important to point out here and sometimes gets lost a little bit in some of this dialogue is our primary obligation is to successfully execute on the portfolio of contracts that we've taken on.
And so the planning work that we're doing is trying to be mindful of what might happen but also have its primary objective do no harm.
To make sure that we really can and do continue to execute really really well.
When we think about all of these different scenarios I think to the question you're asking we have to think about it in terms of contractual potential contractual actions that our customers would take and traditionally that's what would trigger any particular sequence of events on our side whether it's delay in terms of slowing a contract down or in a more ugly situation termination for convenience on the part of the customer.
Naturally as a part of our process we have gone through our full set of contracts and we understand what the issues and approaches would be associated with those variety of potential customer actions and they all vary by scenario and we're certainly prepared to address those if we have to.
In general as I was remarking earlier to Doug's comment it adds cost.
It adds cost to the department to have to go through and do those things in a period of time when the nation's trying to minimize outlays the idea of adding cost is not a really good idea.
And what's interesting to me is I don't see folks on the Hill adding up the numbers that go with all of those additional costs that will get created by that massive inefficiency that would result.
The other part of the planning process that's also very important is the people part of this.
And this isn't just about contracts contracts turn into work that real people perform and these are individuals whose skills are precious resources in our country.
These are the skills that enable the companies and the Defense Industrial Base to provide the technological superiority upon which our nation's strategy our national security strategy relies.
And so part of our challenge as we think our way through this is being ready to address how we most diligently and carefully manage that precious resource of capability that we're going to need to make sure that we preserve our ability to continue to support the nation as we go through this challenge.
And I would say that in my mind is the most challenging part of this.
We're talking about extraordinarily good people who have lots of opportunities and making sure that they see our industry as a great place to continue their careers despite these budgetary pressures.
That's something we're all working hard on because we know that ultimately that determines the success of our ability to support the mission that we're here to serve.
Your next question is from the line of Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So F-35 I think on the Q3 call you mentioned...
[Technical Difficulty] And that question is from Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I think on the third quarter call you mentioned the F-35 was going to be I think higher volume in the second half.
Could you give us some sense in terms of where was the F-35 volume last year? Where should it be in 2013? How is your performance and kind of what's the opportunity for improved profitability at some point? Cai from memory the F-35 this year was around $1 billion in terms of revenue and about $1 billion would be the expectation for next year as well.
You know we don't comment on profitability by individual programs so I'm really not going to go there.
We are working hard to be a teammate with our friends at Lockheed and support the program.
We're doing well in our pieces of the work and I would characterize our margins at this point as basically as I would expect given the stage of the program.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the follow-up would be if we look at aerospace you kind of have lower margins projected and some mature stuff coming off.
When do we have some of these newer programs like the F-35 reach the point where they should start maturing so that those margins in aerospace could start to improve? On the F-35 I don't really see a step-up in terms of volume until about 2016 given that the current plan for quantities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I mean the question was volume.
As you mature the program and you made the point about where you are in the stage of the program usually the margins get a bit better.
So when do we reach the point when more of that volume starts to become mature? If we want to talk about aerospace in total we still have a very good strong mix of new development-type programs.
And I don't think that changes much over that couple of year period of time going forward.
So the good news is continued growth on new opportunities will be important as that portfolio transitions over time.
Your next question is from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about ES.
Jim you had mentioned about the net favorable adjustments this year and that they were the majority of the total.
If I back those out and I don't know exactly what the total favorable adjustments are but it would still seem to imply a margin well into the high-14s on the baseline and your guidance seems to imply kind of 50 basis points below that.
So I'm wondering why is it declining kind of even x the adjustments in 2013 versus 2012? I thought you were going to ask me why they were above our long term rate of return or something.
LLC Research Division</strong> No the basis points are that's not a new question.
Oh okay.
I think that the guys the team at ES is just doing a fabulous job over the last few years.
They really have driven up the margins.
We've worked really hard to reduce the negative adjustments that part of that business has been plagued by over looking back 3 or 4 years or so.
And at low to mid-14s I think they're going to just have a great year.
LLC Research Division</strong> So there's not really a change in the mix or development to production or anything else that's going to drive it? I don't think so.
We do have -- did have in 2012 a number of programs or contracts reached the end of their production or life.
And as well did get a benefit from the cost-reduction activities that we undertook at ES and at the company in '11 and in '12 had a big impact or favorable impact on their contracts.
And as you know you give those up as you go forward with new contracts.
All of that are factors into that overall margin rate expectation for ES for 2013.
Having said that you bet we're going to push to get us the very best performance that we can out of that part of the business and every other part of the business.
Jim I would just add that similar to your earlier remarks around aerospace ES has been very successful these last couple of years in capturing some new development work as well.
And as you all know that the margin rates during the development cycle are generally less and I think we'll see some of that too.
And we have some new development activities possibilities.
Exactly on the horizon here.
And your next question will come from the line of Rob Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick one Jim actually.
I was looking at goodwill on the balance sheet.
You've got $2.4 billion.
I was wondering if you did your annual impairment review what the results of that where how much cushion you might have from the latest reassessment of that goodwill? You bet we did our annual impairment test.
And just like last year the most sensitive piece of our businesses is IS and we do have a cushion.
It's not real large if you want to call it that or look at it from that perspective but we're comfortable with where we are at the end of the year and as we go forward we'll do the test again based on new information when we have it.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean I'm sure you wouldn't be able to get into specific details but can you give us an idea of maybe how much that cushion might have reduced versus last year? It's down a little bit from last year and frankly the cushion is a combination of a whole bunch of different factors.
Obviously interest rates play into the discount rate on the use of discount cash flows that has an impact on terminal value has an impact on pension liability.
All those are factors in the overall calculation but it does start with the expected cash flows from the business.
And our guys at IS although revenues were down we still expect that they'll have reasonably healthy margins given our guidance for 2013 and again comfortable with where we are.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a quick one for you Wes.
I was wondering if you can maybe comment on the competitive environment that you are seeing in services and your ability to preserve margins going forward.
I think a lot of that goes back to the point I was making earlier around affordability.
Clearly as the department's budgets are under increasing pressure our customer community needs our industrial base to drive additional efficiencies into the way that we do business which we've been busily doing now for several years and they need good ideas.
They need the innovation that can come out of our industry to suggest alternative approaches to getting things done.
So I think just thinking about it very broadly the competitive environment is going to be very healthy.
I think everyone's working on cost and everyone's working on innovation.
And hopefully we're all going to be able to not only be competitive with each other but be supportive of our customers in this more difficult period of time.
It is going to be a challenging competitive environment.
I don't want to sound dismissive of that at all.
Those of us who had been through defense downturns in the past have that experience under our belt and understand very clearly what that means.
But that's part of the reason we've been doing the work we've been doing to get ready for this.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The first question is more of a clarification Jim I think in the slides it implies what the share -- diluted share count benefit is to EPS with 6% drawdown.
I don't have the period end share count so I don't know exactly but is the share repurchase number on a dollar basis about...
It's 7% on a weighted average shares this year to next year.
Research Division</strong> Yes is the dollar repurchase assumed to be about the same? Yes roughly the same.
Obviously for planning purposes we've assumed that it's generally proportionate throughout the year which equates to about a little bit more actually.
It's price dependent obviously.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That kind of brings me to the question so -- to your earlier comments on your pension plan you're in a much better funding position than probably anyone else or definitely better than anyone else out there and probably 85% or so funded.
Actually 83%.
You'll see in the K.
Research Division</strong> 83% all right.
So if I look at your cash balance that continues to grow.
You're returning over 80% or 80% of the free cash flow generated in 2012.
But again the cash balance continues to grow.
You're in a net cash or close to net cash or 0 net debt position.
At what point do you actually take some of the cash balances and return those or at least increase more than 100% free cash flow return to shareholders? Or is there M&amp;A out there on the horizon that you'd like to retain it for? Well actually if you think about the comments that we just went through pro rata a little bit more than last year dividends and our free cash flow guidance for 2013 you're at 100% if not maybe more than 100% just with that.
Yes Myles I'll just add.
We continue to see share repurchase as a very important part of our overall balanced cash deployment strategy.
We think that has been serving our shareholders well and it has been a good use of our cash.
We do think about our business over the longer cycle and that's the perspective that we have in mind when we're thinking about our approach in share repurchase in particular.
So it continues to be a very attractive mechanism for cash deployment for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the cash balance though question you would still expect it to be not coming down anytime soon in terms of this being the level that you'd be comfortable maintaining on the balance sheet? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> It seems like...
If I have let me try to answer.
$1.7 billion to $2 billion on free cash flow and let's call that midpoint of $1.8 billion or something like that.
$500 million for dividends round numbers.
If I have a similar amount of share repurchases to last year's that's $1.8 billion midpoint of that free cash flow.
Got CapEx.
That free cash flow is out of that.
But then if I spend any money at all on things like funding the pension plan or other opportunities and clearly as we tried to outline we're in an uncertain environment so we do want some financial flexibility to be able to deal with that.
I think I'm on one hand I'm continuing to do what we've set out to do and have done over the last few years with deploying cash to invest in the business to manage our pension plans and return excess cash to shareholders and provide us with financial flexibility to deal with this uncertain fiscal environment that we're in at this point in time.
Your next question is from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Your level of EACs that you've assumed in your 2013 guidance is what? Less than last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any -- obviously last year was close to $1 billion was pretty high.
Any sort of range? No.
I really think about it as those overall margin rate as opposed to what kind of level of adjustments do I need to have to get there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Jim on the cash flow from ops walk can you give us some help on working capital cash taxes what's baked into that number relative to 2012? Yes.
As you all know the hardest bit in this business on cash flow projection is working capital.
So right now the guidance anticipates a use of working capital anywhere from let's call it $50 million to $250 million for the year.
Cash taxes and tax expense roughly about the same maybe $50 million greater on cash taxes.
And then the other variable in that whole range of EBITDA to free cash flow is first of all stock compensation about $100 million and then CapEx of around $400 million for the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last one if I'm looking at it correctly you still have a decent chunk of what would be considered relatively high cost debt outstanding given today's rate environment.
What's the plan if anything to address that? I know other companies have gone after that pretty aggressively.
We tendered for all of that or much of that in 2010.
We actually tendered for $1.9 billion at the time and were able to pry out about $800 million.
We continue to look at it continue to look at who holds it and the likelihood that they might be receptive to tenders.
And at this point we haven't been able to convince ourselves that something like that makes sense given who the holders are of that -- largely of that high-coupon debt.
Your next question is from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
I wanted to ask you were surprising to me in the sense that you had substantially up margins where a couple of your major competitors had down margins in the quarter.
But yet you're still guiding to significantly lower margin in '13 and even though you've always been conservative in the past I'm just wondering is it all just EACs reflecting in '13 or the core programs are that much tougher? Can you just go through that a little bit more? Well I would say that we have an increasingly tougher environment.
At the same time we're working very hard to make sure that on all the new contracts we get reasonable terms and conditions that our cost estimates fairly reflect what we think our cost are to do the work.
As I did mention earlier we have taken -- we tried to get out ahead of what we saw as a decline starting in 2011.
We did take a number of actions to reduce as Wes said our footprint and our headcount.
We did get a benefit in 2012 on our backlog for those activities.
And our backlog normally runs about 1.5 years.
If you get all the benefit on 1.5 years you get a year's worth in '12 you don't have a whole lot left do you? So it's a combination of just what we see in the marketplace in terms of the environment and the actions we've taken that have resulted in favorable performance adjustments.
As I said we have also worked very hard to reduce the quantity and the quantum of any of our problem programs and been I think pretty successful with that.
So it's really just that look at the entire portfolio of programs and where we stand that lead to our judgment around those margin rates for 2013 which I think are really strong operating performance particularly in light of our benchmarks for the types of businesses we're in which as I said largely are confirmed by many of our peers both in their guidance for this year as well as their performance.
So all in all I think we're doing a pretty good job.
You definitely are.
And just a follow-up for either you or Wes.
So Wes you clearly have done a great job in taking out cost before ahead of revenues.
Can you continue to do that if sequestration goes into place which is going to be somewhat more abrupt? I mean how do you actually plan to be able to do that or continue that? George I've remarked on this just a little bit earlier that in the event of sequestration or other budgetary actions our first challenge is going to be addressing whatever contractual changes come along.
But ultimately we have to scale cost structure with that and that's what our planning has been focused on to enable us to do that in a smart way so that we're not doing something that undermines our ability to perform for the long term.
But we worked our way through those scenarios and are certainly ready to take on the variety of scenarios.
Ultimately though in any of those outcomes first and foremost we're going to have to deal with the contractual matters.
Your next question comes from the line of Yair Reiner from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> A question about free cash flows after discretionary pension.
They've been fairly volatile here over the last couple of years.
$1.9 billion a couple of years ago and now just $2.3 billion in 2012 and I guess the guidance for 2013 implies somewhere between $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion.
Now I understand that a lot of these discretionary pension payments are going to come back to you later on but can you just help us understand what we should think about as a long term sustainable free cash flow after pension? I've said a number of times publicly that I think even in this environment that we're going to have relatively strong free cash flows as we look forward.
I really don't see -- we've had strong cash flows.
I continue to expect that we will have those relatively strong cash flows free cash flows on a go-forward basis.
I don't know what else to tell you there.
And we look at the voluntary pension amounts sort of on a year-by-year basis depending on what's going on in the marketplace and the economic benefit that we see by making those contributions.
So that is something that we do look at and make decisions based on the environment.
And a look to the longer term as well.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Your backlog went up both funded and overall this past year and you have revenue guidance that's down without sequestration and I was wondering if you could comment on whether that's just a profile of the backlog the tail got bigger or if there's something else in your planning? And also you had a good quarter from a sales standpoint I might add the best one you've had in a while.
Joe backlog is a function of obviously contracts and the genuine performance of contracts.
A contributor to our backlog this year is the NATO AGS contract.
It extends over 5 years or so.
So when you get a contract like that it adds to your overall backlog numbers as well as the period of performance that goes with that.
So that's principally the factor that you're seeing that's contributing to growth in backlog dollars and you perform those contracts as I said over about a 5-year period of time.
Research Division</strong> So it's just AGS? NATO AGS.
And Joe in my earlier commentary I sort of went through the components of the -- of about roughly $1 billion differential in sales.
So I don't know if you caught that commentary but it might be helpful in addressing your question as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the next one the second one is just we're all focused right here on the sequestration and the CR and everything.
Wes when you look out a little further or not even that much further.
You have this Jammer this Next Gen Jammer competition.
Could you comment on that and your teaming arrangement there with Exelis and what led you down that path? And then really any other competitive situations that you see over the next year to 2 for the company that you consider important? There's a whole variety of activities that we're pursuing and I like your perspective on it that we all do need to keep looking down the road because the nation's going to continue to need a Defense Industrial Base and we're going to continue to need that technological superiority that the industrial base provides.
Next Generation Jammer is an exciting opportunity.
We've been working on that now for some time.
Our teaming with Exelis was driven by a view of how do we bring the very best offering to our customer.
And we saw in the team at Exelis some great capability that when combined with ours we believe is a compelling offer.
So that relationship is going well and I'm looking forward to continuing it.
There are whole series of opportunities of that nature and some even larger scale as we look on the horizon.
Clearly both the Air Force and the Navy and I would add to that the intelligence community really need to position their capabilities to align with the nation's evolving national security strategy.
This pivot to Asia-Pacific has brought implications on the types of capabilities that are going to be needed that range from aircraft unmanned and manned.
They range to sensor systems the C4ISR domain.
And also cyber continues to be just a heck of a challenge for our country and we think it's going to continue to be a challenge.
So across that array of sort of broad mission areas there are whole array of specific programmatic targets both '13 and '14 that we are investing in and continuing to push hard on.
One point I would make in response to your question that even while we're seeing a perhaps tougher environment around the top lines we're committed to continuing to invest for the future here.
We think that -- we feel very strongly that it's going to be imperative that the Defense Industrial Base continue to bring innovation to the nation's capabilities and investing now is going to be important for our ability to serve for the long term.
Research Division</strong> Wes are you seeing the procurement groups at your classified customers having the same sort of freezing up same sort of issues that the broader customer set is going through right now? Or have there been more provisions for -- to enable them to operate more smoothly through this whole situation? Joe there's only so much I can say about that but I will say that they too are subject to the legislation around the CR and potentially if we were to get to the sequester those issues as well.
So they're having to address that in a very prudent manner and address it from a planning perspective as well.
So these budgetary effects sometimes just get a stamp on it associated with the Department of Defense but they hit everybody.
And I think it's important to understand that from a broad policymaking perspective that this really does span across government all the functions of government.
And the last question will come from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kind of 2 parts.
Wes the interesting thing about all that's gone on is the authorization bill protected Global Hawk in a big way and actually underscored how important it was.
Can you address sort of some of the other positives that came out of that and how do you sort of square that walk with what Congress' will there with in fact this meat-axe approach to solving a problem that doesn't? Yes it's hard to square that Howard I appreciate your question.
It's clear to us that when Congress and then particularly those in Congress who are charged with addressing specific matters associated with the functioning of our government when they're given the latitude to dig in and really address a particular issue they're able to do that strategically and they're able to make great decisions.
When there is this broad umbrella approach to trying to deal with the bigger challenges without dealing with the strategy you get to these other approaches that really don't make sense from a strategic perspective.
On Block 30 I would just say that we continue to be pleased with the performance in-theater of those systems.
They're  in very high demand by the combatant commanders and we were just delighted to see the Authorization Act support the continuation of Block 30.
We continue to work with the Air Force to provide more affordable approaches to sustaining that program because we think that will be something that's going to be important to the country's ability to conduct its surveillance mission for a long time.
So I would just say it's sort of a contrast between the processes when the Congressional processes that have been developed over many years to work on and deal with the authorization and appropriations for specific components of government are allowed to do their jobs I think we get to very good rational outcomes.
When there's this broad across-the-board meat-axe approach we get to really bad outcomes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just last just a follow-up.
I mean the numbers would say you don't have very many red programs or anything close to them but I'm sure there's always you're not happy with.
How would you evaluate maybe the bottom 10% of your performers at the moment? What are you trying to do to change that? Yes we've been doing a lot of work on that over the past few years.
Jim alluded earlier to the fact that it wasn't that long ago 4 or so years ago that we had a serious list of red programs that we kept talking to you all about it seemed like every quarter.
So the focus on performance in our company is not just about margin rates.
It goes to performance for our customers as well.
It starts with quality.
It starts with the quality of our processes and the quality of how we approach getting the work done and I'm not just talking about quality coming out the end of the production line.
It's the quality of engineering it's the qualitative of contracting it's all of those aspects.
So we're not perfect.
I wouldn't want anybody to hear that we think we are somehow reaching a point of perfection in any way.
We have still a lot of work to do as any honest organization would tell you.
But we have substantially reduced the number of programs in our portfolio that are demonstrating those performance variations in part because I think we've made good progress on our risk management methodologies.
And for those programs that are in sort of the bottom 10% I would characterize them as those where the risk that we've identified and been working to manage still find a way to manifest in some way but we're able to get on it more quickly and more aggressively and we've become a lot better about utilizing the resources of the entire corporation to go after them when those problems pop up.
So still work to do still I think to some extent inevitable in the technologically complex environment in which we operate but a lot better place than we were a few years ago.
This concludes the Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn it over to Jim for a couple of brief comments on some information that's always of interest to you all and then turn it over the Wes for final comments.
I'm kind of disappointed.
I didn't get my normal FAS/CAS pension question.
Let me try to answer what I would have anticipated to be your questions.
So we talked about our FAS and CAS guidance for 2013 and if I look forward to let's say 2015 2 years out I would expect based on no change in our assumptions that our FAS cost would decline about $130 million and that CAS cost would increase about $300 million or the net FAS/CAS change being about $430 million.
2014 is probably halfway in between the 2013 numbers and the 2014 numbers.
Spent some time this morning talking about the current environment the possibility that we're faced with at least an uncertain defense budget and likely a declining defense budget.
So clearly in that environment the emphasis on affordability is so important.
So growth in CAS cost isn't necessarily good as it does add to the affordability challenge that we all face in light of that environment.
So we are working really hard to reduce both FAS and our CAS cost.
And if we find ourselves in a rising interest rate environment as you know from our past conversations that rising interest rate has a near-term impact on our FAS cost and we would look at that today at being every 25 basis points is in a range of $85 million to $90 million.
However because of MAP-21 a rising interest rate environment over the near-term likely doesn't have nearly the impact on FAS as it does on CAS and on funding.
So ultimately besides rising interest rates over a long term the important levers for reducing or controlling your FAS cost or CAS cost rather CAS cost as well as funding are first of all investment performance.
Our 10-year compound annual rate of return is just under 10%.
And then you have to manage the provisions of your plans.
We have capped entrants to the pension plan back in 2008 as I recall.
So any new employees do not have the same pension benefits as the past.
And then last year we announced another change for our pension plans that essentially capped growth in compensation cost all of which are aimed at reducing that CAS cost on a go-forward basis.
So we've been working really hard.
I know you all are interested in those trends around FAS and CAS so I wanted to give you that flavor as you work your models but this is going to be an important item as we go forward.
So Wes with that I think we're ready to close.
Thanks Jim and Steve.
Let me just wrap up with a couple of thank yous.
First thank you to our employees for their incredible focus on performance and serving our customers.
Our 2012 outcomes are due to the hard work of our team and we all sincerely appreciate that.
And secondly thanks to all of you for your continuing interest in our company.
We appreciate you being with us on the call today.
Thanks everyone.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Northrop Grumman's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
My name is Sheverly and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Sheverly and welcome to Northrop Grumman's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
We do not have a PowerPoint presentation for the first quarter.
However we are posting an updated company overview that provides supplemental information on our 4 sectors.
You can access our new company overview at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Jim Palmer our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
Our first quarter performance demonstrates that our team's focus on affordability cost competitiveness and program performance continues to generate solid results.
This was another good quarter and I'm very proud of the track record that our team has built.
Despite slightly lower sales first quarter earnings per share increased 4% to $2.03.
The combination of strong operating performance from all 4 of our businesses and share repurchases drove this quarter's EPS growth.
Our first quarter sales declined by approximately $100 million or 1.5%.
Sales for our short-cycle businesses Information Systems and Technical Services declined by approximately $200 million which was partially offset by a $100 million sales increase at Aerospace Systems our longest-cycle business.
Jim will discuss trends within each sector but generally speaking top line pressure in our short-cycle businesses reflects federal budget turmoil continuing in-theater force reductions and our own portfolio-shaping actions.
Information Systems was most impacted by the pervasive budget uncertainty in the first quarter and the restrictive nature of the continuing resolution that expired on March 27.
Segment operating margin rate was strong at 12.3% and we reduced our year-over-year weighted average shares outstanding by 7%.
During the quarter we repurchased 6.5 million shares of our stock for approximately $431 million.
At the end of the first quarter approximately $1 billion remained on our share repurchase authorization.
First quarter cash from operations improved year-over-year and free cash flow improved by approximately $150 million.
We ended the quarter with a total backlog of $39.4 billion which reflects new awards of $4.7 billion or a 77% book-to-bill.
First quarter book-to-bill was impacted by our customers' reluctance or inability to award contracts or task orders.
Sequestration and the restrictive CR were significant overhangs.
And most major contract negotiations are taking longer due to the numerous issues our customers have to address in today's environment.
During the quarter we announced several actions to ensure further alignment with our customers' need for increasing affordability innovation and cost competitiveness.
We're establishing Aerospace Design Centers of Excellence in Florida California and New York for manned and unmanned aircraft and electronic attack.
We're also establishing 2 Aircraft Integration Centers of Excellence in Palmdale California and St.
Augustine Florida.
These actions are aimed at focusing and leveraging capabilities in our key areas of manned aircraft and unmanned systems.
Taking a Center of Excellence approach will allow us to preserve knowledge and critical skills across a changing program base.
We're continuing to close and consolidate numerous facilities across the company.
These actions are aimed at improving our cost competitiveness by reducing our facility's footprint and leveraging our enterprise-wide capacity in the most efficient and cost-effective manner.
Looking ahead we now have a fiscal year 2013 appropriations bill in place.
Sequestration of course is now in effect and our customers are in the process of making the programmatic decisions necessary to comply with the reduced budget levels.
I'd also note that the President has submitted a fiscal year 2014 budget.
The administration's budget does not include sequestration highlighting the importance of continuing to adequately fund our national security efforts.
However if Congress does not take legislative action to avoid the continuation of sequestration approximately $50 billion in additional spending reductions will be required in FY 2014.
In addition to these budget considerations Secretary Hagel's review of National Defense strategy is expected at the end of May.
This review may inform additional programmatic decisions as well as the upcoming quadrennial defense review.
All of this is creating a high degree of turmoil as our customers navigate these budget crosscurrents.
We share the concerns of our Pentagon leadership that damage to national security may be irreversible under a prolonged sequestration.
With few exceptions we were pleased to see that the President's fiscal year 2014 budget supported many of our largest programs.
Funding for the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye was increased 25%.
21 EA-18G Growlers were requested at roughly double last year's funding.
F-35 units were maintained and space programs like SBIRS Advanced EHF and the James Webb Space Telescope were sufficiently funded.
We believe it is important that the budget provides $13 billion for cyber-related activities.
The Department of Defense designated Cybersecurity as a key investment area and increased funding in this area by more than 20% to $4.7 billion.
We were also pleased the budget continues to support Global Hawk Block 30 and Block 40 operations for the Air Force.
Our high-altitude long-endurance unmanned franchise continues to be well-positioned in both the domestic and international markets.
Growth in our domestic efforts will be driven by the Navy's Triton program.
And on the international front we are ramping up on NATO AGS and continuing our efforts on Germany's EURO HAWK.
Turning to our financial outlook for the remaining of the year we're confirming the guidance we provided in January.
We now have an appropriations bill in place.
We have received some specific sequestration-related program directives.
To date these are not large amounts in the aggregate and they are being offset by more positive trends in other areas.
So without additional definitive action on specific programs our prior guidance represents our current estimate of this year's financial results although we recognize uncertainty remains regarding the implementation of sequestration.
While we are not yet able to determine all program-specific impacts we expect the reduced FY 2013 budget levels will result in lower 2013 awards and the related impacts to company revenues earnings and cash flows likely will trail the reduced awards.
We continue to expect sales of approximately $24 billion EPS of $6.85 to $7.15 cash from operations of $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion and free cash flow of $1.7 billion to $2 billion before discretionary pension contributions.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My comments will focus on the first quarter results and of course our 2013 guidance.
As Wes said another very solid quarter.
Our employees continue to focus on performance and execution in a very difficult and demanding environment and I want to add my congratulations to our team for a job very well done.
Turning to the sectors.
Aerospace Systems sales increased 4% or about $100 million.
The single largest driver was the higher F-35 volume.
You might recall that the F-35 program transitioned to the units of delivery accounting method beginning with LRIP 5.
We delivered the first LRIP 5 units in last year's third quarter.
This quarter first quarter of 2013 we had 10 LRIP 5 deliveries compared with no LRIP 5 deliveries in last year's first quarter.
AS also had higher unmanned revenues this quarter as the NATO AGS and Fire Scout programs ramped up.
These positive trends were partially offset by a decline in space programs.
I view AS first quarter operating margin rate of 10.9% as supportive of our low- to mid-11% guidance for the year.
And we continue to expect sales of approximately $9.7 billion for the year at AS.
Turning to Electronic Systems.
First quarter sales were comparable to last year.
In-theater force tempo reduced infrared countermeasures and laser systems revenues by about $40 million.
Program completions in combat avionics and maritime systems reduced revenues by about another $60 million.
These impacts were essentially offset by higher volumes for international and space programs.
Operating income on an absolute basis was down 3% but margin rate was again outstanding at 17.2%.
You'll recall that in last year's first quarter we noted that ES had an unusually high level of net favorable adjustments particularly in combat avionics.
Net favorable adjustments at ES declined by $62 million this quarter but were partially offset by the reversal of a $26 million non-programmatic risk reserve.
The remainder of the improvement reflects higher overall margin rates resulting in part from last year's performance improvements.
Obviously it's early in the year and most of this year's risk and opportunities are still ahead of us but I expect that there may be some modest upside to the current guidance for ES sales and margin rate.
Information Systems first quarter sales declined by 9% with the single largest item in that decline being the $25 million transfer of intercompany efforts to our Enterprise Shared Services organization.
Before that item sales declined by about 8% due to lower volume across a broad number of programs.
No single program accounted for a material amount of the total decline.
Operating income declined as a result of lower sales and a lower level of net favorable adjustments than in the prior year.
Although margin rate declined it was still strong at 10.2%.
And at this point in the year we are maintaining our sales guidance of approximately $6.7 billion with an operating margin rate in the mid to high 9%s although there is likely some modest downside sales risk of the uncertain impacts of sequestration on this short-cycle business.
Moving to Technical Services.
First quarter sales declined by 4% operating income declined by 7% portfolio shaping impacted sales by about $30 million and lower ICBM and KC-10 volume impacted sales by about another $40 million.
These declines were partially offset by higher volumes for new programs awarded in 2012.
Operating income reflects lower sales and an operating margin rate comparable to prior year.
We continue to expect sales of about $2.7 billion with a mid to high 8% margin rate.
First quarter segment operating margin rate on an overall basis was 12.3% compared to 12.7% in last year's first quarter.
This reflects a $91 million decline in net favorable adjustments in the quarter.
About 2/3 of that change was in Electronic Systems but as I noted earlier that was partially offset by this $26 million reserve reversal.
The remaining performance improvement reflects as I said earlier the higher booking rates across our portfolio resulting from at least in part last year's EAC adjustments.
I would also note that we had a lower tax rate this quarter.
As you are aware the American Taxpayer Relief Act reinstated the research tax credits for 2012 and 2013.
So this quarter's lower effective tax rate reflects about $20 million benefit for those credits this quarter.
That amount includes the full effect of 2012 credits and 1 quarter of expected 2013 credits.
Cash from operations improved by about $100 million compared to last year and as I think many of you know our first quarter cash flow is typically the lowest of the year.
As Wes indicated we are maintaining our guidance from cash from operations and free cash flow.
And I would remind you that all those estimates are before the after-tax impact of any discretionary pension contributions.
And shortly after the quarter-end we made a $500 million discretionary contribution to our pension plans.
These tax-efficient contributions avoid any future funding spikes and continue to be an effective use of our cash.
I would note that over the last 10 years our average annual planned investment returns have exceeded our long-term expected rate of return by well over 100 basis points.
That superior investment performance has positively impacted our funded status reduced future CAS cost and improved affordability and I believe provides a competitive advantage.
Before we move to Q&amp;A I'd just like to add my perspective on 2013 sales guidance as we said last year or last quarter our initial 2013 guidance did not assume sequestration.
And as Wes noted to date sequestrated-related downside sales risks haven't been that significant and have generally been in our short-cycle business.
I would characterize those reductions as pretty much consistent with our expectations in a declining budget environment.
So -- and to date the reductions that we have seen have been largely offset by positive trends at Electronic Systems.
So in thinking about this barring any specific program cancellations or terminations we don't expect fiscal 2014 budget debate or the results of Secretary Hagel's strategic review to significantly impact our 2013 sales.
So given those assumptions we have maintained our 2013 sales guidance.
Steve I think at this point we're ready to take any questions.
Thanks Jim.
[Operator Instructions] So Sheverly we're ready to begin.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies LLC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wes I want to talk for a second about UAVs and this a little bit of a fine point.
But the FY '13 budget approved the -- or supported the Block 30 Global Hawk.
And the commentary outside of what Congress has appropriated would say the program has problems and you can see that accordingly in the FY '14 budget.
Could you sort of address -- I mean obviously some of your commentary did but could you put a little bit more of a fine point on this? If the funding is there then won't you get it? Yes Howard thanks for the question.
Let me just kind of back up and talk about Block 30 a little bit more broadly.
We continue to be pleased and I think the customer continues to be very pleased with the in-theater performance of the Block 30 systems.
They're in very high demand.
They're running at a very high utilization rate.
The combatant commanders don't seem to be able to get enough of them.
So that's the -- sort of the operational reality of what's going on with Block 30 today.
We're in this interesting period of time where the nation is having to make some decisions around budgets and the departments are feeling very squeezed on their ability to fit everything in and meet all the demands of both the Congress if you will from a budgetary perspective as well as the operational commanders out there in the theater.
So inevitably there are decisions or recommendations put forward for budgetary consideration that the Congress has to debate and make decisions on.
And Block 30 I think is sort of a classic example of that.
In particular it is a brand-new system.
And so when you do the calculation on the cost component brand-new systems take a little bit of time to work their operating costs down the curve down the operating cost curve.
And if you're in a budgetary mode where you're trying to squeeze everything in for the next year and you're not all the way down that curve it's easy to come up with a different conclusion.
And so that's where Congress has responsibility to look at things both near term and long term.
And we saw that in this last cycle where Congress took a view of sort of the longer term given the investment that's been made in Block 30.
So we were very pleased to see the continued support for Block 30 in the actions that Congress took with the 2013 both the authorization and the appropriation process.
But at the same time the Air Force has real budget pressures and that's a reality the Air Force is having to work their way through.
This turns out to be more about the cost of operating than it really does in terms of the remaining procurement.
If you look at the last of the lots of Block 30 to be put on contract that will be Lot 11 there's really only 3 more aircraft in that Lot 11.
So the budget math here has to go to what it takes to sustain this system in its operations.
And so that's on us.
We have got to work with the Air Force to continue to address the cost of operating Block 30s.
We're doing that.
We're putting forward some proposals recommendations for the Air Force to consider.
But I think it's simply a reflection of this budget environment that we're in that's forcing a decision space that's perhaps more narrow.
And we all might want it to be given the longer-term perspective of capabilities for the nation.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Wes I would like to dive a little bit deeper on the comment that you made about 2014 and the fact that the impact of sequester is kind of marginal this year but that what we ought to be really focused on with sequester is 2014 and more importantly that revenues and earnings are going to kind of follow the bookings rate.
So kind of leads logically to your expectations around book-to-bill through this year and how you think that that actually translates into the trajectory as we move out into 2014 keeping in mind that you'll of course be able to continue to draw on the backlog that you already have.
But just any more granularity that you can offer on 2014 I think would be helpful for everybody on the call.
Thanks Jason.
I think it actually might be helpful just to step back and remind everybody of the mechanics here because that really turns into the outcome.
So I think we're all trying to sort our way through.
And the analogy I would use would be how does the pig move through the snake? Although in this case I wouldn't want to impugn the population of pigs by calling them a sequester.
So maybe it's the rat moving through a snake or something.
It's a delayed effect approach.
The sequester reduced the amount of money that Congress allows to be committed by the Department of Defense and by the other federal agencies.
So it really starts there.
The in-year effect of the sequester is a reduction in the department's ability to obligate fundamentally.
That reduction takes some time to translate into revenue impacts as the department actually has to turn a reduced level appropriations into specific contractual commitments.
And then those contractual commitments once they're made they play out over the life of the contracts as revenues.
So that creates this delayed effect in realizing the impact on revenues resulting from the sequester.
And if you kind of stand back and look at the different types of businesses in our company and in our industry the shorter-cycle businesses will realize this effect the first of course because that delay effect is shorter.
And the longer-cycle businesses will see it over a longer period of time.
And I think as you reflected in your question awards is really the leading indicator of that effect.
And as I think I indicated in my remarks we expect to see the impacts on revenue earnings and of course cash flows trail that impact on awards over time.
And as I think Jim mentioned when we were thinking about our guidance obviously we're having to reflect the best knowledge that we have today.
That guidance does assume that the sequester does not result in cancellations or terminations of our significant programs.
But clearly there's still uncertainty regarding the ultimate impact of the sequester particularly as we look out into next year.
And I think your question went to what should we be thinking about in terms of the effects on awards and book-to-bill? I wish I knew.
We have yet to see that as we go through this year.
I think the real test will be what does the third and fourth quarter of this year look like? So essentially the last quarter of this fiscal year and the first quarter of the new fiscal year.
That will inform us a lot.
It certainly will inform us on how 2014 will look.
And it's very likely that this is going to negatively impact sales in 2014.
I'll say it as clearly as I can in that regard.
To think that the sequester somehow just dissipates and goes away and doesn't impact the future is putting your head in the sand.
So we expect there will be some continuing impact over time.
The magnitude of that impact in 2014 is hard to predict.
As I indicated we've got a bunch of things in front of us.
We have to work our way through the actual implementation of the current sequester.
We have the debt ceiling issues in front of us over the course of the summer which may or may not impact the outcome for the budgets for next year and how Congress deals with the President's budget that was put forward.
And we also have in front of us the overall strategy review that Secretary Hagel has launched which is standing back to take kind of a broader look at the national strategy in light of overall budget constraints.
So obviously it would be a little bit foolish to try and speculate on how that works out for 2014.
But in aggregate given the impact of the sequester this year I think it's fair to project that it will have a negative impact on 2014 revenues.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow on that because when you look at your shorter-cycle businesses particularly on the Information Systems side backlogs did come down in Q1.
And you've been very clear for some time that this is where you could see more of an effect.
And then if we head into sequestration my assumption would be that there could be some impact in '13 and then more in '14.
When you take apart that business where are you seeing the most maybe downside in Q1 or the most risk going forward either in terms of customer civil defense intel or business type? Can you characterize that a little bit? Yes Doug this is Jim.
As I said in my comments really the declines we saw this year or this quarter quarter-over-quarter were across the broad portfolio of programs.
I don't know that I would characterize it as necessarily in 1 particular area or not.
Again I think as we all know this the shortest cycle business we have.
It's likely to be the first impacted.
And it's probably also likely to be the first that starts to turn up when there is an upturn.
I do think there are some effects in there that probably flow through before others.
We know -- I think everyone is aware that the O&amp;M budgets are under the most immediate stress.
So the components of the IS business that connect to the O&amp;M accounts see it first.
The Army budget is also a component of sales and IS is I think probably even under more pressure from a longer perspective not necessarily quarter-to-quarter but from a longer perspective.
So if I had to pick apart sort of the customer community drivers I would say those are more immediate.
But the reality is as Jim said all of our customers across the board are dealing with this.
There was not real flexibility provided to the department with the [indiscernible] sequester.
So it's kind of as we thought it would be should this happen kind of across the board.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So intel civil agencies DoD all sort of the same dynamic? Yes they're all having to deal with the sequestered budget amounts and they're all dealing with it in somewhat different ways.
But ultimately and I'm not just talking about the quarter I'm talking about our kind of -- our view over the year we expect to see it manifest kind of across that board.
And Doug to be real clear here we really haven't seen that large of impacts from sequestration at this point.
Largely the declines that we saw were what we -- I would characterize as expected based on an overall budget decline environment.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Wes wanted to dig a little more actually into Information Systems.
And the backlog decline has been noted and your comments about that have been noted.
Just bigger picture though this business is going what I would characterize and maybe you'd disagree in a direction – an un-Northrop-like direction.
You guys have been very clear about your pursuit of profitable business and we see the margins in that segment.
But pricing is getting tougher and barriers to entry are -- always have been low.
How are you thinking about navigating through this environment where really the business is going in a different direction from what you like to do with your businesses? Yes Joe thanks for the question.
Our approach to that and we've been at this now for a few years in IS has been to step away from the components of that space that are going in the directions that you described.
And so part of what you've seen in terms of our top line in IS have been very focused decisions about where we're just not going to be in that part of the market.
And as I said we've been at that for a while.
I think you can see the benefit of that thinking in our -- in terms of our operating margin rate because we've been able to continue to generate good margins in the space by being much more selective in the parts of it where we compete.
So if I pull that thread a bit IS has probably more hardware in it than I think most people realize.
If you look at the work that we do for the Department of Defense and the communications arena where within IS we're building the C&amp;I avionics for the Joint Strike Fighter.
If you look at actually much of the work that we do for the Army that has hardware in content those parts of the business certainly require a lot more engineering content they require intellectual property investment and create positions for us that are not just the sort of commodity IT business framework that is often seen in the space characterized by IS.
If you look at the broader systems work that we do that is generally characterized by also a lot of engineering content whether we're building large command and control systems.
And missile defense is sort of a classic example of the work that we do in IS in that regard.
Those areas are classes of businesses that when you compare within our IS sector to other companies other companies sometimes put that in something they would call electronics or missile defense or some other nomenclature for the title of the business.
So I am not as concerned about what we're seeing in the more commodity part of what I would sort of call the IT services businesses out there because that's a relatively small part of our business.
We do have some of that and we've made decisions to keep pieces of it where it connects to the higher value sort of longer investment perspective components of the business.
So I do wonder sometimes if we're doing ourselves a disservice by calling it information systems.
But quite frankly in terms of what it actually does it provides information systems to our customer community.
And I don't want to re-label it just from – put a different banner on it from a Street perspective.
I want to make sure that our team understands their charter and what they're out there to do.
But the overall vector for that business I think is good over the longer period of time.
Clearly as I said it is a shorter-cycle business.
Most parts of it are.
And so we'll see some of those effects sooner.
But when I think about this for the long term I like what I see I like what we're doing and I think it's going to continue to be an important part of our company.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Wes just on the back end of that question then I have another one could you characterize maybe give us a ratio in that business of what you'd call price-sensitive to less price-sensitive? Let me ask Steve to do that Steve Movius.
Steve as most of you know was formally the CFO of our IS business and I think has a good framework for describing that.
Yes I'd be happy to.
Information Systems really look at it in a couple of pieces.
One would be kind of services piece with a lot of what I would call high-end engineering content contracts where we've been with a customer for oftentimes very extended periods of time quite a bit of that with restricted customers.
And I would say that most of our competition in that space are folks that -- kind of the Tier 1 folks that you know pretty well.
On the systems side that's about 60% of our business.
And again that's by and large very few of the IT competitors in that space.
Again mostly the Tier 1 guys where you have to have significant capabilities to be able to compete effectively and where the customers' value proposition is more on what you're delivering to them versus particularly a lower hourly rate so to speak.
You might think about it in a services world.
So I hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> No it certainly does.
Then just Wes if I go quickly at another direction.
One of your peer companies talked a bit about nondefense adjacencies in a recent earnings call.
Could you talk a little bit about where some of your opportunities are and then to any extent that you might be further contemplating portfolio shaping? My perspective on adjacencies is it's a perspective that any healthy company should always be looking at its portfolio of capabilities and figuring out how to create value.
I think the experience of our industry suggests that the longer you have to stretch out your tape measure to measure how adjacent it is the less likely it is that you're going to really create value.
So you have to be very thoughtful both around the real -- the practical application of the technology and a company's ability to understand and navigate the channels to market.
It turns out channels to market is every bit as important as the product that you think you have.
So our experience generally has been that there's more value to be gained by partnering effectively with other companies that simply have those channels to market and understand the economics and the consumer if you will demands that are in those spaces.
So I would say there is a value creation opportunity out there for the broader use of technology.
You just have to be very thoughtful about how you pursue that and the degree to which you focus the resource of the company in that direction versus sticking to your knitting.
Research Division</strong> But you wouldn't characterize it as a driver of your forward strategy? No I would not.
It's more an opportunity space that I would say that we look at and that comes and goes over time depending on where those technologies might actually connect.
If you turn back the clock to the latter part of the '90s there was a rapid growth in the telecom space that needed a class of technologies that derived from the defense industry.
So a number of companies ours included were able to navigate that and creates some meaningful value during that time through some very thoughtful approaches to partnering with other companies to leverage that technology.
So it's a little bit dependent on what else is going on in the economy and where the needs are.
And that's really I would say the way we think about it.
We're mindful of it we look at it but it's not the primary motivator of our strategy obviously.
We're a global security company and we keep that in mind.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question which is if I just look at your net favorable adjustments and I back those out it still looks like margins were up kind of 30 basis points from December and about 90 versus last year.
So I guess the first question is really what do you attribute that real change in performance to as to why the underlying earnings still seems to be better? And then should we use this call it $225 million of favorable adjustments as the likely number for the future quarters this year? Yes Sam I haven't done your math but as I noted earnings adjustments are down this quarter I would think to a more if you will normal level.
Last year admittedly was -- had very favorable positive adjustments.
Didn't think they would be able to be sustained at that level.
Ultimately the margin rates for the 4 sectors in the company reflected in our overall guidance.
I feel comfortable with that.
Clearly we're going to push the organization to do better.
Part of the improvement as I noted in margin rates is a result of the actions that we've taken over time that allowed us to harvest the benefit on our existing backlog of contracts.
We'll realize that benefit over the life of that backlog set of contracts.
In a go-forward basis we'll negotiate new contracts reflecting the current cost at that point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Loomis with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for giving the detail on the services.
Just kind of staying along that theme you talked about the impact of sequestration early thought.
And then -- but I look at the guidance for the year on both -- looking at the 2 separately Technical Services and then IS.
So on Technical Services if we look at the guidance for the full year it was down – actual was down 4%.
But it implies other quarters have to be down 13% to 14%.
Can you just talk about what the main drivers causing those lower year-over-year comparisons? And then on the other side with IS given the full year guidance it looks like it's going to be relatively stable throughout the other remaining 3 quarters.
Yet you talked about how sequestration would impact the shorter-cycle side.
So is there things that are happening positively on the IS side to kind of offset that later in the year? Yes.
In terms of guidance you might imagine in this environment we look at a whole number of -- a whole bunch of possible scenarios that have different sales levels for all the different organizations.
And as I do that look at all those potentials as I said I come back to an answer that tells me that our overall guidance is supportive of what may -- what I would expect to happen for the year.
Yes there's going to be some variation among the sectors as we go through the year and get a better clarification around whether or not there's going to be specific programs affected by sequestration.
The timing of when those occur will have an impact on this year's sales.
But again on an overall basis I feel good about the overall guidance.
I would point out that TS for example there are some programmatic effects that occur this year.
The ICBM program will be down on a year-over-year basis just as part of that programmatic change in the program and that has been reflected in our thoughts about overall guidance at the beginning of the year for the TS environment as well as the total company.
Bill it's Wes.
Let me -- I'll just add to what Jim had to say on this just one other little piece to think about.
And I think this is kind of a broader market perspective.
Our customers are clearly feeling the most intensity of the pressure in the near term around the O&amp;M part of the budget.
And obviously the appropriations process tried to relieve a little bit of that that they went through.
But any of the businesses that are tightly connected to the O&amp;M part of the budget when we think through all the factors that Jim just described that's a factor that really weighs in to our thought process.
If you think about what's going on at DoD itself they pay for their civilian workforce out of that O&amp;M budget and they're talking still about having to furlough some folks.
And when we're down to that level of furloughing and impacting readiness we've heard the Secretary of the Air Force talk about just these awful effects of having to stand down training flights.
When we're having to make those kinds of decisions as a nation relative to the impacts of the sequester it just really makes that part of the budget risk factors stand up for us and makes us even more sensitive to potential decisions our customers might have to make in light of the things that are weighing on them already.
So I just think it's important to keep in mind what our customers are having to work their way through in light of this somewhat ridiculous budget situation.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wes I'd like to follow on from what you just said about the state of play so to speak.
The customer's clearly got a lot of pressure at the moment.
I was wondering if you're seeing any of that cascading down to you on maybe the price or terms of contract situation as obviously they could save some money I guess by the defense industry booking lower margins.
The way I would characterize that is things are taking longer to get done and I think part of that is just a reflection of the turmoil that our customers are having to deal with.
And there's always a natural inclination to try and push back on the margin rates and other aspects of the contracts.
Our approach to that has been and I don't think we're alone in this when you're looking at a total cost picture the place to go to save the money is the 90% not the 10%; the 90% of cost not the 10% of fee or whatever the right percentages are on a particular contract.
So our approach has been to very aggressively go after cost cost from a cost structure standpoint and cost from a programmatic standpoint.
And I think in the places where we're able to demonstrate to our customer community that we are making progress in that regard I think that helps this overall discussion immensely.
In the areas where the customers aren't satisfied with progress on that then yes there is a tougher discussion around what is the appropriate fee or incentive structure to help motivate improvements in overall cost.
And so yes I would say there's more intensity around that.
But to-date I think we've been in a position where we've been able to work with our customer community to get to outcomes that we view as fair.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just a fine point on that.
Are you seeing the customer potentially trying to transfer more risk in the contracts that you sign up to as a way of perhaps saving some money going forward? Each time we get into a discussion around an acquisition approach the ultimate manifestation of that risk is contract type.
And there is I would say more intensity around what should be fixed price what should be fixed price incentive versus cost plus.
And I would say we were seeing a little bit of a tilt I think almost an overcorrection tilt in the direction of fixed price or fixed price incentives for a while.
If you look at the communication that Frank Kendall has been putting out and I would say all of the service acquisition executives have been working on I think there's a growing recognition that that might have gone a little bit too far and that there are really some things that the department really wants to be cost plus or perhaps FPI that were getting pushed towards FFP.
So I think there's a natural pendulum sort of cycle that we see in this and my sense is it's -- there's a little bit of a correction occurring right now.
But the pressures of the budget environment do cause individual program offices to have to rethink that and figure out how they actually do their budgeting from a total cost not just what they're putting on contract but also their margin or their risk assessment.
So it's a bigger -- I would say a bigger part of the dialogue bigger part of the discussion.
But again that's on us as well that's on the industry and in our company in particular to be very clear about what that risk balance is.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a general question.
Secretary Hagel has sort of emphasized priority on cyber.
Your handout suggests that cyber is about a little under $2 billion out of IS's revenue.
Everyone defines cyber business differently.
Could you tell us when you talk of your cyber solutions what do you have in that number? And what are its prospects for growth and profitability this year and next? Yes Cai it's Wes.
Let me just say sort of broadly yes I agree with you everybody defines cyber somewhat differently.
It is one of these fields that's rapidly emerging.
And as we all begin to realize and by we I include our customer community the tentacles of cyber and the necessity of connecting it so intimately to other components of the floor structure I don't think there's going to be an exact precise definition that everybody can look to and say "That's an airplane and that's cyber." Right? I think it's going to be one of these things where we're going to have to build our way into a common understanding.
So as we have worked our definition of it it has emerged over time from sort of the initial view that was all about maybe defense and offense in the network domain to now include situational awareness more broadly in the network domain.
And then beyond that it became clear that we needed to embed cyber capabilities into platforms and other systems that we're selling.
So there's an embedded component of it.
And then I would say even beyond that there's a growing recognition of cyber as an integral component and perhaps the right words for basically the broader category of non-kinetic capability that is inclusive of things that may have historically been called electronic warfare.
So we are thoughtful in how we look at each piece and how we describe it but I think what you're seeing from us is more a reflection of the way that we would characterize the components of our portfolio that match to our customers' emerging definition of cyber.
And as that definition continues to change we're going to try and keep up with it and actually help influence the perspectives on those tentacles of cyber.
So I apologize if that's not a precise definition for you but it is a reflection of an evolving field and a field whose tentacles are increasingly intertwined in just about every other component of the defense architecture.
So given that to the second part of your question growth I mentioned in my comments that we were pleased to see the amount of funding that is evident in the President's budget for what I would say is more traditional cyber the definition of defense offense and situational awareness.
But there are components of the President's budget associated with the other parts of the defense infrastructure that are reflective of the need to embed cyber in those as well.
So it's probably not going to help from a modeling perspective what I just said but I think from an understanding perspective it's important to recognize that this is going to be a moving target for a while which I think emphasizes its importance.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think the question really was how fast is it growing? I mean it's a priority but is it growing? Or is it relatively stable until some event in the future? It's growing.
It's growing.
It's growing.
It's growing rapidly.
And trying to put a number on it would have to pin down the current state definition on any particular day.
But it's double-digit growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just since we made it this far in the call and haven't talked about 1 of 2 topics that are so near and dear to your heart Jim and -- capital deployment and pension I figured I'd at least knock one of them out.
The guidance explicitly states that you're not considering a debt ceiling breach government shutdown scenario but obviously that's a risk you've got to think about sort of tail risk you got to think about in your planning.
When you think about your stance on capital deployment share repurchase as we get closer to that should expect to see some conservatism in how you manage the balance sheet and how you think about share repurchase? Or is that -- are you in a position where you think you can continue the way you have in the past despite that risk? Yes.
Carter I'd characterize -- our approach here is to be mindful of all the risk that are inherent in our business and then the plan for the possibilities that they all may occur; at the same time to be balanced if you will across the -- we don't guide on a quarterly basis obviously on share repurchases.
So we've talked about our plan for the year.
I really don't see a change in that plan at this point in time.
I think we're on pace to do that.
And at the same time we're mindful of the potential risk around the debt ceiling situation here in the summer and feel comfortable that we're able to deal with that as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Since it's Q1 I'll save the pension question for next quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Wes I'm going to go to the high level on sequestration one more time.
And the only thing I'm trying to get at is for the last couple of years 4% organic decline has kind of been I think what you've showed 4% to 5%.
And this year pretty much the whole industry is at 5%.
And Jim I think you qualified that as being more reflective of a general defense spending declining environment.
So I'm just kind of curious are you feeling better about the industry and your in particular ability to manage sequestration? Because it seems like they're giving you a lot of lead time to see it coming.
And is it just going to turn out to look like an extension of a down cycle? Hard to tell yet.
The challenge here obviously that we're all struggling through in '13 is we've got to deal with a full year sequester in half a year.
And so our customers are just really struggling to sort that out.
And I have to say I admire them for how they're managing their way through this because it is so challenging.
Trying to predict where this goes on a '14 or '15 basis is difficult from a variety of perspectives that I [indiscernible] before trying to predict how the FY '14 budget process will work out trying to predict the results of the strategy review those are all sort of big challenges.
We are managing.
And I would say broadly across the industry we are managing because we are having to scale to go with what's happening.
And it's not what we'd prefer to do but it's what we know how to do and we are going to do it.
And having some lead time on decision-making is always helpful so we can try and do this in a way that is most efficient.
But ultimately as I've said very broadly and I don't want anyone to sort of hear that we're relaxed about this because we are not the impact of the sequester will have long-term impacts even if it just gets turned off for '14 and beyond.
The fact that we had it this year will have a ripple effect.
And if it goes on very long I think just about anyone in our industry would tell you we are concerned about the impacts on our supply chain and we're concerned about the impacts on our workforce and we're concerned about how long it takes to turn the engines back on when the nation needs it.
And history shows the nation will need it.
So I don't want anyone to hear that this is just sort of business as usual we'll figure it all out and everything will be fine.
It's the wrong answer for our country.
Research Division</strong> But if you had to make the bet would '14's decline be an accelerating decline versus '13? I'm not going to speculate.
It's -- there are a lot -- there are so many factors out there.
I think it would be foolish to speculate.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Yes.
Two questions actually.
Jim I was wondering if you could quantify at all the potential cash flow impact from what the Pentagon's talked about of switching for milestone payments to progress payments and also the effect that's slowing payments that have been accelerated last year for small business.
I'll take the second one first.
Move away from the so-called quick pay methodology that occurred in the first quarter impacted cash flows by I would estimate about $100 million negatively impacted cash flows by about $100 million.
In terms of movement from milestone payments to progress payments George you'd have to look at the broad portfolio of programs.
It is as you know just a timing question.
You do get paid.
It's just how quickly do you get paid.
And so we continue to work these issues on a program-by-program basis contract-by-contract if you will.
Some progress sometimes not so good.
But again I feel good about the overall guidance for cash for the year.
Okay.
And then if I might one for you Wes.
I mean you talked about trying to focus on the 90% of the cost rather than the profit margin.
But as you commented in an uncertain environment that you're in where you don't have the same ability to see ahead like you might have had I mean how do you manage getting cost down in that environment so it doesn't wind up having an impact on the margins? Fundamentally our biggest lever has been our ability to manage our overhead structure in the company.
And as I've said on earlier calls we've been on a several year path to reduce headcount and reduce facilities as well as address other components of that cost structure including pension that we think have been necessary to help address that.
The next phase of it obviously is programmatic.
And every program in our company is addressing that in some meaningful way.
And ultimately it depends on the nature of the individual program.
So we look at cost in a total composite.
We've had I would say more flexibility or opportunity in going after the overall cost structure overhead cost components.
But we are being very aggressive on it program by program.
George if I may.
If you really think about our business we are a consolidation conglomeration of a bunch of programs or contracts.
Much of the cost on any of those contracts are people-related cost and supply cost.
So the vast majority of our cost is essentially tied to our individual contracts or programs and we can respond based on what happens to those contracts or programs.
So it takes a lot of disciplined management across the enterprise.
I want to thank all of you for your interest in our company.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session and I'd like to turn the call over to Wes for final comments.
Thanks Steve.
I'd just like to wrap up today by thanking our employees for all that they're doing to ensure that we continue to support the men and women of our military services and our intelligence communities as they deal with this very challenging budget environment.
The sequester does have real negative impacts on these great people who serve our country and it's imperative that we all give them our support.
So thanks again for all of you on the call today for your continuing interest in our company.
Thanks for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Goodbye.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
My name is Carla and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Carla and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
We have provided a PowerPoint presentation for the second quarter which you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Jim Palmer our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
We're very pleased with our second quarter results.
They were achieved through the hard work and dedication of the entire Northrop Grumman team.
As a company we continue to focus on performance and effective cash deployment as major value drivers.
In the second quarter these efforts drove a 9% increase in earnings per share and strong cash from operations and free cash flow.
This quarter's EPS growth reflects solid sales higher segment operating income and lower weighted average shares outstanding.
Second quarter sales were slightly higher than last year at $6.3 billion.
Segment operating income increased 2% and segment operating margin rate increased 20 basis points to 12.7%.
Jim will provide more detail on the sales and margin rate trends but the underlying drivers for this quarter's performance were higher sales and strong operating income and margin rates for our longer-cycle businesses: Aerospace Systems and Electronic Systems.
These positive trends were partially offset by budget-related top line pressure in our shorter-cycle businesses: Information Systems and Technical Services.
Even considering that top line pressure as I look across our businesses all in all it was an outstanding operating performance from our team.
As a result of our strong first half results we are raising our sales guidance to approximately $24.3 billion and we are raising EPS guidance to a range of $7.60 to $7.80.
We continue to expect cash from operations of $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion and free cash flow of $1.7 billion to $2 billion.
Guidance for both of these cash metrics is before discretionary pension contributions.
We continue to be focused on deploying cash to create long-term value.
In May we raised the dividend 11% our 10th consecutive annual dividend increase.
Our board also authorized an additional $4 billion for share repurchases.
When we announced this new authorization we indicated our goal of retiring approximately 25% of our then outstanding common stock or about 60 million shares by the end of 2015 market conditions permitting.
During the second quarter we repurchased 6.1 million shares of stock for $489 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 12.6 million shares of our stock for approximately $900 million.
We anticipate share repurchases will reduce 2013 weighted average shares outstanding by approximately 7%.
At the end of the second quarter approximately $4.6 billion remained in our share repurchase authorization.
In addition to share repurchases during the quarter we also made a $500 million discretionary contribution to our pension plans.
We also raised $2.85 billion in new debt in the second quarter.
We used $850 million of these proceeds to retire debt due in 2014 and 2015 resulting in $2 billion of net new debt.
These transactions lowered our cost of borrowing took advantage of historically low interest rates and allowed us to extend our weighted average debt maturity.
The additional cash from this financing activity enhances our financial flexibility in today's dynamic budget environment.
We ended the quarter with a total backlog of $37.7 billion which reflects gross new awards of $5.5 billion and 87% book-to-bill.
Year-to-date gross new awards totaled $10.3 billion for a book-to-bill of 83%.
During the first half of the year we received significant awards for programs such as F-35 Advanced EHF Global Hawk B-2 and the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye.
Generally speaking the pace of new awards continues to be impacted by the face of budget uncertainty.
Understandably this environment is producing fewer new awards and reducing spending on existing programs particularly in our shorter-cycle businesses.
While these businesses are experiencing more of an impact in the near term we continue to see their longer-term value creation potential as integral to our company's efforts in C4ISR Cyber and Logistics and Modernization.
Last month the DoD provided Congress with information on how fiscal year 2013 sequestration reductions will be distributed across spending accounts and funding lines.
At this point we do not see major disruptions to our 2013 revenues and the impacts that we are able to anticipate and quantify are reflected in our guidance.
Over the last several years we've been proactive in positioning the company for a declining budget environment and we continue to aggressively examine all elements of our cost structure.
As I've said before we believe that sequestration that's currently enacted will have serious negative consequences for our national security and will increasingly harm the defense industrial base over time.
While we won't be introducing '24 (sic) guidance until next year looking ahead we believe that reduced fiscal year 2013 budgets will result in lower 2013 awards and that the related impacts to company revenues earnings and cash flows likely will trail reduced awards.
The President's proposed fiscal year 2014 budget is $50 billion above the Budget Control Act Part II requirements.
Unless Congress acts to modify the Budget Control Act we expect fiscal year 2014 sequestration will be triggered in January of 2014 with so few congressional working days left until the end of this fiscal year and near-term agreement on 2014 appropriation seems unlikely.
And we are currently planning for another continuing resolution and the potential for another round of sequestration.
While the budget environment is unpredictable and disruptive in the short term we are positioning Northrop Grumman for the long term.
That means continuing to focus on aligning our portfolio with the enduring priority areas of investment for global security Unmanned C4ISR Cyber and Logistics and Modernization along with manned military aircraft.
It also means achieving and sustaining a high level of financial and program performance and effectively deploying our substantial cash resources to create value.
Before I turn the call over to Jim I'd like to congratulate the Navy and the Northrop Grumman X-47B team on making naval aviation history.
Over the last few weeks the X-47B achieved several technical milestones.
These achievements culminated in the first-ever fighter-sized unmanned aircraft demonstrating an arrested landing when the X-47B landed on the USS George H.W.
Bush on July 10.
The autonomous landing relied on computer-to-computer communications to establish the carrier's position and react to the dynamic variables associated with this type of landing.
Aircraft carrier landings are difficult and these technical milestones demonstrate that the Navy's goal of operating unmanned systems safely and effectively from aircraft carriers is well on its way to becoming a reality.
Together with the Navy we also achieved another major unmanned milestone in May with the successful first flight of the MQ-4C Triton.
Triton is designed to allow the Navy to monitor significantly larger areas of the ocean with greater persistence than currently possible.
Triton's first flight represents a critical step forward in supporting the Navy's future maritime surveillance mission around the world.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My comments will focus on the second quarter and year-to-date results as well as our 2013 guidance.
As Wes said this was another really good quarter.
Our team continues to focus on performance and execution and I personally want to add my appreciation for our team's continued focus and dedication.
Turning to the sectors.
Aerospace Systems sales increased more than $200 million or 9%.
The single largest driver was the higher F-35 volume.
We have delivered 11 LRIP 5 units this quarter compared with no LRIP 5 deliveries in the second quarter of 2012.
You will recall that with LRIP 5 the F-35 program transitioned from cost-to-cost revenue recognition to units-of-delivery accounting.
We delivered the first LRIP 5 units in the third quarter of last year.
Unmanned revenue also continues to increase.
While our Global Hawk program is maturing we'll continue to ramp up another unmanned program such as NATO AGS and Fire Scout.
Space revenues also increased due to higher volumes for AEHF and the James Webb Space Telescope programs.
Those increases in space were partially offset by lower volume for our restricted space programs.
AS operating margin increased 15% due to the higher sales and a $26 million increase in net favorable adjustments principally for space programs.
Based on year-to-date results we now expect AS 2013 sales of approximately $9.9 billion with a margin rate of approximately 12%.
Expected second half revenues are modestly lower due to fewer F-35 deliveries in the third and fourth quarter of this year.
During the first half of the year we delivered 21 F-35 units and 18 units are planned for the second half of the year.
Turning to Electronic Systems.
Sales rose 2%.
Higher revenue for international tactical sensors and space programs more than offset lower volume in other product areas such as navigation combat avionics maritime systems infrared countermeasures and laser systems.
Operating margin on the other hand increased 17% and operating margin rate increased 240 basis points to 18.2%.
The primary driver of the higher operating income is a $34 million increase in net favorable adjustments due to improved performance principally in our marine and space programs.
The remainder of the improvement reflects higher overall margin rates resulting in part from last year's favorable adjustments.
Based on year-to-date performance we now expect Electronic Systems sales to increase to at least $7.1 billion with an operating margin rate in the low 16% range.
Revenue guidance includes the continued ramp-up in international and space volume and margin rate guidance anticipates a lower level of favorable adjustments than in the first half of the year.
Transitioning to Information Systems.
Second quarter sales declined 9%.
The transfer of intercompany efforts associated with our -- some of our internal activities to enterprise shared services as well as some modest portfolio shaping accounted for $33 million of the decline.
Excluding the transfer and the portfolio shaping sales declined about 7% with lower volume across a broad number of programs.
IS operating income declined as a result of the lower sales a $27 million reduction in net favorable adjustments commercial contract revenue timing and mix results from the ramp-down of several in-theater fixed price contracts.
Rather than looking at second quarter's 8.3% operating margin rate Information Systems' year-to-date operating margin rate of 9.3% is more instructive as an indication of ongoing performance.
As we mentioned last quarter our guidance for IS had some modest downside risk to sales given the sequestration and general budget impacts.
So as a result of those trends our guidance now contemplates sales of approximately $6.6 billion for Information Systems and we now expect a low-to-mid 9% operating margin rate essentially consistent with the year-to-date margin rate.
Moving to Technical Systems.
Second quarter sales declined 8% with operating margin declining 7%.
Lower ICBM and KC-10 volume impacted sales by about $40 million and portfolio shaping impacted sales by an additional $20 million.
The operating trend is consistent with sales and operating margin rate is roughly comparable to last year.
For 2013 we continue to expect sales of approximately $2.7 billion with a mid-to-high 8% operating margin rate.
So on a consolidated basis second quarter segment operating margin rate improved 20 basis points to 12.7% primarily due to the $25 million increase in net favorable adjustments in the quarter.
That improvement largely came from Aerospace Systems and Electronic Systems and then partially offset by lower net favorable adjustments in Information Systems and a smaller amount in Technical Services.
Total operating income increased 4% due to the higher segment operating income and lower corporate and allocated expenses.
Second quarter interest expense increased $9 million reflecting the 1 month of interest on the $2.85 billion of new debt and a weighted average coupon of 3.3%.
At the end of June we used $850 million of those debt proceeds to retire the debt that was maturing in 2014 and '15.
These actions lowered our weighted average borrow cost by 11% from 5.3% to 4.7% while increasing the weighted average life of our debt portfolio by 40% from 4.8 to 13.6 years.
For modeling purposes the net impact of these actions will increase our 2013 interest expense on a year-over-year basis by about $45 million with most of that increase occurring in the second half of the year.
Turning to cash.
Before the $500 million discretionary pension contribution year-to-date operations generated approximately $740 million of cash generally consistent with prior year results at the midpoint of the year.
Free cash flow on the other hand before the discretionary pension contributions totaled $692 million for the quarter and year-to-date free cash flow is $653 million also consistent with last year.
At this point in time we are maintaining our 2013 cash flow guidance.
As many of you know our cash flows are traditionally weighted towards the second half of the year -- heavily weighted I might add with lots of variation around the timing of year-end cash receipts.
Given our lack of experience or knowledge regarding how the furloughing of government employees may impact the timing of payments in the second half of the year we are maintaining our current cash flow guidance.
As we gain more experience regarding whether or not the furloughs will have any impact on the timing of payments we'll consider whether we need to change our cash flow guidance for this year.
But in any case I expect this is only a matter of timing.
I also wanted to point out a couple of items that you'll see in our 10-Q.
Total backlog at June 30 reflects the gross new awards of $10.3 billion and a $1 billion reduction in Information Systems' total backlog primarily to reduce unfunded backlog for expired periods of performance on active contracts including TASC orders on ID/IQ contracts.
TASC orders are structured to provide the customer with significant contract flexibility.
As such even when TASC orders are awarded and they become part of our backlog there remains some degree of variability around execution of the entire TASC order amount.
We continually review our backlog of contracts to provide a reasonable depiction of the future work that they generate.
You also see in our 10-Q that we reached a tentative settlement with the IRS for tax audit years 2007 through 2009.
If approved by the joint committee on taxation the settlement would reduce our income tax expense by up to $50 million.
As the approval and the timing are uncertain the potential benefit of the settlement is not included in our 2013 guidance which at this point assumes an effective tax rate of approximately 33%.
And finally several of you have written reports regarding how the recent rise in interest rates could impact 2014 pension expense and funded status of our pension plans.
So I think it's important that I provide some data on the potential impacts for our plans if the 2014 assumptions -- pension assumptions were to be set at the end of the second quarter.
As all of you know that's not the case.
Actual assumptions will be set based on year-end interest rates and planned asset returns for the year.
But if I were to use the 10-year treasury yield as a proxy the discount rate would likely have increased by about 75 to 80 basis points from the end of last year.
So while higher interest rates could improve our funded status to around 90% or so from the 83% level that we had at the end of last year they also reduce returns on the fixed income and international portions of our investment portfolio.
As of June 30 planned asset investment returns were approximately 50 basis points.
Year-to-date returns largely reflect the impact of the higher interest rates on the fixed income and international portions of the investment portfolio partially offset by strong market returns on the domestic equities portion of the portfolio.
To remind everyone every 100-basis-point difference in asset investment returns from our assumed 8% investment return for our long-term rate of return assumption changes 2014 FAS expense by about $45 million.
And every 25-basis-point change in the discount rate from our assumed rate of 4.12% at the end of last year changes 2014 FAS expense by about $85 million.
So if I were to use the June 30 discount rate and asset returns as the basis for setting 2014 FAS expense at this point 2014 FAS expense would likely be comparable to this year's FAS expense of about $380 million or about $65 million higher than we anticipated at the beginning of 2013.
I should also point out that with those same assumptions based on the June 30 numbers our required cash contributions would remain under $100 million for 2014.
Lastly I think again I should remind you that pension assumptions including those related to CAS are set at the end of the year based on actual year-end interest rates and asset returns.
And I know as a number of you know if we look back into the past a lot can change between now and then.
But I did want to provide you with some sensitivities for modeling purposes.
So Steve with that I think we're ready for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Carla we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in electronics where you again had a very impressive margin.
And it just feels like after that 6 quarters in a row that upward adjustments because of good contract performance it's just -- it's become almost routine.
And when you look forward and certainly with your guidance you're looking at lower margins for the rest of the year.
But where are you in electronics and do how you think about performance improvement cost reduction? I guess I'm wondering what inning are we in in terms of being able to continue to improve the performance of these programs and deliver the kinds of margins that we've seen over the last several quarters? Doug I don't know that I would say we're in an inning.
We're on a treadmill and you got to continually run as fast as the treadmill is going.
So we are really focused on that.
We have had frankly the benefit from a much -- from a number of cost reduction actions we've taken on our backlog with as well a number of programs nearing completion given the -- somewhat as a draw-down.
So really good hard work by the Electronic Systems folks.
A lot of focus on being prudent about new contracts that we entered into all of which are being realized at this point in time.
At times I get asked about our benchmarks for the businesses.
I do think that this is a 13- 14-plus type of business on a long-term basis but we are realizing some benefits from hard actions that we've taken over the last couple of years.
Yes Doug this is Wes.
I just -- I can't resist the opportunity just to say how much hard work is actually going on in Electronic Systems.
There's a team that is just completely focused on performance and in all dimensions.
And if you turn the clock back a number of years you'll recall that we went through some pretty challenging times in Electronic Systems with in particular some international contracts that just simply did not perform very well.
And to their credit that team has top to bottom learned that set of lessons really dug in on contract performance really dug in on cost management.
And they're just doing an outstanding job.
As Jim points out clearly we're getting the benefit of cost reductions which flow into existing contracts.
As we enter into new contracts that certainly is an effect we won't see forever.
But given your question I just can't help but reflect on the journey that we've been on Electronic Systems and really complement the team for their extraordinary work.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And just related we're also seeing you deliver some really good aerospace margins.
Are those more linked to specific programs such as F-35 maturing? What's driving that? I would say Doug it's across the broad portfolio of products in aerospace.
Yes I don't think F-35 is quite yet at a point of maturity where I would say that was a big driver for us.
But if you look across the portfolio in aerospace to Jim's point particularly our manned programs more legacy manned programs and also our space program have been doing very very well.
Unmanned is still earlier in the evolution of things moving into production so they're probably not quite as far up that curve.
But again really good performance really good focus on cost management.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Jim I wanted to ask you just a couple of quick questions on cash.
You mentioned that there's some conservatism in your outlook here for 2013 in light of the furloughs.
Can you give us a little bit of flavor of how much conservatism you've baked into that? What kind of cushion are you affording yourself? And then Wes you made a comment about the impacts of sequester around in 2014 with regard to revenues profitability and cash flows suggesting that they would be under some pressure.
But I did want to just dive a little bit further into some of the moving things on cash such as the discretionary contribution that you may or may not make next year and then cash recovery rates going up.
I just want to make sure that your comments were excluding other dynamics that are going on with cash flows and that we won't necessarily see negative pressure overall on cash flows as we move into 2014.
I don't think we'll see negative pressures Jason on cash flows as we move into 2014.
And I did not say conservative guidance.
Those were your words.
Research Division</strong> Those are my words.
I was trying to emphasize that we always have substantial variation around cash receipts at the end of the year in particular frankly as the industry manage its cash flows.
And those last day cash receipts can easily vary by $200 million $300 million just based on what's happening in the overall industry.
So on one hand yes there can be some variation around receipts particularly in the last couple of days of the year.
I don't know how to call what may or may not happen with the furloughing of government employees and whether it has any impact at all on cash receipts.
So it just seemed premature at this point to bet on potentially higher cash receipts this year.
As I said in our prepared comments I do think this is only a matter of timing maybe only a matter of timing of days.
But I think there could be some rises [ph] of variability of cash receipts and it could be greater this year simply because of the environment that we're in.
Yes Jason it's Wes.
I just -- I would add.
I think what we're all worried about in different ways is what the real impact will be of this furloughing of the civilian workforce.
It was just the other day that Secretary Hagel had to basically say "Look if this keeps going we may be furloughing in the next fiscal year as well." And if anybody thinks that that has no impact they are not thinking about it with a clear head.
It's -- the civilian workforce is an integral component of how our defense and national security infrastructure operates.
And it's not just paying the bills.
It's manning centers running intelligent centers it's -- you name it.
Our civilian workforce is extensively deployed throughout the national security framework.
So I do think that there is some concern about what that means as we continue to experience this.
These are really important people doing really important jobs and trying to predict exactly what the impact of these furloughs will be.
It's a very difficult thing.
So I think what you should take away from it is sort of an expression of a risk factor if you will that's out there in some respect.
But as Jim said ultimately it's a matter of timing.
It's not a matter of do we get paid or not it's a matter of timing.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Wes and Jim you're not afraid to do something that's unconventional.
And so sort of 2 questions.
One is why with what you've defined as sort of an uncertain environment how you provided an element of certainty with respect to your share repurchase program? Yes Howard let me say a few words about that.
I'm sure Jim would be happy to join in as well.
We've tried to be as clear as we can over these last few years about the way that we see the value creation opportunity in our company.
And clearly it all rests on performance and improving how we've been doing over the years in executing on our contracts and delivering on our commitments to our customers.
Everything starts there.
And I'm really proud of how our team has been working so hard over these last number of years to demonstrably improve our performance.
We're not perfect we still have a lot of work to do and we're pressing in every corner of the enterprise to go after that in terms of program execution and cost management you name it.
It's across the board.
But the other thing that we've been I think pretty clear about is the importance of the way in which we pull our capital in creating value.
And obviously it takes a number of forms whether we're making long-term investments in our pension plan which ultimately do add value over the long term; whether it's increasing our dividend and as I said in my prepared remarks we've taken a very long and steady approach to year-after-year consecutive dividend increases; or whether it's been about share repurchase.
And the interesting thing about share repurchases obviously we do that when a market condition is permitting in the market from quarter-to-quarter.
And we often get the question of "Gee is this just something that you guys are doing right now? Or do you see this a continuing part of your strategy?" So as we thought about that question and we took a hard look at our forecast on a go-forward basis and as you might imagine we looked at it in a variety of scenarios in terms of what might happen in the budget arena and programmatic decisions.
But as we looked across that range of scenarios we developed a great degree of I wouldn't say comfort you can never be comfortable in running a business but yes I would say we developed a great degree of confidence that the cash flows in our business supported taking the action that we took which was to be clear about where we see ourselves going so that there wasn't this sort of constant question about what are we going to be doing.
We indicated what our goal is and we laid that out there.
And we're off executing on it.
So we found it just to be an important part of our continuing dialogue with our shareholders about the way we think about creating value and that really is the essence of our thinking.
Jim? Obviously Wes I would echo exactly what you said.
The only thing I would add -- remember folks that we announced our share repurchase and then about a week later we also announced that we would go on to the capital markets for our debt transaction.
Having made those decisions we thought it was important that we communicate both pieces of the decision.
So all of the information was out there for the market in its entirety.
So clearly focused on driving shareholder value see a significant opportunity there but also try to be very transparent with all of the market on what our intentions were.
Research Division</strong> I -- no I understand that.
And it makes -- it's just you have been so conservative to be -- to step out like this clearly underscores your confidence or your I guess your confidence in the outlook.
And then related to that I'm sure this wasn't lost on U.S.
is that Cisco yesterday bought Sourcefire for something like 7x revenues.
And there's a whole host of your cyber business and other things that clearly operate in some of those same markets.
How do you react to something like that? Clearly we watched very carefully what's going on in that whole market space because as you point out Howard we have some extraordinary capabilities in addressing elements of that market.
One difference obviously is we continue to focus on the very high end of the cyber arena to help our nation address the big challenges that we're facing in that regard.
We've not put a huge energy into sort of the commercial side of that.
And so there is some difference in sort of market perspective and how different companies look at those things.
But I would tell you that just if I were standing in Cisco's shoes I can understand what they're doing.
This was an important area.
I think it just continues to grow in challenge and complexity.
And as we've talked about a little bit on our calls in the past there's several different aspects of the flavors of cyber if you will from -- ranging from the sort of the purer traditional perspectives on cyber to increasingly the view on what actually needs to get embedded in the hardware if you will the capabilities.
And from our perspective that might be platforms or sensors but it might also be networking equipment and other things.
So I think it's just a representative example of how this issue is becoming more and more pervasive...
Growing importance.
It is.
It's an absolutely critically important perspective on its growing importance.
And I think we're going to continue to see it become a part of just about every aspect of the technology landscape that we all rely upon to make our world work the way it works today.
So from my perspective this was just another indication of the importance of this arena.
Our next question comes from the line of Joseph Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Wes or Jim my comment -- or my question is on backlog.
So backlog is down.
I'm focused on funded and I understand the issue in IS in the unfunded area.
But just focusing on funded you're down about 10% year-to-date and sort of in equal amounts in Q1 and Q2.
Some other companies' backlog has tended to be a little bit more seasonal than yours.
Yours doesn't seem to be as much so.
But obviously market conditions are tough.
So wondering if you could comment on where specifically you think you might end up the year on funded backlog.
And then maybe Wes if you could just go through each of the businesses quickly particularly AS and ES and comment on what the major moving parts might be.
No I would just -- I think I addressed this a little bit on our last quarterly call kind of trying to call it for the end of the year on backlog.
I wouldn't do it at this point.
There are so many variables out there that are shaping not only the decision space but what I would call the behavior space of our customer community.
Many of our customers are just very very concerned about decisions they make this year having to flow through into the next few years and they're kind of holding back waiting to see what may or may not happen.
And I understand that behavior.
I understand that difficulty in making decisions when in fact they're getting asked to turn out a whole new idea on budget every few weeks.
They're getting put through an enormous number of what-if cycles.
I actually admire how they're handling this in light of all of the challenges that they're facing.
So where this all comes out and how that will translate into specific contracting behaviors over the course of this year it's really hard to tell.
So I wouldn't want to get in front of our headlights on that and try and call it.
But what I would say is that it has put an emphasis within our company on working with our customers to really help understand where things need to get put on contract to actually reduce cost because as we all know the longer things take oftentimes that means there is additional cost induced by that delay in getting things on contract.
So it's an intense source of effort across our enterprise to work with our customers to try and balance out the challenge that they are dealing with as well as what it takes to maintain the cost of the systems and to make sure that things are operating as efficiently as they can in this environment which is inherently inefficient.
So I won't call it at this point on what the outlook will be for the end of the year just given the number of variables in front of us.
But I would emphasize the degree at which it has the attention of the enterprise and working it.
You asked for AS and ES.
The vast majority of our revenues certainly this year like most other years come from contracts already awarded.
So it's not so much a big swinger on what our financial outcomes are this year.
And to the extent that we're aware of any we've already included that in the guidance -- the updated guidance that we provided today.
As we look across the landscape there are a number of activities sort of new contract award activities that are out there that will certainly impact the total -- or could impact the total awards number for the year.
The challenge we continue to see in the awards environment as you know is you get an award and it gets protested until you kind of hold back on that.
But when I look at both AS and ES they continue to have large opportunities competitive opportunities in addition to the ongoing award cycles in front of them.
And it's both domestic and international that -- where we see those opportunities.
One of the things that we pointed out I think on our first call this year was our outlook for 2013 as an increasing international content in our business.
International always takes longer than you hope it might but we do see it on a positive trajectory in the enterprise.
So I hope that helps to some extent.
I know I didn't answer your question quantitatively but I don't feel we're in a position to do that right now.
Research Division</strong> I do understand that.
Maybe just if you could give -- if you characterize one part of this which is the uncertainty that you have and the reason you don't want to answer the question yet.
Is it more the competitive items that are out there? Or is it the timing of the follow-on items whether they flip out of the year or not? It's both.
Even the follow-on things are being slowed down just because the system is operating more slowly.
So it is both aspects of that.
And on the follow-on things obviously in general it's usually not a matter of whether it's going to happen.
It's usually a matter of when.
But as the customers are going through their internal debates on priorities it is challenging for them to go on and get out there with those decisions.
Our next question comes from the line of William Loomis with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Looking at Information Systems so looking at the backlog write-down just tell me if I'm looking at this right if I had it back to second quarter backlog it says that you had roughly a one-to-one book-to-bill in Information Systems in the second quarter.
Am I looking at that right? Will I don't recall the numbers but I think it was around 90%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean that's still a very good number given awards...
A lot of gross awards yes.
Gross awards yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That's a good number considering that award activity has been relatively light.
What does that say -- what prompted you to write down the backlog and then you obviously had good awards in the second quarter? We try to on an ongoing basis look at our backlog.
And as you might imagine the most variability is in the shorter-cycle business particularly in those areas that have ID/IQ contracts which by their very nature provide some level of flexibility or variability on the actual amount of revenue that you recognize from each of those individual TASC orders.
Just to reiterate ID/IQ means indefinite delivery indefinite order.
So there's variability associated with it.
So yes in this environment we try to look at any kind of activity that may have potential for an adjustment and we make those as soon as we know about them.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And to be clear you are putting feeling in that figure before? You were just looking at awarded TASC orders and that's what you wrote down? Correct.
Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any -- and you had good awards in the second quarter there.
What do you see in the second half? I mean typically we see in the September quarter on the short cycle side pretty robust period.
Is there anything that you've seen to date that you think differently about that? I think we all have been speculating about what might happen here at the last quarter of the government fiscal year but it would be simply that speculation.
And so I think I'll just leave it as we have that issue every year.
Will it be different this year? It's really hard to say whether or not it will be any different.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately just -- if you can just review on Global Hawk specifically just the different variants where we stand now not in terms of where Congress is but where you are in terms of production and revenue and kind of visibility based on what's funded in hand now.
So on Global Hawk the kind of remaining issue out there is the Lot 11 [ph] the Block 30 and we're in active discussions with the Air Force on that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But you're still completing prior orders? Yes.
Yes absolutely.
Yes.
Yes not finished.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that will continue -- you have visibility on that through '14 completing those orders? There's a staging of what those orders look like some this year some over next year but there's really been no change in that.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the one pattern I think we're seeing in the industry is that short-cycle businesses the revenues are under more pressure generally.
Margins are under more pressure and the weapon systems seem to be basically knocking it out of the park.
As those longer-cycle businesses come under more pressure should we expect greater pressure on your margins? So to the question of the margins just continue to get better and better beyond everyone's expectations what's it going to take to continue that? If we do see sequester impact on the top line will that start to throttle those margins back? Is that the key variable? Cai as I think about this the nature of our business is both some longer-cycle and shorter-cycle businesses.
In the longer-cycle businesses as Wes alluded to earlier we have the ability to work off of our backlog.
And to the extent that we don't have any unexpected surprises so program cancellations or terminations the nature of the contracting process normally provides you with some visibility on where the customer intends to go in the future.
My point simply is in those types of businesses you have a longer period of time to react to what may occur.
We also made a comment -- had made a comment for a number of quarters now that we've been conscious about trying to take cost reduction actions in advance of where we thought the market our customer was going.
And so we've realized that benefit on our existing contract backlog.
As we negotiate new contracts they will be negotiated based on our current cost structure and it will be harder to maintain the margins that we are realizing today out of the existing backlog.
That's the natural ebb and flow of the business.
Cai I would also offer one other perspective.
It's perhaps a little bit tangential but I think it's important in a broader view.
The nation took a procurement holiday for strategic systems in the 1990s.
Over the last decade we've been largely focused on dealing with the issues surrounding terrorism around the globe and have really not still been able to recapitalize our platform infrastructure in any meaningful way.
We have an aging platform capability as a country.
And we are going to have to replace that.
Things just don't last forever.
And so if there is any forcing function to continue a support for I think kind of the class of weapons capabilities that you were mentioning I think that's actually an important strategic one.
Now what will the sequester do to that? And what decisions might the department be forced to make? Hard to tell.
But that is a real force that's out there right there today.
And I think it needs to be understood as a driving factor in the decision space here.
LLC Research Division</strong> But essentially what you're referring to is whether or not we're going to have more production programs as the mix more production programs than development programs? Exactly right.
Exactly right.
[indiscernible] point in time.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Wes I wanted to ask not really ask but just get your perspective on this EAC question and margin issue a different way and sort of apply it to capital deployment.
I wonder what the observation of the improvements you've seen in performance over the last couple of years now tells you about what the performance must have been 3 to 5 years ago which is sort of the last time these stocks were at these levels.
And when you think about in the intrinsic value of these companies Wes we get several of both your stock the stocks of your peers at levels that are now once again on all-time highs.
How do you think about the intrinsic value of the firm and that of your peers now that you've improved the performance? I mean obviously the profit policy hasn't changed.
The budget's lower.
So does it sort of make the case that intrinsically the companies were much poorer at their old prior highs and now they're much better and it still makes a lot of sense to buy back stock here? I'm just interested in your perspective.
You have to look at it I think from a number of different angles.
Clearly the marketplace makes some decisions around EBITDA multiples.
And if you kind of look at that historically I think that's illuminating.
And I know a number of folks on the call that looked at EBITDA versus EBITDAP as better predictors over time.
But if you look at that historically you'd say "Well we're probably actually in a reasonable place with the value opportunity that's still in front of us." So when we think about share repurchases and I've said this a number of times on our calls.
We think about it over the long term the long-term value of the enterprise how we see ourselves generating cash how we see ourselves with the ability to deploy that cash both internally to create longer-term value and directly to the benefit of our shareholders.
And all of those things go into our thinking around the core economics of doing share repurchase.
Obviously we've concluded it makes sense.
We've been pretty vocal about that.
And it actually stated a goal for where we would drive our share repurchase activities here through the -- over the next couple of years.
So everybody takes a little bit of a different view on this but I think you can be informed by looking at it from a couple of different angles.
But fundamentally it comes back to how you see the long-term performance and portfolio of the enterprise and how that aligns with the nation's needs and the needs of our allies.
And that's really the core of our thinking.
Research Division</strong> And do you think it's correct to say that it implies that the understanding of what performance was possible 5 years ago let's say is very different today than what it was then? I'd hate to try and Monday morning quarterback what happened a number of years ago in the marketplace.
I know there were a lot of different factors in play then but all I can do is sort of snapshot my view of where we are and what I think our future looks like.
And that's really the framework for decision-making.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can we focus a bit on the specific of the F-35? And obviously you moved into LRIP 5 here.
It's adding nicely too on the top line.
It presumably is not dilutive to the margin either.
So I was hoping you could comment.
5 6 and 7 I think are roughly the same quantities.
It would imply that you're not going to have much of a revenue growth rate but I'm curious of the margin potential over the next several LRIPs.
Is there a lot of margin potential number one? And the second piece of it is how much of those contracts are fully definitized at this point? So Myles let me say a few words and then -- and Jim certainly can add in.
And you're right the LRIPs are pretty flat in terms of the number of units being built.
So I think over the next near-term period of time we're going to see F-35 continue to kind of be where it is.
And we're still in LRIP land obviously.
We're not into whole rate production and the multi-year productions.
And so inherently the margin rates during development and even LRIP are not what the potential margin rates could be later on as we move forward into the program.
I hope we're going to be able to start up that curve in a more meaningful way but we do have to get all the things done that are necessary at this stage of the program to be able to achieve that.
I think we're making really good progress on this program.
And I would give credit to Lockheed Martin.
I think they're doing a great job as the prime on this.
I think we have a really good team with Lockheed and Northrop and BAE Systems and Pratt &amp; Whitney all together on this.
We are working together on it in a very I would say highly aligned team-oriented way with our customer community.
So I am of a mind that this program is making really good progress and I'm proud to be on this team.
I think it's got some really good future in front of it.
Now how does it get interfered with potentially by all of this budget challenge that's in front of us? I don't know.
That's a hard one to call.
But the job we have in the industry is to continue to drive to make it more affordable and to demonstrate the extraordinary capabilities of this aircraft and that alignment with what not only the U.S.
needs but all of our partner nations need.
And I see an increasing alignment around that on this program.
So number one really important but as you point out these LRIPs are sort of going to hold us flat for a while until we can get up a more substantial production curve.
And over time I would hope to see the margins come with that.
Just to add Myles based on the planned quantities that we see ahead of us for all the LRIPs we really don't see F-35 revenues ramping until about 2016.
And as Wes just said the team's -- the entire team's focus is really on driving affordability how do we get unit cost down.
We all recognize that that is going to be an important factor in being able to realize the quantities that are ahead of us.
So a lot of focus on how to drive affordability reduce cost improve performance deliver on time.
Research Division</strong> And the margin potentially across the 3 LRIPs is it roughly the same? Or is there pressure to the downside as you move out at flat quantities and customer wanting lower prices? I wouldn't -- I don't know that it's worthwhile commenting on margins by individual programs at this point in time.
We're really working hard to drive...
Yes this is really about -- this is about affordability.
Our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to the share repurchase conversation a little bit more just on the mechanics of that in the near and medium term.
So when you announced it you had said you could issue debt to buy back stock at a faster rate.
You've then added some debt not long after that.
Was that what you're referring to? Or could we see more balance sheet capitalization changes? And then given you did that should we look for a faster pace of buyback in the back half of the year? Should we specifically be looking for ASRs? Anything you can give to help us there would be great.
We make all of those decisions essentially every quarter.
And looking at the pace of our share repurchase program we did as you pointed out go to the capital markets and raised some additional debt and net of $2 billion to increase our overall financial flexibility.
We could use some of that cash for accelerating share repurchases but essentially our message was around the -- our goal to reduce our share count by about 60 million shares or 25% by the end of 2015.
Make it real simple.
That's 11 quarters kind of like 5.5 million shares per quarter on a pro rata basis.
And we can do that on a pro rata basis.
We can do it on an accelerated basis.
We have the flexibility the financial resources to think about what makes the most sense and each time that we address a new program.
Could we do ASRs? Yes it's a possibility.
It's something that we look at on a regular basis to see whether or not we make -- whether it makes sense.
No commitment to any kind of formal transaction at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> And is it pro rata that's in the updated 2013 earnings guidance? The guidance for 2013 was based on weighted average share reduction of 7%.
We still expect to get a 7% reduction.
On a weighted average basis it's going to be really hard given that we're halfway through the year to having meaningful change in that average for the year.
So I still feel really good about the overall 7% reduction for the year.
Our guidance anticipates that.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to IS a follow-on to Bill's question earlier and the discussion about short cycle.
Wes in the past you've characterized your IS business as being a little less commoditized perhaps than others but it seems like the pressure is still pretty strong there.
And particularly on the margins Jim you did mention fewer EACs and a couple of other things but is this a trend that continues? I know you've said the margins reverse a bit here in the second half but we really -- we haven't bottomed here in the short-cycle pressure.
So how should we think about this going forward and into next year? So Rob let me make a little bit of a distinction because I think sometimes this gets lost in the communication.
When we talk about commoditized we talk about the way the market operates.
So if there are many players and it is essentially a race to the $0.05 or to the $0.01 contract-by-contract that's commoditized.
That means that you're really having difficulty competing on the basis of technical differentiation or knowledge or intellectual property.
That's the framework we mean with commoditized.
Short cycle some commoditized businesses most commoditized businesses probably are short cycle but those 2 are not fully overlapping circles in the Venn diagram.
When we think about short-cycle businesses we mean those business which inherently have shorter-term contracts.
Those may or may not be commoditized.
In fact many of our short-cycle businesses are businesses that take extraordinary engineering skills to perform rely on our ability to provide intellectual property and an experience base that simply is not commoditized.
But yet they are still short cycle by nature of the way that customer buys.
So I just would want to make sure that those 2 don't get confused in the dialogue.
And we have in fact moved away and have been doing this now for a number of years from those businesses that we see as more commoditized because we don't see that that's necessarily a place where it makes sense for us to invest a lot of our time and energy and resources.
We have focused in IS and more across the board in those areas where the differentiation occurs on the basis of the intellectual capital that can be brought to whatever the particular competition might be which inherently shrinks the field of competitors.
And in fact if you look at that smaller field that we tend to go after more on the system side of this I think you'll see in the marketplace that has all of these earnings releases have been coming out they were all kind of having the same experience that because a lot of that type of capability is purchased on these ID/IQ contracts the customer has a lot of flexibility to throttle up or throttle down.
And given the budget uncertainties we're seeing more throttle down than throttle up in that space right now.
So from a strategic perspective we're on the track that we've talked about.
We continue to focus our portfolio in the areas where we see our ability to be differentiated as creating longer-term value.
But we're going through a budget environment that is for these shorter-cycle components of that causing this type of variation.
Research Division</strong> So Wes are you saying that what we're seeing here in IS is not pricing-related? Because it's not -- this is about demand in volume and periods of softness.
Yes I would characterize it as a market condition not so much a competitiveness perspective because the work that we've been doing in IS I'm convinced has us in a very competitive position.
So it's more about what we're seeing in the market.
Rob a couple of other perspectives on this.
In my prepared comments I talked about a $27 million adjustment or reduction in favorable adjustments.
I also mentioned commercial contract revenue timing a smaller impact as well as the ramp-down of in-theater programs.
Frankly a big part of that $27 million reduction in favorable adjustments is a result of some adjustments in last year's second quarter resulting from immediate needs on production-type products in-theater.
Right.
There was...
I don't anticipate that those would always be there.
Margins of almost 11% last year in IS in the second quarter well above what we consider to be the benchmark for this type of business.
Performance on a year-to-date basis in IS basically in line with again what we see as the benchmark for this business.
So frankly I think you're seeing an anomaly more in last year's favorable performance than an unfavorable performance in this year.
Research Division</strong> But even so you're talking about a lower margin in the second half than you addressed in the first half.
No.
We're basically saying consistent with the 6 months margin in the second half of the year with the first half.
Which is consistent with the benchmark that we see for the business.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And by the way Jim on that do you see EACs -- are they -- could they continue to trend down as this is a business where just maybe the maturity of the contract base suggests that's going to be a lower portion of your profit going forward? Frankly if we're again still talking about IS the IS being a short-cycle business the amount of the adjustments that they traditionally have is relatively small.
Research Division</strong> So this really is an anomaly? Or last quarter was an anomaly? Last year's second quarter was much more.
I think so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just while we're on the topic the other businesses which are more long cycle and have more EACs Wes or Jim are we at a point -- given that the new starts are fewer and farther between and programs are closing out just how do you see those trending EACs? Our objective is to win every new start we can that makes sense that's going to be profitable.
So if we're successful in that regard that inherently will hold the margin rates down a little bit.
So just in terms of our desires for our business we like winning.
Well this concludes the Q&amp;A session.
We ran over a little bit because we couldn't quite get to everybody.
So I apologize to those that are still in the queue.
I will be at my office to answer additional questions.
At this point in time I would like to turn the call over to Wes for final comments.
I'll just say thank you again everyone for your continuing interest in our company.
I'd also like to say thank you to the team here at Northrop Grumman for continuing to work so hard on performance and delivering value to our shareholders.
I'd also like to say thank you to our customer community.
They are dealing with an extraordinarily difficult set of challenges.
I really admire and respect how they are dealing with it.
It is not a situation that any of us should be putting them in as they work so hard to defend our nation.
So we ought to all keep that in mind as we go forward and hopefully find some resolution to these challenges.
Thank you everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
My name is Frances and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Frances and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Before we start please understand the matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of federal security laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Jim Palmer our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Once again our results were strong and reflect the hard work and dedication of the entire Northrop Grumman team.
I want to start our call today by acknowledging our employees' unwavering dedication in maintaining top performance in support of our critical global security missions especially in challenging times.
As a company we're always mindful that our products and services are of critical importance to our nation and to our allies.
Today's budget issues are creating real challenges for both our industry and our government customers compounding our nation's difficulty in addressing the modern global threat environment.
I am very proud of the hard work by our employees and by our government partners who remain focused and committed to the mission we serve.
As we've said in prior quarters our strategy is focused on performance effective cash deployment and a portfolio aligned with our customers' priority investment areas.
All 3 elements continue to be major value drivers for our shareholders customers and employees.
We are focused on delivering affordable and innovative products and services for our customers and solid financial returns for our shareholders.
While declining defense budgets continue to pressure our top line and backlog the substantial reductions we've made to our cost structure including headcount reductions facility consolidations and numerous other affordability actions continue to support strong earnings and cash flow performance.
And you can see this in our third quarter results.
Despite a 3% sales decline third quarter EPS grew 18%.
Performance and effective cash deployment were primary drivers of the improvement.
Third quarter results include a 90 basis point improvement in our segment operating margin rate the result of strong operating income and margin rates at all 4 of our businesses.
As expected our shorter-cycle businesses Information Systems and Technical Services continue to experience more substantial top line declines as a result of the budget environment.
Despite lower sales both sectors continue to deliver solid operating income and strong operating margin rates.
Our cash performance is also strong and we continue to return cash to shareholders.
During the quarter cash from operations totaled $950 million and free cash flow totaled $860 million.
Year-to-date before discretionary pension contributions we have generated $1.6 billion in cash from operations and free cash flow of $1.5 billion.
During the quarter we used $753 million to repurchase 8.1 million shares of our stock.
And year-to-date we've repurchased 20.6 million shares for $1.7 billion.
Including more than $400 million in dividends paid year-to-date we've returned more than $2 billion in cash to shareholders this year substantially more than our year-to-date free cash flow.
In addition to deploying cash through share repurchases and dividends we are increasing capital investments to ensure long-term competitiveness affordability and innovation.
Third quarter capital expenditures increased principally due to investments for the construction of our 2 new manned military aircraft centers of excellence in Florida.
Capital spending will also increase in the fourth quarter and into 2014 as our investment in these centers of excellence ramps up.
We ended the quarter with a total backlog of $37.5 billion which reflects new awards of $5.9 billion a 97% book-to-bill ratio.
Through the end of the third quarter we captured $16.2 billion in new awards for a book-to-bill of 88%.
These include significant awards for the F-35 Advanced EHF satellites the B-2 the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye and Global Hawk.
And during the quarter our SABR radar won the competition to upgrade U.S.
and Taiwanese F-16 with the next-generation AESA radar.
This program is a key strategic win for us and will provide F-16s unprecedented operational capability and greater reliability.
Based on our year-to-date results we are increasing guidance for 2013 sales earnings per share and cash flow.
We now expect sales of approximately $24.4 billion and we expect EPS to range between $8 and $8.15.
Cash from operations is now expected to range between $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion with free cash flow of $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion.
Guidance for both those metrics those cash metrics is before discretionary pension contributions.
As we said last quarter we will provide 2014 guidance on our year-end conference call.
But we wanted to give you some idea of how we are thinking about 2014.
As you are aware after beginning fiscal year 2014 with a partial government shutdown we now have a continuing resolution through January 15.
And the debt ceiling has been raised through February 7.
We don't know whether we will have a formal 2014 budget or like last year it's possible that we may be in an operating condition under a continuing resolution for some extended period of time.
In addition another round of sequestration is scheduled to be triggered in January.
These next couple of months are an important time for our Congress to address the budget uncertainties that have been created by the sequester and the breakdown of the appropriations process.
As the senior leadership of the DoD has said many times the current environment is not supportive of planning and managing the institutions in our government that ensure our national security.
The inability of Congress to agree on a budget poses real problems for the long term.
And the sequester is clearly impacting national security already.
But it's also having impacts on other elements of our society such as reducing the research and development that underpins our future economy and negatively impacting education at all levels in our country.
We need to return to a functional appropriations process in managing our country's affairs.
And ending the sequester should be a first step in that direction.
As we look ahead considering the budget environment we would expect lower sales in 2014.
We expect our businesses to continue to perform well and generate strong margin rates.
We also expect strong cash flows to continue.
Our goal is to convert 100% of earnings into free cash flow.
This is before any discretionary pension contributions.
And we've been successful at achieving that over the last few years.
The degree of top line decline will largely depend on budgeting decisions.
As we saw this year our shorter-cycle businesses have been more impacted by the budget turmoil.
We would expect this to be the case next year as well.
Conversely we would expect our longer-cycle businesses to be less impacted.
Obviously today's budget environment creates uncertainty.
But by focusing on the things we can control performance and capital deployment we expect to deliver solid 2014 results.
This outlook assumes that our operations do not experience any significant disruptions as a result of major program cancellations or restructurings.
While the budget environment continues to be dynamic we are positioning Northrop Grumman for the long term.
That means continuing to invest in a portfolio that is aligned with the enduring priority areas of investment for global security unmanned C4ISR cyber and logistics and modernization along with manned military aircraft.
It also means achieving and sustaining a high level of financial and program performance and effectively deploying our substantial cash resources to create value.
So with that now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of our results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My comments will focus on third quarter and year-to-date results and our updated 2013 guidance.
As Wes said just another solid quarter.
Our team has proactively responded to the challenging budget environment to ensure that we continue to execute very well.
I want to add my sincere appreciation for our team and the dedication and focus particularly during the last several weeks.
Major drivers as Wes said for the quarter were performance and share repurchases.
We also benefited from a lower tax rate this quarter due to the benefits associated with our 2012 federal tax return and the R&amp;D tax credit extension.
And we had an improvement in our net FAS/CAS pension adjustment that reflects an update for actual demographic experience as of the beginning of the year.
The tax benefit added $0.07 and the pension benefit added $0.09 to third quarter -- or $0.08 rather to third quarter earnings per share.
So before the tax and pension benefits EPS would have been $1.99 or about 9% higher than last year's third quarter.
Higher corporate unallocated expenses as well as interest expense along with lower other income were partial offsets to the tax and pension benefits.
Turning to the sectors.
Aerospace Systems had sales decline of 4% primarily due to lower volume on the F-35 and Global Hawk programs.
Excluding Global Hawk our unmanned systems portfolio continues to experience revenue growth.
While the Global Hawk program is mature we continue to ramp up on other unmanned programs including NATO AGS and Triton to name just a couple.
Space revenue also increased due to higher volume for AEHF and the James Webb Space Telescope programs.
Those increases were partially offset by lower volume for our restricted space programs.
AS operating income increased 15% and operating margin rate was substantially higher at 13.3%.
During the quarter AS had a $44 million increase and net favorable adjustments primarily for space and manned military aircraft programs which more than offset the impact of lower sales.
Based on year-to-date results we continue to expect AS sales of about $9.9 billion in 2013 with a margin rate of approximately 12%.
For Electronic Systems we saw sales rise 4% in the quarter.
Higher sales for the quarter included growth in international and combat avionics programs partially offset by declines in navigation and maritime systems programs.
Operating income declined 2% and operating margin rate declined to 15.4%.
Operating income reflects a lower level of net favorable adjustments than in the prior year period which more than offset the higher sales.
Based on year-to-date performance we continue to expect ES 2013 sales to increase to at least $7.1 billion with an operating margin rate in the high 16% range.
Revenue guidance includes continued growth in international and space volume and margin rate guidance anticipates performance generally consistent with our year-to-date results.
Moving to Information Systems.
Third quarter sales declined 9%.
Transfer of intercompany efforts to our enterprise shared services organization and portfolio-shaping activities accounted for $17 million of the decline.
So excluding those transfer and portfolio-shaping activities sales declined if you want to call it organically about 8% due to lower volume across a broad number of programs.
IS continues to be impacted by lower funding levels contract inflations and in-theater force reductions.
I think as many of you know of all of our 4 businesses IS has been the most impacted by sequestration.
Although operating income declined slightly for the quarter margin rate expanded by 40 basis points due to improved performance.
We continue to expect IS sales of about $6.6 billion for the year and a mid 9% margin rate consistent with year-to-date results.
Finally on Technical Services.
Third quarter sales declined by 5% with lower volume in integrated logistics and modernization programs along with some lower volume in the ICBM program as the principal drivers of the revenue decline.
Operating income although increased 8% and operating margin rate improved 110 basis points to 9.4% reflecting improved performance across several programs and a higher level of net favorable adjustments than in the prior period.
For 2013 we expect Technical Services sales of $2.8 billion versus our prior estimate of $2.7 billion.
And we are increasing our expected operating margin rate to approximately 9% from a mid- to high 8% range previously.
So on a consolidated basis third quarter segment operating margin rate improved 90 basis points to 12.5% which includes or reflects a $22 million increase in net favorable adjustments in the quarter.
That improvement largely came from Aerospace Systems to some extent from Technical Services which was partially offset by lower net favorable adjustments in Electronic Systems.
So based on year-to-date results we now see a 2013 segment margin rate in the low to mid-12% range.
Third quarter total operating income increased 7% due to the 5% increase in segment operating income and a $27 million improvement in our net FAS/CAS pension adjustment.
That improvement the net FAS/CAS improvement represents 9 months of increase in our CAS recoveries based on updated demographic experience as of the beginning of the year.
Prior CAS estimates were based on estimated demographic data.
For the year we now expect the net FAS/CAS pension adjustment will be about $160 million.
And then third quarter interest expense increased $17 million basically due to the additional $2 billion of debt we raised in the second quarter.
Based on the updated segment operating margin and pension estimates we now see 2013 total operating margin rate in the low to mid-12% range.
Turning to taxes.
Third quarter tax rate declined 31% from 34% last year with the lower rate including an additional $16 million benefit associated with our 2012 federal tax return as well as $6 million of R&amp;D benefit in the quarter resulting from the restoration of the R&amp;D credit under the American Taxpayer Relief Act.
So for the year we now see a 32% tax rate for the year.
Cash before discretionary pension contributions.
On a year-to-date basis cash from operations totaled $1.6 billion.
Free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions was $1.5 billion reflecting a year-to-date free cash flow conversion of 100%.
So based on those year-to-date results we are increasing guidance for cash from operations to $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion and for free cash flow to $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion.
I would also note that our updated EPS guidance assumes that share repurchases will reduce our weighted average shares outstanding for the year to approximately 234 million shares or a decrease of about 8% from last year's weighted average shares outstanding.
And that's versus our prior guidance of 7%.
On a year-to-date basis we repurchased 20.6 million shares.
As you know in May we announced a goal of retiring 25% of our common stock or 60 million shares by the end of 2015 market conditions permitting.
During the second and third quarters we repurchased slightly more than 14 million shares or nearly 25% of that 60 million share repurchase goal.
So lastly let me take a few moments and provide some comments related to potential 2014 pension cost.
And I'm going to use September 30 as a baseline.
And as of September 30 our year-to-date investment returns are approximately 4%.
And based on the 10-year treasury rate we could see an increase of approximately 80 basis points in the discount rate which would give us a discount rate of about 4.92%.
So if we were able to set our 2014 FAS expense using that 4% year-to-date investment returns and a 4.9% discount rate our estimate of 2014 FAS expense would be about $315 million.
So holding all other assumptions constant every 25 basis points change and this assumed 4.9% discount rate results in about a $60 million change in 2014 FAS expense.
The impact of the higher discount rate and the 4% investment returns likely would improve our funded status in all the plans to over 90% from the 83% we had at the end of last year.
And then finally at this point we would expect 2014 CAS expense to increase to about $625 million partly or largely due to the benefits of CAS optimization [ph].
Now I know I should point out that and remind you all that our assumptions can change likely to change between these estimates and year end.
So we're going to have to really see where we end up at the end of the year in terms of discount rates and investment returns.
And I also should point out that under these same set of assumptions our required cash contributions for 2014 would remain under $100 million.
So Steve I think with that we're ready to take some Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Frances we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Wes I wondered if we could just maybe try to discuss what you were talking about with the 2014 top line a little further.
I know you gave us some color directionally there but with somewhat limited quantification.
Maybe if you just assume sequestration holds relatively close to its current form how would you expect the pace of decline in 2014 to look? And is it possible that -- you mentioned sort of the shorter-cycle versus the longer-cycle dynamics which you saw pretty clearly or you're seeing pretty clearly in 2013.
Is it reasonable to sort of expect actually all of the operating segments to look reasonably similar in terms of the pace the rate of change in '14 versus '13? Noah I think inherent in your question is the reality of a lot of moving parts here.
Clearly it's too early to tell which way the budget outcome will be.
You suggested a thought process around a continuing sequester.
And clearly as we make our plans for our cost structure and our overall approach that's heavy on our minds and we want to be prepared for just about any outcome that might ensue here.
But one thing I would point out that I think it's important for everyone to understand as we think about 2014 and Noah to your point the difference between the short-cycle and the long-cycle businesses in each year the definition of a short-cycle business is that they are going to be more attuned to what actually happens in the amounts that the customer community can go out and obligate within the year whereas for the longer-cycle businesses their sales in any particular year are more heavily dominated by what was obligated in prior years.
So there's sort of a delay effect and even actually a filtering effect if you will that goes into the calculus for the sales on an annual basis in the longer-cycle businesses.
And that inherently provides a little less volatility in what we see in the longer-cycle businesses in any particular year-over-year comparison.
But the shorter-cycle businesses as I mentioned are more directly attuned to what's actually getting obligated year-by-year.
So in the situation that you described where we do have part 2 of the sequester next year where there's something in the order of another $20 billion that gets addressed towards the DoD accounts we would expect that to show up more quickly in the short-cycle businesses.
I think that's about as much color as I can give you on it.
Until we see some more particulars and details it's hard to get out in front of that and I wouldn't think it wise to try to.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question Wes about something you guys have talked about on prior calls and just sort of overall competitiveness.
And I want to you to if you can address kind of a couple of elements of that whether it's the impact of pension or IRAD or your overhead rates and how you think about your cost structure.
I mean obviously the F-16 win was a big strategic win you called out.
But there's been some other big competitions that haven't gone your way this year in jammer and AMDR and some of these others.
And as you look out at how Northrop Grumman competes vis-à-vis its peers as we go into next year with obviously a pension benefit you've been pretty aggressive on the cost structure how do you think about competitiveness as we look into next year and you try to grow in your growth areas? Carter I can give you 2 dimensions to that.
Competitiveness obviously has a strong component of cost structure and sort of the broader affordability actions that we've been taking for some time.
And I'll come back and touch on that.
But competitiveness also has a strong component around innovation and our ability to continuously put forward new ideas and be competitive on the basis of good thinking and that requires investment.
And so let me touch the innovation part of it first.
As a company we've been working hard to ensure that we can maintain our investments in technology across the board.
We are a technology-driven company.
And it is just an absolute strategic imperative for us to make sure that we are both maintaining our own internal investment and that we are doing a good job of capturing the available opportunities for customer investment in advanced technology within our company.
So that's a strong part of not only our culture but our operating discipline and our ongoing operating rhythm within the enterprise.
You've heard in my remarks a few comments about our capital investments and how we're going to continue to make sure that we are investing for the long term in our infrastructure so that we're able to be innovative and able to support the type of research and development that we know we need to do to stay at the top of the pack in that regard.
So from a broad competitiveness perspective innovation is a big part of it.
Affordability is another big part of it.
And just our overall cost structure is something that we've been aggressively addressing over the last number of years.
And it comes in just about every flavor that you can imagine of the cost structure and you listed several of them.
In terms of the headcount part of this and our overhead structure we have been going at that very aggressively.
Through the end of September our headcount is down about 19% from our peak of just a few years ago.
So that doesn't just happen.
That's the result of the entire organization realigning itself to a much tighter cost structure much tighter management structure across the enterprise and a much more efficient way of operating.
We've made similar large reductions in our footprint.
And when we look across the board at all the components of our overheads and the direct cost that go into our contracts we've been very aggressively addressing those.
Jim has talked a little bit in the past about pension and the actions that we've taken to make sure that our pension plan is well-funded and some of the benefits that that provides us.
So that's also another component to it.
So competitiveness is a multidimensional beast.
It's one that we take very very seriously.
We do look at every single contract loss as well as every contract win and go after a set of lessons learned from that to make sure that we're doing the very best that we can on all fronts.
And the other thing I would mention with respect to some of the recent contract announcements I think some of the things that you've seen us do AMDR is a good example of it where we are pressing the boundaries of areas where we have historically not had much of a footprint and attempting to see if we can go into some of those areas.
We're going to be successful at some and not successful at others but we're going to keep doing that because I think we have a lot of opportunity to leverage the incredible technological capacity of this enterprise to continue to support our customers in new and different ways.
So that's kind of a long-winded answer to your question Carter.
But I think it's important to have that framework as we think about the future of our enterprise.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Elizabeth on for Ron.
I just actually had a question regarding your backlog.
Yesterday Lockheed reported that their aeronautics backlog was up and yours is down.
So I was wondering if that has to do with how you're recognizing LRIP 6 and 7 of the F-35.
Or what's driving that decline? Well we're certainly more than just F-35 in our overall backlog.
And if you look particularly though at F-35 we did book LRIP 6 and 7 back in the second quarter not in the third quarter.
And so there's a timing differential that goes with any particular program within the overall backlog.
But year-to-date our backlog across the board is I think performing very competitively and certainly continues to be an area of strong focus for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
It's Jon Raviv on for Jason.
Just a question in talking about cash flow operating and free cash flow building blocks for next year.
It sounds like pension could provide a tailwind certainly from a required perspective.
But also from a discretionary contribution perspective can you talk about that? And then also you mentioned that CapEx might be up.
So can you just size those different moving pieces as we move from this year to next year on that cash flow line? Jon we will give our 2014 guidance in January when we -- in accordance with our normal plan when we release fourth quarter results.
I do agree that not having required contributions in 2014 or not expecting to have required 2014 contribution is a benefit.
But we'll just wait until to January when we give all of our guidance for 2014.
Your next question will come from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The question I had was more of a top-level question maybe for you Wes or Jim from your insights and history.
You're bringing down and not just you but the industry is bringing down its workforce at a pretty healthy pace.
And it's a painful process but you're bringing it down well in advance of the revenue declines that are showing up.
And is there any quality of service metrics that you're using from the customer that you're still keeping up with the quality of service that they're asking for that there's no dropping of the ball here? Obviously it's a hard process to manage on the way down and sometimes you cut too much before you realize it.
I'm just curious how you're measuring that as you go.
Yes Myles that's a very insightful question.
And let me give you a little bit of color on sort of a few dimensions to it.
We constantly are monitoring the view of our customers in terms of our performance in a number of different dimensions.
We are fortunate to work in our industry where we get an enormous amount of feedback from our customers whether it's award fee scores or the CPARs that we get or the regular interaction that we have because our team is working with our customers arm-in-arm every day.
We receive an enormous amount of input.
And we also receive that on the quality side as well.
So it is actually something that we built into our operating rhythm within the company our operating review process and look at it across every single one of our businesses every month in our entire enterprise.
And we have it built into our incentive system as well.
So it is an area where that feedback mechanism is absolutely critical.
And we're trying to make sure that we are not just looking in the rearview mirror and looking at that feedback.
We're working to ensure that the real-time nature of that is impacting our planning in each of these areas.
When I think about the kind of the human part of this equation on a go-forward basis across our enterprise it clearly is important that we find the right balance in staffing levels.
But it's also incredibly important that we manage what we have in terms of the overall intellectual capacity of the enterprise across the industry and at least the civilian side of the government enterprise.
We do have a shifting demographics.
And that means we have a large number of folks who are well within the timeframe of a 10-year retirement cycle.
And it poses some real challenges for all of us across our enterprise to make sure that we're doing the right thing in bringing the newer parts or the newer members of our organization up to speed very very quickly.
It also means that we're out recruiting aggressively.
And an interesting thing about our industry right now is that while we are bringing the headcount down because of that transitioning demographic we are out recruiting aggressively.
In fact within our company I mentioned to you that we brought our headcount down about 19% since our peak of just a few years ago.
We're going to hire on the order of 4 000 to 5 000 people at Northrop Grumman this year.
And it is something that a lot of people don't expect that that's actually what's going on.
So we're bringing in a lot of folks.
We're bringing in a lot of bright folks.
We're bringing in quite honestly in some areas some new innovative thinking that's actually making us better in a lot of dimensions so there's a strong positive upside to this.
But there's also a strong part of managing that transition to make sure that we can with very high confidence continue to deliver all of the things not only that we've signed up to but that we're out pursuing as we go forward into the future.
So the people side of the equation not only in our company but across our industry and across more broadly the defense enterprise is a big part of the equation here over the coming years that's going to require a lot of very focused management attention to make sure we get it right.
Research Division</strong> That's good color.
And just a clarification Wes it's not -- it is really a workforce reduction it's not an outsourcing make-buy decision that's causing that accelerated decline in the labor force is it? No it's not a make-buy.
In fact I will tell you there have been some areas where we've had to bring things in-house because of some weakness in the supply chain.
Yes and that's not generally something that we like to do but we will do it where we need to to make sure that we're going to be able to deliver our products and services.
So we have over the past now 3 years really ramped up our monitoring engagement with our supply chain so we can stay out ahead of those kind of issues.
Your next question will come from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wes you talked about some of the uncertain environment with regards to the budget and continuing resolution.
And I'm just wondering can you talk about how you think about that with respect to the capital deployment and the plan to shrink share count by 25%? Because in a quarter where there probably was a lot more uncertainty it seems like you had really stepped up the buyback activity relative to previous quarters.
So I mean should we expect to see more clarity before you really step up more? Should it continue at this kind of pace? Can you just talk about them? Sam we think about that a lot all the time.
And I would just give sort of a couple basic principles.
First is we take a long-term view when it comes to capital deployment in particular share repurchase.
We take a long-term view of the value that we see in our enterprise and how we see the various forces out there impacting that sort of a long-term value perspective.
We're clearly an enterprise that's generating a lot of cash.
And we also look at -- and so this would be the sort of the second principle we look at the alternatives for the use of that cash and how we help generate that long-term value through the uses of the cash.
So it's not as if we just set the throttle on one speed and just stay throttled up whatever happens.
We constantly are assessing those parameters as well as our environment and making our decisions on that basis.
Your next question will come from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On Electronic Systems over time your backlog has come down a little bit.
You're now below $9 billion for the first time in quite some time.
The revenues have held up reasonably well.
Could you talk about how you see the top line going forward? And I'd say both the contribution from U.S.
and from international is this something we should expect more of a top line decline here? Or can this turn around? Doug this is Jim.
I think our guys at ES have been doing a fabulous job frankly and backlog is a -- with the large international content that our ES sector has backlog is always influenced by the timing of those major international orders.
Probably that's the impact that you're seeing more than anything else I believe in Electronic Systems.
Once you win one of those major programs you have a revenue stream that likely lasts for a number of years.
Typically those programs have an S-curve associated with them where you start off smaller and build over time and then decline as you get near completion.
So we haven't given guidance for '14 yet so I think the comments that Wes had at the beginning of the call around the longer-cycle businesses likely having a better balance if you will as we go into '14 are how I would frame it at this point.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And if I can just on when you're looking at the long versus short cycle on the IS&amp;T side when you look at that I guess you call it more of an 8% reduction right now.
How much of that has been due to in-theater force reduction? How big a portion of that would you tie it to this? Across our portfolio and largely IS and TS have the biggest exposure to the in-theater.
We have been estimating that in the aggregate for the year it would be about $300 million.
I would say probably about 1/2 to 2/3 of that is from the IS sector.
Some in ES as well yes.
But it's largely there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And some in TS too? Some in TS.
A little bit in TS yes.
But it's really IS and ES.
And as we go forward into '14 obviously with the drawdown sort of winding down we would expect that over the course of '14 we'd pretty much see the tail of it.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Wes I wanted to engage you actually on a similar topic the short-cycle long-cycle thing but really focusing in on IS.
And you've had a little bit of a pop in the backlog here this past quarter.
You've led us to believe that next year it's going to be weaker than the other sectors and I can see that given the longer backlog trajectory year-on-year I guess.
But do you think that's the last year next year where we say that and maybe the lines cross going up beyond that? I'm not asking for guidance obviously.
But just in terms of profile do you think maybe next year is the last year? And then just within IS you've talked about the different pieces in the past and how you're pretty comfortable with how you're positioned.
Maybe just give a little update as to where we saw some of the backlog strength and how you're thinking about the various pieces from here.
Sure.
If I had a crystal ball I'd feel a lot better about the outlook here.
And I know there's a lot of concern and consternation about what happens with some of the shorter-cycle businesses.
But I guess the way I would frame it is it's one of those effects that has the shortest time constant sort of from a physics perspective.
When things are going down in a top line environment they're going to go down the fastest.
And when things start turning they'll go up more quickly because of the inherent built-up demand pent-up demand that gets sprung loose once things turn around a little bit and the fact that they are short cycle.
So is '14 a bottom for the short-cycle businesses across our industry? I don't know.
It all depends on what happens with things like sequester and the broader budget decisions that are in front of us so hard for me to call that one.
All I can say is it will react faster to whatever the change in the budget environment turns out to be.
With respect to your question on the components of IS sort of across the board the businesses had been doing I think reasonably well.
There are parts of that business -- and so we talk about short cycle and long cycle.
Within IS there are shorter shorter cycles and slightly longer shorter cycles.
And I would say a lot of the work that we do on the defense side probably has a little bit of the longer of the shorter cycle in IS.
And it's probably been a little bit stronger to some of what we've been seeing here.
And some of the work that we do on the intel side as well has that characteristic.
Steve has described in the past sort of the delineation between the different parts of the businesses where on the order of about 40% is kind of what you put into that maybe shorter shorter-cycle piece.
And so it has different characteristics more driven though by the nature of the work being done than it does by the nature of who the customer is because all of our customers have some degree of longer-term contracting versus shorter-term contracting.
Your next question will come from the line of Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually 2 questions.
The first one is 2014 while we have a lot of visibility issues presumably you have some visibility of your foreign business.
That's longer lead time.
Can you give us a rough sense of what percent will foreign be of your sales this year? Is it still 7% or 8%? And what sort of relative growth rate would you expect? Give us a range for next year.
Yes.
Cai we had said that for 2013 we expect our international revenues to be in the 10% range.
It was about 8% in 2012.
So for '13 we're looking at in the 10% range for the international revenues.
Again I think it's a growth area for us.
I'm not going to give you a number for 2014 since we haven't given guidance for 2014.
It does feel like it's going to be increased as well again as we look to next year.
Yes.
Cai I guess the color I would give on that is as we've talked about our opportunities on international you can see that some of them are a little bit longer in development wave than others.
Clearly unmanned is an area that we see over the longer term as having a lot of opportunity whether we're talking about Korea Australia or Japan many of the countries that have been quite open and vocal about their strong interest in growing their unmanned capabilities.
And it's upbeat [ph] by being supported by the U.S.
in that regard.
C4ISR is another area where we see a lot of opportunities around the globe.
And those also sometimes take awhile to develop.
As Jim referenced earlier and I think in one of the responses to one of the earlier questions about Electronic Systems ES continues to have a very strong international business base.
And we continue to see a lot of interest and a lot of demand for pretty much their full product set.
So that is encouraging to us.
And as you know we have a big footprint on both the Joint Strike Fighter and the F-18.
So all of those areas put together suggest a nice set of international opportunities for us as we look into the future.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question.
I think earlier this year you talked about an objective of taking your share count down 25% by the end of 2015.
As your stock price has kind of moved up so aggressively here what's the tradeoff? Are you going to back off from that or kind of commit more of your cash flow to that? How does that all work? Yes.
Cai when we announced the 25% reduction goal we characterized it as market conditions permitting.
As Wes responded to an earlier question we do take a long-term view of the company its portfolio how well it's positioned the revenue and cash flow-generating capability of the company.
And we make decisions on a regular basis about the pace and the quantity at which we buy based on the facts and circumstances at that point in time.
We haven't backed off at the 25% goal at this point.
As I mentioned for the first 2 quarters that the goal has been in place we've repurchased a little bit over 14 million shares or almost 25% of the goal.
So we I think have plenty of flexibility to deal with the overall goal as we look through the next little bit over 2-plus years.
Your next question will come from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
The question I have is we keep hearing the long-cycle businesses.
I had thought that by '14 we would start to see the long-cycle businesses have an impact.
I mean but maybe I guess the backlogs are a little bit longer than I thought.
So do we push that out to '15 now where you really start to see the long-cycle businesses start to match up with kind of what we've seen for some of the shorter-cycle businesses? George if you think about the typical life cycle of those long-cycle businesses you're probably thinking about kind of a 3-year period of performance 2 to 3 years maybe even a little bit longer depending upon the nature of the products.
So really all of this is going to depend on those budgetary decisions that are going to need to be made as Congress deals with the 2014 budget and whether or not there are any major changes to individual programs.
All of those will be the major driving factors on the long-cycle business I believe more so than anything else.
And George there's another effect as well that I think is sometimes missed in the process.
When monies are appropriated they're not instantly obligated.
And so it takes some time.
And sometimes that time is measured in more than a year between when it's appropriated and when it gets obligated.
And so we're still seeing things getting obligated that were appropriated 2 years ago.
So that is another part of that delay or stretch if you will that is more inherent in the long-cycle business.
The nature of the business as you know George unless there are unexpected decisions made on program changes or cancellations the nature of the business with its long cycle gives you time to look through the windshield of what's coming your way and make your cost decisions to manage the company in anticipation of what you see coming your way.
So again without unexpected decisions we have the ability basically to manage the business based on what we see coming.
No I appreciate that.
And you guys have done a great job in trying to do that.
But I was looking at it from a standpoint of the revenue side when we start to see the revenue step down from some of these long-cycle businesses like we've already seen from the short cycle.
I wasn't questioning the margin side of it.
Yes it's kind of hard -- it's hard to predict based on how the flow of obligated amounts is going to go and what the spend rate is of those obligated amounts over the duration of the program.
So kind of hard to call that at this point.
Frances at this time I'd like to conclude this session.
I'd like to turn the call over to Wes for final comments.
I'd just want to wrap up again by thanking all of our employees across the enterprise for their continuing hard work and commitment and also thanking our partners in government for all that they're doing.
Our nation just put our government employees through a pretty tough period over the past month not something that should have happened but something that did happen.
And I will tell you from my own observation that's a team that stood tall and continued to execute their mission very well.
So we're all fortunate to be beneficiaries of their hard work as we go forward.
Thanks everyone.
Thanks for your continuing interest in our company.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Derek and welcome to Northrop Grumman's fourth quarter and year-end 2013 conference call.
We provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access at www.northropgrumman.com.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to safe harbor provisions of federal security laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
Matters discussed on today's call may also include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled in the supplemental PowerPoint presentation.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Jim Palmer our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Steve.
Hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
As I look back on 2013 a year characterized by a great deal of uncertainty it's gratifying to have achieved strong performance.
We met or exceeded our guidance for every metric and that's due to the hard work and dedication of our entire team.
So I'm going to start our call today by congratulating our employees on a job well done in 2013.
Our financial results for the year demonstrate the benefit of superior program performance.
We continue to focus on reducing costs innovating for affordability meeting program commitments to our customers shaping our portfolio and of course generating cash and deploying our cash to create long-term value.
Our sectors continue to produce strong segment operating margin rates.
Although we had slightly lower segment operating income the benefit of our share repurchases more than helped offset the EPS impact.
Full year diluted earnings per share rose 7% and on a pension-adjusted basis 2013 diluted earnings per share increased 5.5%.
Cash generation was also strong.
For the year before the impact of pension prefunding we generated cash from operations of $2.8 billion and free cash flow of $2.4 billion.
On a reported basis free cash flow of $2.1 billion represents a free cash flow yield of approximately 13% and net income conversion of 109%.
In 2013 we used our cash to invest in our businesses fund our pension plans repurchase stock and pay dividends.
Our capital spending increased by approximately $50 million in the fourth quarter as we ramped up our investments in our Aerospace Systems Centers of Excellence.
In addition we made a $500 million discretionary pension contribution and we repurchased 27.3 million shares of our common stock for $2.4 billion.
As of yearend we repurchased 20.8 million shares toward our previously announced goal of retiring 60 million shares by the end of 2015 market conditions permitting.
Share repurchases in 2013 reduced our weighted average diluted share count by approximately 8%.
We also increased our quarterly dividend by 11% last year and paid shareholders dividends of $545 million.
In 2013 we distributed nearly $3 billion of cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
This represents approximately 140% of reported free cash flow.
Cash from the balance sheet was more than $5 billion at yearend reflecting the $2 billion of net new debt we raised last year and substantial cash generated by our operations.
So as I look at 2013 performance I'm particularly proud of our results in the context of last year's challenging U.S.
government budget environment.
In contrast to the challenges in the U.S.
market last year we are seeing growth in our international business.
In 2013 we grew our international sales by approximately 20% to $2.5 billion.
International sales were slightly more than 10% of total revenue in 2013.
Our Aerospace Systems and Electronic Systems sectors both posted higher sales for the year and growth in international business was a significant contributor to top line growth for those sectors.
At AS the wrap up on NATO AGS contributed to their sales growth.
And for ES growth in their core portfolio of international offerings was a driver of their top line growth in 2013.
We see emerging opportunities around the globe that our portfolio should allow us to address.
In 2014 we expect international sales to increase to approximately 13% of total revenue.
Beyond 2014 we see growing demand for our unmanned platforms manned military aircraft airborne surveillance electronics cyber sustainment and other offerings.
We captured new awards of $21.9 billion in 2013 for a book-to-bill of 89% and we began 2014 with a total backlog of $37 billion.
Awards in 2013 were impacted and in some cases moved to the right as a result of budget uncertainty and turmoil.
Now that we have a budget we and our customers can plan with more confidence compared to where we were at this time last year.
We're still in a difficult and evolving budget environment but we now have a 2014 appropriations bill that provides program direction.
And importantly the Bipartisan Budget Act passed in December set discretionary spending levels for both 2014 and 2015.
We expect this will alleviate some budget cuts that would have occurred if sequestration had been triggered again.
These actions reduced some of our customers' budgeting uncertainty and increased their ability to make strategic spending decisions.
Overall we're pleased with the 2014 budget outcomes for our programs but it continues to be a challenging U.S.
budget environment in terms of absolute dollars spent on national security.
And we expect that we'll be continuing pressure on the investment accounts especially for research and development.
As our customers deal with these pressures there is some uncertainty as to the program decisions they may make this year and in the future to conform their spending to these reduced budgets.
The resolution of that near-term debt ceiling issue also poses some additional uncertainty.
We understand the need for disciplined spending to address our nation's fiscal challenges.
How we get there needs to be rational and supportive of maintaining our technological superiority and our national security.
Our nation needs a balanced strategic approach to our fiscal challenges.
We need to recognize that to assure our technological advantage over the longer term our country must invest in the near term.
Now turning to guidance for 2014 we expect sales to range between $23.5 billion and $23.8 billion with earnings per share of $8.70 to $9 cash from operations of $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion and free cash flow of $1.7 billion to $2 billion.
At the midpoint our sales guidance implies a top line decline of approximately $1 billion or 4%.
Jim will provide more detail but more than half of the change reflects continued pressure in our short-cycle businesses: Information Systems and Technical Services.
The remainder of the variance reflects our expectations for lower volume in some programs in Aerospace Systems and Electronic Systems somewhat offset by our growing international sales in these sectors.
But considering all of these factors together I see 2014 as another year of good opportunities for our company with continued strong cash generation and cash deployment to create value.
Our guidance contemplates continued share repurchases that support our goal of retiring 60 million shares by the end of 2015.
In conclusion our 2013 results demonstrate strong performance in a challenging environment and our priorities remain the same in 2014: driving performance effectively deploying our cash and optimizing our portfolio for the future.
Our record these past few years demonstrates that we can do this successfully and I'm delighted to be working with our company's talented team to create long-term sustained value.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
I also want to add my congratulations to our team on their outstanding work this past year.
We performed very well in a tough challenging and uncertain environment and importantly sustained the performance improvements we generated in 2012.
Our teams' efforts led to another excellent year for our company.
So let me spend a few minutes and review those results.
Segment operating margin rate was 12.5% in 2013 versus 12.6% in 2012.
On a year-over-year basis net favorable adjustments declined by $232 million.
This decline was partially offset by higher contract margin rates resulting from several factors including the continuing effect of prior net favorable adjustments across our portfolio of contracts.
Total operating margin rate for the year improved 30 basis points primarily due to a $49 million decrease in corporate and unallocated expenses and an improvement in our net FAS/CAS pension adjustment.
Corporate unallocated expenses improved due to lower provisions for disallowed cost and litigation matters as well as the favorable settlement of overhead claims partially offset by changes in state deferred tax assets.
On a pension-adjusted basis our operating margin rate increased to 12% a new record for the company.
As Wes mentioned 2013 cash generation was outstanding and a real performance highlight.
Before the impact of our voluntary pension pre-funding cash from operations totaled $2.8 billion which is comparable to 2012.
Free cash flow before pension contributions totaled $2.4 billion and more than $10 per share.
During 2013 we distributed approximately $3 billion to our shareholders or more than $12 per share.
Based on the average daily share price during 2013 our cash distribution yield per share was approximately 14%.
And in addition to the cash distribution yield our share price increased 70%.
So it really was an exceptional year for the company and for our shareholders.
Let me spend a few minutes now and talk about 2013 sector results and provide some thoughts on 2014 guidance for each of the businesses.
Aerospace Systems fourth quarter sales declined by 7%.
You might remember that AS had a particularly strong fourth quarter in 2012 so this was a difficult comparison.
Aerospace Systems fourth quarter margin rate declined to 11.5% from 13.8% last year.
And again you may recall that 2012 had an unusually high fourth quarter margin rate that benefited from a couple of large positive adjustments in space programs.
For the year AS sales totaled $10 billion slightly higher than in 2012 and margin rate of 12.1% in 2013 is comparable to the prior year.
For 2014 we expect AS sales to range from $9.7 billion and $9.9 billion with a margin rate in the mid to high 11% range.
The expected sales volume reflect lower volumes for our programs like Global Hawk Fire Scout E-2 and the James Webb Space Telescope partially offset by expectations for higher volume from NATO AGS and the E-2D.
Electronic Systems also had outstanding results this year.
Fourth quarter sales increased 6% due to higher volume for space programs international and combat avionics and fourth quarter margin rate declined due to somewhat lower net favorable adjustments.
And for the year ES sales increased 3% reflecting volume in space and international programs while maintaining a robust 17.1% margin rate.
For 2014 we expect ES revenues will range between $6.8 billion and $7 billion and top line guidance for ES contemplates slightly lower volume due to some continued impact from force reductions in overseas contingency operations and lower revenues for some radar programs partially offset by higher international sales.
We expect ES operating margin rate in the low- to mid-15% range for 2014.
And although lower than 2013 I think it's still very healthy and indicative of continued strong execution at ES.
Information Systems; sales declined by 14% in the fourth quarter and 10% for the year.
Declines in both periods reflect lower funding levels including the impact of sequestration and government shutdown and lower volume due to in-theater force reductions as well as some contract completions.
In addition for 2013 the transfer of intercompany sales by our shared services organization reduced sales by almost $100 million.
And excluding the transfer sales would have declined by 9%.
ES maintained a strong 9.9% operating margin rate in the fourth quarter.
And for the year margin rate was 9.6% which is about 70 basis points lower than last year largely due to a $73 million decrease in net favorable adjustments.
For 2014 we expect IS sales will range between $6.1 billion and $6.2 billion a decline of about 7% due to the continued in-theater force reductions wind down of several programs and lower funding across a number of our contracts.
We expect IS to maintain a strong mid-9% operating margin rate in 2014.
Moving to Technical Services fourth quarter and 2013 sales both declined by 6%.
Trends in both periods reflect lower volume for integrated logistics and modernization programs at the KC-10 as well as the ICBM program restructuring.
Operating income for both the fourth quarter and the year reflect lower sales partially offset by improved performance.
Operating margin rate expanded by 40 basis points in the fourth quarter and 30 basis points for the year.
High margin rates for both periods reflect improved performance across several programs.
For 2014 we expect TS sales of approximate $2.7 billion a decline of about 5% reflecting lower funding and in-theater force reductions as well as some lower volume for the ICBM program.
For margin rates we expect a high 8% margin rate for TS in 2014.
So on a consolidated basis we expect 2014 segment operating margin rate will be in the high 11% range.
Turning to pension items our 2013 planned asset investment returns were slightly more than 8%.
So on a GAAP basis our funded status of our plans increased to 93% at the end of 2013 from 83% at the end of 2012.
Due to higher interest rates the discount rate has increased to 4.99% from 4.12% at the beginning of the year and we are maintaining our 8% long-term rate of return expectation as well.
So based on those assumptions we expect 2014 FAS expense of approximately $115 million a decline of about $260 million from 2013.
And we expect our CAS recovery to be approximately $555 million which was an amount comparable to 2013.
I should point out that that CAS amount could move up or down by about $40 million dependent upon actual participant demographics and we would expect to know those results in the third quarter of 2014.
At this point we expect our net FAS pension adjustment will be income of approximately $440 million or an improvement of $272 million from 2013.
We expect 2014 corporate unallocated expenses to return to a more normal level in the range of let's say $150 million to $200 million compared to $119 million in 2013.
And as I pointed out 2013 included some nonrecurring items that reduced corporate unallocated expenses that we don't expect to repeat in 2014.
When we consider all of that we would expect total operating margin rate in the high 12% in 2014.
For interest expense we expect interest expense of approximately $285 million up from $257 million in 2013 with the additional interest expense reflecting a higher debt level for the full year of 2014.
We expect a tax rate of about 32% to 32.5% in '14 versus the 31.8% in 2013.
And as I know you all know that 2013 tax rate included a benefit actually for 2 years of R&amp;D tax credits of $37 million and our 2014 expected effective tax rate does not include an R&amp;D tax credit which at this point has expired but it does include the benefit of the expected resolution of the IRS exams for the tax years 2007 through 2009.
And our 2014 earnings per share guidance of $8.70 to $9 contemplates a 8% reduction in weighted average shares outstanding to approximately 215 million shares which is again a reduction similar to what we saw in 2013.
We expect cash from operations of $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion and free cash flow of $1.7 billion to $2 billion.
The cash guidance does include the benefit of 2014's lower pension contributions net of income taxes which is essentially offset by lower segment operating margin.
The other major variable is working capital which has the potential to be plus or minus $100 million.
At this point due to the strong funded status of our pension plans our required contributions in 2014 are only $74 million.
Our free cash flow guidance does include a ramp-up in capital spending to about $600 million into 2014.
I would expect that -- this level of capital spending to continue for the next couple of years.
At the same time I expect the required cash contributions -- cash pension contributions in 2015 and 2016 will also remain low likely less than $100 million while CAS pension recoveries are also likely to increase.
So in summary our guidance contemplates solid operating performance and strong cash generation in 2014.
Barring any major disruption to any of our major programs we expect this type of performance to continue beyond 2014 which will allow us to make additional investments in our business while continuing to execute a balanced cash deployment strategy that returns a substantial amount of cash to our shareholders.
So Steve with that introduction I think we're ready for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Jim.
[Operator Instructions] And with that Derek we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will be from the line of Finbar Sheehy Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> You had a pretty impressive run on the share price this past year and you talked about reducing share count distributing cash that way to shareholders.
So I'm just wondering if there's a point which the share price would give you pause or [ph] how you think about balancing cash to share repurchases to other uses if the share price moves up.
Well we did talk and have talked for quite a while about a balanced cash deployment strategy investing in our business managing the balance sheet competitive dividend and returning excess cash to shareholders.
We do take a long-term view of the company its portfolio the strength of the portfolio the cash generation capability of our company and all those factors go into our thoughts around our share repurchase program.
So I think that pretty well sums up our thinking.
It really has not changed from where we've been over the last number of years.
As I tried to say in my summary comments barring any major program changes I would expect the performance that we've had in '13 to continue into '14 and likely beyond.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So yes you don't have a sort of price where you think about...
We make decisions essentially every day around our repurchase program.
We tend to approach our repurchase program with a 10b5-1 program that we put in place for a period of time based on a grid that does vary the amount of purchases based on share price.
Now we look at that grid on a regular basis whenever we put a new program in place.
Your next question is from the line of Jason Gursky Citi.
Research Division</strong> Jim I was wondering if you could maybe just walk us through the various puts and takes in guidance and what would cause you to reach both the bottom end of guidance and the top end just kind of where the risks lie as we move through the years so we can kind of track things.
Well as I thought about the guidance range and essentially the sector operating margins probably the biggest variable is both AS and ES our largest segments those would be probably the largest variables.
And really it's going to come down to individual program performance.
Largely in those 2 sectors I would think would be the major variables.
I don't know that we're going to have a lot of movement around necessarily the other 2 sectors.
And tax rate probably has a little variance around it and corporate allocations.
Unallocated costs always have some variance to it.
And then frankly the other variable would be weighted average shares per year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I don't want to put words in your mouth but it sounded to me from kind of pure operations perspective is just execution on both [ph] the programs that are already in the contract that there's no reliance on the budget that's coming up and new signings to get things to where you need to be for the year? Yes.
Our business much of it comes from the backlog in the current year.
A little bit less so at IS but for the 2 other longer-cycle businesses much of it has come from the backlog.
The other variable frankly would be individual program decisions that may be made during the year that obviously if we had a termination of a program of a major program unexpected at this point of time that could be a variable as well.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Nadol JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So Wes when we look at backlog and bookings the funded backlog was down 12%.
The overall backlog I guess including unfunded was down 9%.
Your sales guidance is middle of the range down 4% for 2014.
So I guess it's a single 1-part question but really with a couple of components.
Can you offer a bookings guidance for the year to give us some sense if you expect backlog to come back a little bit at some point? And if not when does that decline in backlog start accelerating your sales declines? Each year we think hard about what's in front of us in terms of the competitive environment and what our customers may or may not do.
In my remarks earlier I noted that we saw in 2013 just a general perspective in many parts of our customer community that made it difficult for them to pursue the awarding of new contracts as aggressively as I think many of them would have wanted to.
And we saw some things move to the right.
We may see some more of that this year.
Clearly the investment accounts continue to be under some pressure in '14 and I think in '15 as well as the department wrestles to the ground what it's actually going to do with the appropriated amounts that are out there.
And we all know it takes a little bit longer to deal with force structure and investments become a little bit more the variable as we get through that.
So how do we look at '14 in that regard? I think there's going to be real pressure in the investment accounts this year just as there was last year.
I think we'll gain a little bit more insight into that as we get the president's budget and can see with a little bit more clarity how the department is sorting through the profile that's going to be using to navigate through '14 and '15 as it looks forward to '16.
But getting out in front of that right now I think would be a little bit premature.
Clearly we always want to push for a good book-to-bill but the message that we've given the team and I think it's important for everyone to understand is we're looking at quality in the business not just quantity.
We want to make sure that we're doing things in a way that's going to ensure that we can continue to grow our value.
So that's the domestic side.
The other part that I commented on in my remarks was international.
We expect to see that continuing to grow this year and there are some opportunities there that would add to the backlog as well.
So we're looking at it comprehensively and I think that's probably about the breadth of the remark I can make on book-to-bill at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean we do have a 2014 budget at this point.
It's 2015 that we're waiting for.
I know of course it's very important but most of your bookings this year would come out of '13 and '14 anyway domestically.
So at...
Yes.
What I was referring to there is when the 2015 president's budget gets put on the table I think we'll have a better insight into potential award profiles over the next few years.
And since your question related to book-to-bill and not so much sales that award profile really drives more the book-to-bill perspective.
Your next question is from the line of Carter Copeland Barclays.
Research Division</strong> At the risk of being extra boring I'm going to ask you Jim about a topic so near and dear to your heart and that's pension.
I know you like it so much so I wondered if you might be able to help us step through what the FAS/CAS adjustment would be with no changes in assumptions if you were to look out to 2015 and 2016? Well you're really asking me to get my crystal ball out aren't you? Research Division</strong> No no change to assumptions no crystal ball.
We'll pretend nothing ever moves.
And we all know that's really the case.
Research Division</strong> A great assumption I know.
Yes.
But to answer your question if I were to look ahead for the next couple years with no change in assumptions I probably would see net FAS/CAS moving up about in the range of 200 to 225 each year '15 and '16 which essentially means that FAS is going to hold about constant where it is and CAS will move up by about that amount each year as we look through time.
As you probably know a big part of that is due to CAS harmonization.
And as we go through time that CAS harmonization does phase in.
And by the end of 4 years it's completely phased in.
But CAS harmonization is essentially much more of a settlement concept meaning heavily dependent upon interest rates and so to the extent that interest rates do fluctuate over a period of time that could drive a rather significant change in those assumptions around CAS particularly in the latter years.
Your next question is from the line of Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I use some of the numbers what you've put in terms of percentage of sales of international it would seem like you're going to get another 20-plus percent kind of growth this year.
So I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what's driving that growth and somewhat related what competitions we should be watching to unfold this year.
There are several things sort of across the board driving growth.
Clearly our electronics business has historically been our strongest performing internationally and they continue to do very well in that regard.
And in terms of the breadth of their footprint and the breadth of their offerings I think we're just going to continue to see electronics have a number of broad opportunities scattered around the globe quite frankly.
The area though that's perhaps new in our story with respect to international is unmanned and we've started that process with the capture of NATO AGS.
And that program continues to go well and it was kind of moving up its curve if you will in terms of the volume it represents for Aerospace Systems.
Over the course of this year an important one to watch of course will be Global Hawk for Korea.
And it's -- it too is I think a very important milestone both in terms of the program itself but also in terms of what it represents for exportability of this class of capability to our allies around the globe.
So that's an area that from my perspective is one that's going to be important as we look to the future.
Now our other businesses IS and TS also have international opportunities that range from the work that we're doing in C4ISR to Cyber to sustainment.
So it's a fairly broad-based activity that we're seeing in terms of the international opportunity space in front of us.
And we're of course thoughtful and we want to make sure that each of the steps that we take on an international basis is aligned with what our allies really need and what our customer community can support.
But I will tell you that we've been seeing an increasing focus within the DoD to help make sure that our allies are able to access the capabilities that they need to both be interoperable as well as to be a bigger part of the overall global security equation.
And so I'm cautiously optimistic that that trend will continue and that we'll continue to see this expansion of footprint opportunities.
Your next question is from Myles Walton Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just want to clarify one thing.
I may have misheard it.
But the CapEx number for '14 and go forward of $600 million? I'm just not sure I got that right.
I haven't seen you guys do that since you owned a shipbuilder.
Well we are looking at around $600 million in '14.
And I do think the CapEx will stay -- I don't know if it's going to be at $600 million in '15 or so but it's going to be higher than it's been over the last couple of years.
You might remember in the first part of 2013 actually first quarter we announced Aerospace Systems Centers of Excellence moving some businesses down in there and expanding our operations down in Florida.
So we're adding to capabilities down there and we're going to be building that out over the next 1.5 years for sure maybe even a little bit longer.
And Myles it's Wes.
I would just say that from a broader perspective that Centers of Excellence approach does a number of things for us.
It helps us over the longer term on our affordability which I think is a critical part of our competitiveness.
It also helps us in terms of better managing our human capital base and being able to concentrate our activities in a more integrated manner and take maximum advantage of the skill sets that we have.
So this is an important part of our longer-term strategy and from our perspective investing in our business makes a lot more sense.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And the real question was on the favorable adjustment.
It sounds like they were down $230 million so the underlying margins were quite strong even with that decline.
And so I'm curious what kind of profile you've built in or baked in for '14 versus '13 in the high 11s in the segment margins.
Our margin guidance Myles is based really on our expectation for the overall margins in each of the businesses as opposed to any [ph] expectation if you will around individual team catch-up adjustments.
As you know we've looked at our businesses and our competitors' businesses that are similar to ours and how they view of what the benchmark margin rates ought to be for each of those businesses and we're [ph] driving our organization to perform at the top end of those ranges.
So it's really based much more on expectations what the business ought to do.
Clearly we have an understanding of margins in our backlog and all of those become factors in our thinking about margin rate guidance for the year.
Your next question is from the line of Ron Epstein Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a big picture question.
When we think about maybe 2 things so one on the financial side.
When you complete the current buyback plan you will have I think bought back about half the company incrementally over the last 8 years approximately.
Why not just buy it all back at once? Why chase the stock higher? You know what I mean? I mean why not take the company private? I mean have you thought about it? Any thoughts you have on that? Yes.
It's Wes.
Let me give you kind of a broader view.
Yes when we think about capital deployment and the approach that we think that makes the most sense we often use the term balanced approach because we want to be investing in our business.
We want to obviously take care of our pension plan as we go along which we've been very good stewards of doing over the last number of years as well as returning cash to shareholders.
And ultimately when we think about that overall longer-term perspective the path that we've been on for a number of years is what has made the most sene to us.
And as we've talked about our outlook for this year we've been pretty clear that that path continues to make the most sense to us.
We go through as every company does a periodic review of our full range of alternatives.
And as we do that we think about what really does make the most sense for our shareholders over the longer term as well and that has led us to the conclusion that it has put us on the path that we're on and we continue to see that as a very very good path.
And as we indicated in our remarks we remain focused on our goal of retiring the shares that we've outlined through the end of 2015.
Trying to project where we'll be beyond the end of 2015 at this point would be I think a little bit too speculative.
But to answer your question directly we do think about that broad range of alternatives.
And as a conclusion of that thinking we're doing what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just jumping over and out to more program-specific stuff.
How should we think about the transition in the airplane business as we see probably F-18s start ramping down and F-35s ramp up? Is there -- how do you view the margin exchange there? I mean is there some margin headwind? How do they offset each other? Well clearly F-18 is a mature production program.
We're not quite there yet on F-35.
So as we transition there may be a little bit of an impact there.
But frankly our aerospace sector is much broader than F-18s and F-35s.
E-2D is an important part of that portfolio.
The space part is there equally important part as well as the unmanned portion of the portfolio.
All factors all factor into the overall margin rates at Aerospace Systems.
Again when we look at our competitors in that business the margins that we've been generating I think are really strong margins for the type of business we're in.
And we'll continue to manage that business as best we really can.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And maybe just one last one.
On the investment side again when we think about -- and there's been some of this in the press and I realize you're limited what you can say.
But on this next-generation bomber program given you guys teamed up against a formidable other team will we expect a ramp up of kind of internal R&amp;D money on that given the importance of that program potentially to the company in the future? Ron it's Wes.
I think all I can say there is that clearly we have a strong legacy in the business of providing bombers to the United States Air Force.
We're proud of that history and our capability in that regard.
And I think our shareholders should count on us to do the things that we think are appropriate to continue to position our company for the long term there.
I think that's about all I can say on it.
Your next question is from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Jim as I take a look at your margin guidance for this year my question is is this just the typical conservatism that you put in early in the year? Or is this really the beginning of a trend to get back to some of those normalized margins that you brought up I don't know how many years ago for which you've been way over-earning? George George George.
We look at our business every year based on -- as I said we know what's in our backlog.
We have expectations what the business ought to be able to generate.
Frankly if I look at guidance for each of our businesses versus performance over the last couple of years other than ES the guidance is very close to what they actually have been performing at over the last couple of years.
ES on the other hand had just an outstanding 2012 and 2013.
And again when I look at a competitive situation those kind of margin rates on a long-term basis in that business I just don't know that we can maintain them over that long time -- long-term period.
Low- to mid-15s is really strong margins for our business.
And so I'm very comfortable with our guidance for this year.
There's always a possibility of changes as we go through the year as we see actual performance.
So could they do better? History would say they probably could.
I look further back history would say they could probably be a little bit worse.
So on balance I think again it reflects our best judgment at this point in time of where we think each of these businesses are going to be able to perform for the year.
Okay.
And let me just ask for Wes your comment on the Jammer contract that Raytheon won.
Do you have any color you might share? No nothing beyond I think what we talked about in the past.
We take each of these competitions and approach them as we think is the right approach for our ability to offer and our customers' ability to offer.
And when we don't win we take that very seriously and go back and scrub and try and learn our best lessons from it.
But I don't -- other than as I said what we've communicated on that in the past I don't think we have any new perspective.
It continues to be an important business area for us.
The whole EW field is one that I think is going to continue to grow.
So nothing about that particular outcome causes us to reevaluate being in this business.
If anything it causes us to just learn some lessons and redouble our efforts here.
We think that's a very important business area.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to come at this margin question in a little bit different way.
Wes I guess the guidance for lower margins does it speak to anything around the cost reduction opportunity that you see in the company today relative to what you've been able to do over the last couple of years relative to headcount? Or maybe at this point some of those savings actually starting to find their way back to DoD as contracts reprice? Your perspective is correct.
We're in a business where the results of our cost reduction activities ultimately go back to our customer over time as we go into new contracts and that's good.
I mean that's as an important part of the way our industry works.
It helps us to drive affordability for our customer community during a period of time when obviously their budgets are under a lot more pressure.
But at the same time when we're talking about profitability part of the challenge and opportunity that we have is to continue to figure out how to do things at an inherently lower cost use some of the innovative capacity in our enterprise to do that so that we do have the opportunity to continue to make a good profit on what we're doing.
So there's always a balance point in this.
I would say our guidance obviously reflects where we think we are in our full set of contracts from a total cost perspective and affordability perspective.
But let me also be clear that we're going to continue to drive affordability.
Yes we have taken a lot of actions over the last few years to enhance our competitiveness and to reduce cost both in headcount and in footprint as well as in a broad variety of efficiencies in our enterprise.
You're never done at working on cost and we're going to stay at that.
It continues to be an opportunity in front of us.
But clearly as we think about guidance on margin rates we factor in that aspect the aspect of how we price on new contracts as well as obviously what Jim said our broader view of how these businesses should perform.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
In terms of a follow-up on the international side with that ramping up as a percentage of the overall business is that -- I would assume it's additive to the margin profile.
And then would you expect some of that work to bring -- to benefit you on the advancement side of things? On international yes generally our margin rates in international are a bit more attractive than the domestic business not universally but overall.
In aggregate they are.
And depending on the type of contract whether it's FMS or if it's a sale in some cases yes that can help on advances.
But each and every one of these is a negotiation.
So we deal with them sort of one at a time as opposed to in aggregate.
At this time I'm showing no further questions the queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Wes Bush for any closing remarks.
Thanks Eric.
I just would say thanks everyone for continuing to be interested in our company.
As I said in my earlier remarks we're very pleased with the outcome for 2013 given the challenges of the environment in which we operated.
It is a reflection of the hard work and dedication of the team across our company.
And I think quite frankly it's also a reflection given how difficult last year was in our customer community.
It's a reflection of the partnership that we have with our customers.
They went through some pretty tough times last year.
And I think as a nation we should all recognize and respect what our customer communities had to deal with in navigating through 2013.
We all feel a little bit better about where we are from a budget perspective in 2014 having an appropriations process that's back closer to normal.
We hope that continues.
We hope that we can get back to regular order on a more regular basis and see this as the path that will allow our customer community and our industry to plan and to do the things that are necessary to ensure our national security.
So thanks everyone.
Appreciate your continuing interest and look forward to the opportunity to interact with many of you over the coming months as we prepare and launch into 2014.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman's First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Glenn and welcome to Northrop Grumman's First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to safe harbor provisions of federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainty which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
Matters discussed on today's call may also include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled in today's earnings release.
We will be posting updated company and sector overviews that provide supplemental information on Northrop Grumman and our 4 sectors.
You can access our updated company overview and the sector overviews on the Investor Relations page at www.northropgrumman.com.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Jim Palmer our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thank you Steve.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
Our team is off to a good start for the year with a solid first quarter set of results.
We continue to focus on superior program execution affordability and innovation in our drive to achieve strong sustainable results.
We're proud of our team's performance and the continued focus on delivering value for our customers.
First quarter earnings per share increased 30% to $2.63.
Excluding this quarter's tax benefit for the partial resolution of the IRS examination of tax years 2007 through 2009 earnings per share grew 18%.
Strong operating performance favorable pension trends and the reduction in share count were the primary drivers of this quarter's results.
We were also pleased to see the increase in awards relative to the first quarter of last year.
First quarter sales were consistent with our guidance for the year.
We continue to see lower volume for programs associated with in-theater troop withdrawals program ramp-downs and program transitions.
Growth in our international business is partially offsetting these impacts.
We expect these trends to continue with declines in domestic programs being partially offset by higher volume for international programs which represented 14% of our year-end backlog.
First quarter segment operating margin rate increased to 12.9% primarily due to strong program performance.
Total operating margin rate was 14.4% reflecting operational strength and favorable pension trends.
During the quarter we repurchased 4.8 million shares for $564 million.
Share repurchases reduced weighted average shares outstanding by approximately 9%.
As of March 31 we had repurchased 25.6 million shares or more than 40% toward our goal of retiring 60 million shares by the end of 2015 market conditions permitting.
Cash from operations was a use of approximately $400 million principally due to higher working capital and we ended the quarter with cash of approximately $3.9 billion on the balance sheet.
As you know the first quarter is typically our lowest in terms of cash generation.
Jim will provide more detail on cash later in the call but I would note that we continue to expect healthy cash flow for the year and we are maintaining our full year guidance for cash from operations and free cash flow.
Backlog at the end of the quarter was $36.2 billion which includes new awards of $4.9 billion.
We had solid award trends in 3 of our sectors.
Electronic Systems had a book-to-bill of 111%.
Information Systems had book-to-bill of 92% principally due to awards in cyber solutions.
Technical Services also had solid awards this quarter.
Aerospace Systems with a book-to-bill of 60% was impacted by timing of awards.
As our longest cycle business awards here tend to be larger and less frequent.
Although our customers continue to cope with declining budgets and the threat of sequestration returning in 2016 most of our programs were well supported in the President's fiscal year 2015 budget.
And over the long term we see a significant set of opportunities aligned with our core capabilities both domestically and internationally.
In OEM we were pleased that the President's budget proposal specified Global Hawk as our nation's high-altitude long-endurance ISR platform for the future.
The program is currently on contract for long-lead advance procurement for 3 Global Hawks in Lot 11 and the President's budget calls for funding a future upgrade and sustainment efforts.
Our team worked very hard to improve Global Hawk's affordability and this program is a good example of effectively combining innovation and affordability to produce a good outcome for our customer.
In recognition of our performance and cost-effectiveness the Air Force awarded the Global Hawk team the Roche Sustainment Excellence Award for the second year in a row.
Last month Korea signed a letter of offer and acceptance for the acquisition of Global Hawk Block 30s an important first step toward finalizing a contract.
The Royal Australian Air Force also announced its interest in acquiring Triton for its future maritime high altitude surveillance and several other countries have expressed interest in both Global Hawk and Triton.
We see international sales of our HALE platforms as a robust long-term opportunity.
Regarding the UCAS-D platform we continue to demonstrate its utilization in the carrier environment.
The National Aeronautic Association recently honored our X-47B demonstrator team with aviation's highest honor the Collier Trophy for developing the first unmanned autonomous air system to operate from an aircraft carrier.
Our UCAS-D experience provides a strong foundation for our future efforts in unmanned systems.
On the manned military side we and the navy are working towards a multi-year agreement for the E-2D Advanced Hawkeye which continues to be very well supported in the budget.
The F-35 also continues to be a priority program and we expect it will be an additional source of international growth.
And while we can't say much about the long range strike opportunity it is a high priority effort for the Air Force and an important opportunity for Northrop Grumman.
Our space programs are well supported in the budget.
The FY '15 budget provides for incremental funding of SBIRS GEO 5 and 6 and SBRIS RDT&amp;E funding is consistent with prior expectations.
For advanced CHF the FY '15 procurement plan continues the incrementally funded block buy of satellites 5 and 6.
Information Systems the incumbent on the navy's kings [ph] development contract is competing for the follow-on production work which is expected to be awarded later this year.
Beyond this CIRCM program the next-generation countermeasure system slated to protect rotary wing aircraft is an important competitive opportunity for our Electronic Systems team.
ES successfully completed acceptance testing on the first CIRCM suite of equipment 2 months ahead of schedule.
ES will now compete for the EMD phase which is expected to be awarded next year.
CIRCM has the potential to be a multibillion dollar opportunity over the life of the program.
ES has also competed for 3DELRR the Air Force's next-generation long-range radar system.
This competition is expected to be decided this year and would also likely to have potential for future international sales.
So while the U.S.
budget environment continues to be challenging particularly for our short-cycle businesses we had a good long-term set of opportunities that includes the potential for continued growth in international sales.
Based on first quarter results and our financial outlook for the remainder of the year we are increasing our earnings per share guidance to a range of $8.90 to $9.15 from our prior range of $8.70 to $9.
We continue to expect sales of $23.5 billion to $23.8 billion and we are maintaining our [indiscernible] of $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion in cash from operations and $1.7 billion to $2 billion for free cash flow.
So now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of our results and our guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
As Wes said just another solid quarter.
Our team continues to execute in a demanding environment and I also want to express my sincere appreciation to them for their continuing dedication.
My comments will focus on sector results and our cash outlook for the year.
So starting with the sectors.
Aerospace where sales declined by $65 million or 3%.
The volume decline was largely in space programs and unmanned systems with the unmanned volume decline primarily due to lower production activities on Global Hawk and Fire Scout.
These declines were partially offset by higher volume on the NATO AGS program.
Operating income increased by 20% due to strong performance and a $48 million increase in net favorable adjustments.
The higher level of adjustments was across several contracts none of which were material on an individual basis.
For the year we continue to expect sales to range between $9.7 billion and $9.9 billion and we expect AS will have a margin rate in the high 11% range versus our prior guidance of mid to high 11%.
Turning to Electronic Systems first quarter sales declined by 4% due to timing of deliveries for various combat avionics programs as well as the lower deliveries of navigation and maritime systems.
Declines in these areas were partially offset by double-digit growth in international activities.
Operating income declined 9% and operating margin rate declined by 90 basis points.
You might recall that last year's first quarter benefited from the reversal of a $26 million non-programmatic risk reserve.
While this year ES had favorable adjustments of $57 million which were $23 million lower than last year.
So for the year we continue to expect sales of $6.8 billion to $7 billion with an operating margin rate in the low to mid 15% range.
At Information Systems first quarter sales declined by 6% or about $100 million.
IS experienced lower funding across a broad number of programs including a decline in about $40 million due to in-theater troop drawdowns.
The decline in IS first quarter operating income was in line with that lower revenue and operating margin rate was comparable to last year's first quarter.
For the year we continue to expect sales at IS to range between $6.1 billion and $6.2 billion and we now expect that IS margin rate in the high 9% range versus our prior guidance of mid 9%.
Moving to Technical Services first quarter sales declined 3%.
Lower revenues reflect volume declines for the Hunter and ICBM programs partially offset by higher volume for the KC-10 program.
During the quarter we completed the acquisition of Qantas defense systems and TS operating income and operating margin rate increased due to improved performance.
For the year we continue to expect sales of approximately $2.7 billion with a high 8% margin rate.
On a consolidated basis first quarter segment operating margin rate improved to 12.9% 60 basis points and included a $23 million increase in net favorable adjustments.
The remaining performance improvements reflects the higher booking rates across our portfolio that resulted in part from EAC adjustments in prior quarters.
As a result of this quarter's strong performance we're increasing our full year guidance for segment operating margin rate to approximately 12% and we now expect a total operating margin rate of approximately 13%.
I would also note that we had a lower tax rate this quarter.
This quarter's 23 point -- 26.3% effective tax rate reflects a $51 million benefited -- benefit related to the partial resolution of the IRS examination of our 2007 to 2009 tax returns.
This quarter's benefit from the partial resolution of that IRS exam is higher than what we had assumed in our initial 2014 guidance.
And as a result we now expect an effective tax rate of about 31.5% for the year.
Last year's first quarter effective tax rate includes a $20 million benefit related to the reinstatement of the research tax credits.
On the other hand our 2014 guidance does not include the potential renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit at this point.
Our lower effective tax rate combined with this quarter's strong segment operating income were the primary drivers of the increase in our 2014 EPS guidance.
Turning to cash from operations we used $402 million in the quarter.
That cash use was principally driven by changes in trade working capital largely influenced by the timing of cash receipts including the burn-down of international advances.
As you know the first quarter is typically our lowest quarter for cash generation and we are seeing this same trend this year but there are a couple of items that also drove the higher working capital.
And that is on the balance sheet that advanced payments declined by more than $200 million from year end and as I mentioned earlier that material rate decline resulted from the burn-down of international advances.
Also you may recall that we had a very strong cash generation at the end of last year some of which was a pull-forward of payments for aerospace programs that we would've expected in the first quarter of this year.
Free cash flow for the quarter was the use of $462 million with capital spending in the quarter of $60 million up from $40 million last year.
We did continue to expect capital spending of approximately $600 million for the year capital spending to support the establishment of our centers of excellence will be ramping up in the second quarter.
And as many of you know our capital spending is typically weighted towards the second half of the year which will also be the case this year.
As Wes indicated we're comfortable with our 2014 cash outlook from cash from operations and free cash flow.
One final item before I turn the call over to Steve for questions and answers.
And that at sometime later this year the Society of Actuaries is expected to finalize new guidance for mortality assumptions.
For national reporting purposes these new assumptions are likely to be in effect at year-end 2014 for the measurement of our projected benefit obligations.
If that is the case these new assumptions would then impact 2015 FAS pension expense.
The mortality assumptions used in the trend in our future CAS expenses would also need to be revised.
The new assumptions when fully implemented will likely result in increased liabilities increased annual FAS and CAS pension expense and potentially increased funding requirements depending upon the funding status of the affected plans.
This applies in all cases holding all other assumptions constant and with no change to applicable funding regulations.
In our case even if the new mortality assumptions were to be immediately required for funding purposes year 2016 we would not expect a substantial increase in required plan contributions given our plan's funded status our prior contributions and of course holding all other assumptions constant.
So Steve with that I'd like to invite everybody [ph] for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Now with that Glenn we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Amit Mehrotra here for Myles.
Had a quick question on share repurchase.
You're executing well to your plan to retiring 25% of the shares by the end of next year.
But it'd be helpful to get your thoughts on how you're thinking about share repurchase beyond that.
Should we expect a shift in strategy maybe from cash allocation away from share repurchase more to M&amp;A? Can you just offer some thoughts on that? And where does acquisitions also rank when you look out beyond 2015 as well? Somewhere in April of 2014 and our plan as we have announced really carries us through 2015 so I really wouldn't want to today speculate what might be going on in our environment and how we might be thinking about things at the end of 2015.
All I would say is if you kind of look back over the last number of years and look at how we've been approaching cash deployment our priorities remain the same.
We like investing in our business.
We want to make sure we're doing a good job of managing our balance sheet.
And of course we're wanting to make sure that we're doing a good job of returning cash to shareholders.
So I would say we're a fairly predictable crowd in that regard.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up with respect to the backlog.
Could you just offer any color on where you see that shaping up by the end of the year and maybe provide some of the major awards out there that we can expect in the coming quarters? We don't guide on awards for the year.
As I noted in my remarks we clearly had a I think a respectable quarter in terms of awards.
And as I think about the set of opportunities that are in front of us predicting the exact timing quarter-to-quarter is always a little bit of a challenge given how things are tending to move around a little bit with the RFP dates and the rest.
But we see ourselves well positioned as I said in my opening remarks across each of our sectors for a number of important opportunities that are both the remainder of this year and in the next year.
So many of those are competitive opportunities that I mentioned but it's a -- also an important perspective to understand about our company that much of our sales in year derive from our current backlog.
In fact we expect that about 80% of our revenues this year flow directly from our backlog in the company.
And your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on some of the color you gave in the segments.
In aerospace where you cited lower unmanned can you quantify how much of that came down? And can you paint when the total unmanned revenue contribution bottoms? I know some things are moving higher some are moving lower.
And then in IS when you're citing in-theater reductions can you quantify what that total contribution is to the segment at this point and how it progresses from here? Yes no Jim obviously.
As we said IS sales for example were down roughly $100 million the in-theater stuff is less than half of that.
So again in IS you get -- Research Division</strong> In terms of the change? Pardon? Research Division</strong> In terms of how much it changed? Yes.
And then in terms of unmanned basically unmanned is largely flattish on a year-over-year basis.
Some small -- it's a little bit greater declines on as I mentioned the 2 programs Global Hawk and Fire Scout and then growth in NATO AGS and [indiscernible] down.
It's phenomenal.
Research Division</strong> Is the unmanned business growing once you're out of 2014? I believe so.
Yes I think if -- when if you look back at the remarks I made about the set of opportunities that we have in front of us clearly getting Triton into production is the I would say the biggest lever the biggest step and we're going through the test program today and that's doing well.
But the international side of unmanned is also quite intriguing.
I mentioned earlier about the step forward in Korea with the LOA and the growing interest that we're seeing around the globe in our High Altitude Long Endurance programs what we call our HALE programs both Global Hawk and Triton-based platforms.
So we see a lot of opportunity in unmanned in front of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sorry just so I'm clear on IS with the in-theater revenue what is the absolute dollar number not the rate of change but just how much it still is on an absolute dollar basis? Well across the company we're looking at about $800 million as I recall.
Steve is that right? Yes.
It's a $300 million reduction.
$300 million over -- from last year.
Year-over-year but $800 million for the year.
Yes across the company.
Research Division</strong> And how much of that is in IS? 2/3 3/4 something like that.
The reduction is probably -- 40% is IS.
Yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I think you said you expect your foreign business to go from roughly 10% to 13% of the total.
I mean it's a little tough to tell exactly what that is with rounding but it looks like that implies a gain of about 25%.
And you've mentioned several times the opportunity of HALE F-35.
Can you give us some color on where we should see that going next year? And where do you see this in like 3 to 4 years as a percent maybe give a range? Cai it's always difficult to time the exact point when all these international opportunities occur.
For me what's positive is that increasing interest across a number of countries in our High Altitude Long Endurance platforms.
So again I'm not going to call to exactly when that will occur.
Getting Korea done will be an important first step.
I believe that is important not only because of the opportunity but it serves to facilitate the next move behind it.
So again we're working very hard on Korea.
We have a Letter of Offer and Acceptance and the next step is to get that under contract.
That's what our team is working on.
And Cai I would just add in addition obviously to kind of a newer story for us in international being our unmanned opportunities as well as potentially some manned opportunities of the platforms like E-2D we continue to have a robust international business and set of opportunities through our Electronic Systems organization.
And in fact all 4 of our sectors are focused on a set of international opportunities.
Jim's point about the predictability of timing it is a very important one in the international business but we are very focused on this and are working it broadly across the entire enterprise today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And while I realize it's always difficult to pinpoint the timing it certainly looks like F-35 clearly is going to be a plus there.
HALE clearly will be a plus.
If you look out 3 to 4 years so that we're not timing it exactly I mean could this be 20% to 25% of your sales? Or any rough range you could give us? It again is kind of hard to say so much of what we do on export also depends on the nature of export control restrictions.
And I'm delighted with what I see happening today with the administration working hard to move things ahead as extensive commitment in DoD to step out and help through our policy changes that will enable the U.S.
to better support its allies around the globe.
But there are a lot of factors in the mix here that make it difficult to put a number or even a range of numbers on at this point.
But the vectors seem to be aligning in a very positive direction.
And your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So a big picture question that kind of follows on the heels of the spirit of Cai's questions as well in trying to get a sense of timing that as you suggest the exact timing is always difficult.
But in looking at the fiscal '15 budget the program decisions that were made within that and putting OCO aside and into your revenue streams that you've had and then just looking at your base domestic business do you have a sense of the fiscal '15 budget's implemented when you might see a trough for domestic revenue streams.
But Cai's looking at the long-term trajectory of international and I'm just kind of curious given what you see in the fiscal '15 budget when you think the domestic budget the OCO aside stabilize.
Yes the way I would characterize that is first and foremost obviously we're all delighted to be operating right now under a real appropriations.
This is a big step forward from where we had been in terms of predictability and the ability to plan and with the Bipartisan Budget Act that came together at the end of last year it does and I think this was a part of your question as well it does offer a better outlook in terms of predictability and stability for '15 as well.
So yes I think the real question is what happens after that? And there are a range of possibilities and sequester budget is a real possibility.
I think the President rightfully put forward to the Congress in the longer-term outlook a very strong message about what's really needed to support the security of our nation.
And the budget profile that came forward in the plan that the President submitted is above the sequester level.
How all that will work out through the politics over the next couple of years and I think it would be foolish to speculate on that at this point.
I do think it's rational to expect that the U.S.
budgets will eventually stabilize and clearly investments in security are going to need to start growing again.
But at what rate and exactly when I wouldn't want it to be in the spot of trying to predict that right now.
So we'll have to stay tuned.
I think there's a lot of work to be done to get the budgeting process in the right place to support national security as we work our way through '15 and really take on the challenges associated with that range of possibilities in '16 and beyond.
And I know a lot of folks have tired on the discussion around the sequester.
But I think we should all be realistic and understand that they're still an important set of policy decisions and budgetary decisions that are out there in front us that we're going to be taking on as we go through this year and next year.
And your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in how 2 things might affect your F-35 margins and the first one is volume.
And as F-35 quantities are down in the President's budget particularly for the C model and then a sequestration in 2016 would lead to some further reductions I'm interested in how and knowing that you do have volume considerations in pricing that could affect your margins? And then second over the past year the program office has made a point to try and look beneath the prime into costs in the subcontractor community.
I'm just interested in the volume question and then the change in the way the program office is looking at the program.
Does this impact you at all in terms of what your margin expectations are? Doug the volume's is a very important contributor probably the most important contributor to our ability to drive down the learning curve.
So volume is really important.
We've been coming down a very healthy learning curve already.
But as you point out volume is critically important to being able to continue driving down that learning curve.
Yes and let me maybe talk about the perspective on the program office side of it.
I -- the way I would frame this is Lockheed is I think doing a very good job as the prime on this program.
This is a team and so we have a big part to play as other companies in making the program successful.
And so naturally the program office is very interested in what the major teammates are doing and how that's going so I don't see anything unnatural in the process that has been underway.
I think it's sort of a natural step here particularly as we are together very focused on to Jim's point how we deal with the volume challenges that are out there in the near term and maintain an appropriate path forward on driving down the curve and driving the affordability that we know is so important for this program both domestically and internationally.
So I would characterize it more as the framework of the team environment that we need clearly with Lockheed on the front as the prime and doing the things that are very very appropriate for the prime to be doing.
But I could see -- I continue to see a very good team environment on F-35 and I think that's part of what is contributing to enhancing the success of the program that we're having now.
So I'm positive about the way we see F-35 operating today.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So given that performance improvements that you and others in the program have made if you balance that off against some of these other pressures such as volume would you say as you look forward you're more or less optimistic on your ability to get a good margin progression going forward? Well typically as we move forward in a program and move into the production phases that's where the industry has an expectation of making margin is in production.
We've all made substantial investments in this program and continue to make investments in the program and that is sort of a natural cycle.
So I don't have any different expectations and what experience would tell us should be the outcome.
And your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about Aerospace Systems and you threw -- you put out the $48 million worth of adjustments.
Can you just talk about is there any particular program that's a bigger percentage of that? And what was I guess contemplated in the earlier guidance that might've just been later in the year versus something that was new performance? You hit on an important point and that is timing.
Many times our EAC adjustments are tied to specific events as they occur.
We did have some of those events occur in the quarter that affected the timing of adjustments.
As our guidance would indicate the 13.4% for the quarter is not what we would expect aerospace to land for the full year.
So there are clearly some of those items affecting the first quarter.
As I said in my prepared comments none of the adjustments on an individual contract basis were material.
As I think that's a pretty good summary of what happened in the quarter just a good strong underlying operating performance and then some events that were tied to those timing aspects of the -- managing the programs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and if I can follow up something unrelated is May is typically when you look at some of your annual dividend and I know that you typically have very payout-focused but I'm just wondering is there anything about the capital deployment strategy that would change the way you look at that and the type of decisions you might make? Sam it's Wes.
You guessed May is typically when we look at that.
That is a board level decision.
I would not want to get out in front of that level of decision.
I would simply say what I said earlier our approach to capital deployment and priorities in capital deployment have not changed.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> There's been some talk recently about the recent green book that came out and what the DoD is projecting for outlays this year? I was wondering if you looked at this and how it tally with your revenue forecast for the year particularly on shorter cycle areas? Yes Rob we've of course looked at it and I will tell you we did not see anything in the green book that altered our outlook for 2014.
I think I mentioned earlier that over 80% of our 2014 revenues tend to flow from our backlog.
And when you look at what's in the green book clearly there's a lot of work done to pull that together.
The green book forecast really do not represent contractual ceilings and outlays which are typically quite a bit lower than Budget Authority.
The Budget Authority does represent kind of what the limit is so you need to be looking at the BA aspects of things.
So the short answer to your question of whether or not we saw anything in the green book that changed our outlook the answer's no.
And obviously the green book came out after we gave our forecast for the year outlook for the year and haven't changed our sales guidance.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just an unrelated follow-up the acquisition you made in Australia this quarter I was wondering if you can give us some of the background there of what this adds to the portfolio and whether we can expect further bolt-ons going forward? Rob we look routinely across the board at opportunities such as this.
We've not been a very major acquirer for quite a few years and I think that reflects the discipline that we have in looking at potential opportunities.
This was like a very nice fit and I think it's going to be a very nice fit for us.
It dovetails with the work that we're doing in our Technical Services organization both domestically and internationally Australia is a very important ally of the United States clearly a very important market for Northrop Grumman.
And so the fit from a portfolio perspective and a geographic perspective and a market perspective we found to be very attractive.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to kind of go in a different direction.
I mean there is an expression Willie -- I think Willie Sutton they said wherever Willie Sutton was he's going to rob a bank or where the money is he'll go rob the bank and your guys are banging your head to some degree against the wall with some of the difficulties that exist either in foreign sales or in DoD and not to say that's not your expertise but then there's these guys in Silicon Valley that are trying to spend billions of dollars solving problems that you've solved many times over Wes.
And so why aren't you approaching some of those companies or doing something to take advantage of all that money that's sloshing around solving problems you've addressed before? Howard I do appreciate your question because it's a good kind of a sanity check sometimes to look at all the things going on in the world around us and try and test what makes sense.
One of the things that I think we've learned I would say in our company and I think generally across our industry is that we are quite good at what we're good at and we tend to want to stay focused on that.
And periodically we do look at what other companies are doing and market access that they may provide to see if there are reasonable partnership opportunities and we explore those from time to time.
We've had I would say across our industry some notable successes in that regard as well as some abysmal failures in that regard.
So I think it's just prudent to be very careful and thoughtful about how you go about doing those things.
But we are a very technologically oriented enterprise.
I have mentioned a number of times our -- of our 65 000 employees more than 30 000 are degreed scientists engineers mathematicians.
This is a very very capable enterprise when it comes to advancing the state-of-the-art on technology.
And we have both an interest in partnering where we see that it makes sense.
But also we have and we take this very very seriously an obligation to our customer community to very carefully protect the technologies that are utilized from a national security perspective.
And so we're careful and diligent about balancing that out.
Research Division</strong> So should I take that to mean that some of these things that are percolating in the commercial -- I mean I get it how should I say it? It's hard to sell into a market that's got different requirements than what you're selling into now.
And it's your point on testing your comfort zone though these rewards might be fairly lucrative and they change the valuation of the enterprise.
And they -- I mean as you know when you were TRW periodically there were great successes but also there was -- There were.
Research Division</strong> There were also some "oops." And I think we've all learned from both of those sides of the experience curve and recognize that there are value-creating opportunities periodically.
You simply need to select your partners carefully.
You need to have a very clear view of what the real channels to market are and you need to be ready and willing to turn things off if it's not panning out.
And that guides a lot of our thinking and how we approach these things.
Research Division</strong> So I'm just trying to draw you into an answer that is that some of these things have some appeal or we tested them and no thank you very much we're very comfortable in our space? I would say that part of being a good partner is to protect the privacy of your partnerships.
And so we're very careful about anything that we would say about that too broadly.
But the one thing that we do say when we get out on campus to young folks that are thinking about their options and there's an incredible competition for talent in the technical space these days if you really want to work at leading edge technology and advance it our industry is the place to be.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So Wes I have a question for you that's been kind of brewing for -- since the last quarterly call which is on your CapEx plans because you guys have been pretty tight-fisted I think in a good way in terms of your spending in all kinds of ways including CapEx the last couple of years.
You've talked about aerospace centers of excellence as really kind of the key driver of the plane going forward.
And I wondering if you could maybe take a couple minutes and give a little bit more on what you're doing and why you're doing it.
Is it about more of a productivity or business capture? Is it programs that you already have or ones that you're chasing just a little more on the investment? Yes Joe.
I appreciate the question.
Aerospace Systems is certainly a big part of our enterprise.
And as you've heard us talk today about the set of opportunities that we see in the future from our perspective that set of opportunities is adequately robust to merit investment to make sure that we're doing the right things to be able to pursue those opportunities as well as to execute on those that we've already captured.
If you turn the clock back quite a few years ago we are a company like many in our industry built through acquisition and that had not necessarily resulted in the most efficient structure and architecture for how to get things done.
So as we have worked hard to clarify our strategy to make decisions in our company about what markets spaces we're really going to pursue and invest in versus those that we are not it's become clear had become clear over the last couple of years that we needed to re-architect our footprint to better align with that strategy.
And the benefits that we see from these centers of excellence are really severalfold and I think you touched on them in your question.
One is our ability to better align the human capital that makes these things work into centers of excellence where the people who are working on similar things are more closely co-located and we can better share the knowledge as well as to create new opportunities by having individuals more closely working together on a day-to-day basis.
Secondly the efficiency of the facility infrastructure itself has the opportunity to be dramatically enhanced with the investments that we're making.
And so we see that as very very meaningful and important from a competitiveness standpoint as we take on some of these new opportunities over the next few years.
And the third point that I would make as well is by having these teams working together and really creating centers of excellence we find that to be an attribute in recruiting and recruiting is an important part of our company and I know sometimes it's a little bit of an odd message for folks that -- who we think about our industry right now as perhaps shedding jobs and reducing footprint.
But even though we're down about 20% in headcount from our peak we hired about 5 000 people last year and we're going to do about the same this year.
So recruiting is a big part of our thought process as we think about how we architect our infrastructure and our capabilities to enable us to continue to support technological superiority and deliver capabilities for our customers.
So it's a sort of a multidimensional answer to your question but the -- all the rationale pointed in the same direction that now is the time to take the step and invest in our own future.
Research Division</strong> As we look at your financials the next 2 or 3 years where are we going to see this first? I guess that's -- is it moving work and more increased efficiency and productivity and higher margins? Or is it an uptick sale somewhere where maybe we're not expecting it? Joe I would say it's going to be a combination of improved efficiency to sustain margins and the potential for higher sales as the new program opportunities materialize.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just had one quick one for you Jim also the EPS guidance went up.
It may be up a little less than one might think since you raised your margin guidance and also had the tax benefit that wasn't fully incorporated.
Were there any offsets or is this just a Q1 conservatism? No actually the guidance raise essentially is about half tax rate and half guidance.
When I looked at our raise in guidance in terms of segment operating margin rates roughly 10 basis points or so that's about $0.07 to $0.08 $0.09 dependent from up where you are and the tax rate is about another similar amount.
So essentially that's the adjustment to guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of different questions here.
Just first Jim a clarification because it didn't get caught in the transcript here.
On the mortality comment you made earlier in your opening remarks did you say there was no impact or did you not quantify it? I can't quite tell.
Well what I said is this mortality discussion has been ongoing for a while.
We do expect that we should see some updates to mortality assumptions later this year.
If that occurs it will be in effect for year-end measurement of projected benefit obligations which then affect 2015 expense.
Research Division</strong> Right yes next year.
You can guess a range of what that may mean because obviously all of us are trying to understand what will be the updates to mortality assumptions whether or not or how directly they apply to our circumstances.
So frankly we're going to have to have a little bit more information and a little bit more time to study what it means.
Research Division</strong> Okay I think the expectation and maybe incorrect was that given that one of your peers actually threw a number out there which was probably subject to change once things are finalized you're just not in a position to that.
Well I think we can all speculate on what it may mean.
But I think as I said I think that it's in all confidence I can say that over the long term projected benefit obligations will increase that FAS and CAS expense will likely increase.
And dependent upon the funding status of your plans funding may be impacted as well.
The exact timing exact timing and in exact amounts at this point are a little bit of an unknown.
Research Division</strong> Unknown okay.
Two more.
This one Wes is for you and it's a little bit of a budget discussion again and on M&amp;A but you talked about the differences in fidelity perhaps between Budget Authority and outlays.
And given that sequestered budget authority in '16 would seem to be about flattish with Ryan Murray Budget Authority for '15 is it fair to say that on the domestic business you have really reached a trough or you can at least see it and what should that invite perhaps earlier M&amp;A activity now that visibility's improved a bit? I would continue to say that visibility has improved for '14 and '15 projecting the political dynamics between now and the appropriation cycle in '16.
It's not something I would want to be speculating on.
And if you just turn the clock back that amount of time instead of looking forward turn it back that amount of time backwards and try and predict exactly where we would have been today given where we stood then you would have been wrong.
So I think we're going to have to see how this plays out.
And I am concerned about it as I said in my earlier remarks and as I know our customers are concerned about it.
Anytime we're in a place where the President despite all of the challenge that we all recognize we're facing from a total budgetary authority perspective the President in putting forward a budget has to be as clear as I think the clarity was provided in this round that the current budget at sequester level just doesn't do it for national security.
But you have to see the pushback that initially came off of the Hill on that to me is a very strong signal that we've got a lot of political dynamics still in front of us.
Where it actually lands we're going to have to see.
Research Division</strong> So is this to some extent because of your exposure to the programs they've already talked about if sequester comes through in '16? It's not.
My commentary is not so much about our particular company's situation on this.
I'm speaking more broadly about the investment accounts and the O&amp;M accounts that our industry relies on and as a source of domestic revenue and related to that obviously what it means for core structure and the rest of it.
So those are all things that are bound up together the set of decisions that translate from the total budget levels into what actually gets invested in equipment in maintenance and the rest of it.
There's a lot that goes on in the world between now and 2016.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly on margins and this is really for either of you.
But you've done a great job and many in the space have in terms of getting ahead of revenue declines with your costs.
And certainly I think this translates well in the short-cycle contracts.
On the long-cycle side where would we be in terms of repricing to the new cost structure in terms of how much turnover have you seen where you've already re-upped the contracts or signed new contracts that have pricing that reflects your new cost structure and how much is left to do? Rob you can pretty simply do the math frankly.
If you look at the run rate of revenues in each of the sectors versus the backlog and that kind of tells you how much of...
Term.
Yes the term is.
Obviously aerospace is a little bit longer than the others and IS is a little -- it is shorter than the long-cycle business.
It essentially goes with the comments that we've been making all along about the longer-cycle businesses and the shorter-cycle businesses.
Research Division</strong> Yes but then there's the other the contract nuance that's not easily detected from outside.
I was just going to say that that is the nature of this business is continually repricing contracts every year when new contracts come up and continuing to manage cost on a day in day out basis.
That is the business.
The thing too I would add is be careful about a static kind of approach to thinking about the cost equation.
Yes we and others in our industry have made some good progress on managing cost and doing what I would describe as sort of a tough blocking and tackling approach on headcount and infrastructure and that sort of thing.
No one should assume that the game is up on cost management.
That's a constant focus certainly in our company and I think even more broadly than our company.
And as we look at all of the levers involved in that whether it's technology or architecture or the other elements of affordability and we all have to continue to be on the cost agenda if you will.
So it is not sort of a static model where you can say okay we've taken cost out now all go-forward contracts no longer get any benefit of future cost reduction.
If that were be the model we'd be in trouble.
Your next question comes from the line of John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on 2 topics from earlier in the call.
First on international sales and the growth opportunity there.
I was hoping that you could just elaborate on how to map that to some of the segments to the extent that Aerospace and Electronic Systems maybe have greater exposure to it than some of the other segments? And the second topic just to follow up on the last question that was asked.
I'm curious with the improvements in cost and productivity and you've certainly been differentiated in that right as well as the well-positioned pension have you found that to actually lead to any competitive wins? Or an ability to kind of position yourself as a lower cost provider and turn it into maybe a little bit of a better revenue trend? So on international the breakout that I would see if you're trying to map it to sectors clearly Electronics has our biggest footprint internationally has done so for many years run sort of in place on the range 20% 25% of its sales as international and sees continued very meaningful opportunities around the globe ranging from upgrades to radar systems to new sensor suites to both the airborne side the ground-based side.
And it is I think a very well-positioned and robust international business for our company.
Aerospace Systems is a little bit more if you will of a new story.
It's largely associated with the unmanned system capability and as well as I mentioned earlier we do see some manned potential around the globe in terms of our E-2D platform and potentially some others.
So it is more of an emerging international business has some footprint today in that regard that is I think rapidly growing.
With respect to Information Systems clearly the awareness and understanding of the importance of Cybersecurity is growing around the globe and we have a very important and well-established position here in the U.S.
and we are exploring the options for continuing to grow that.
IS has for some time participated I would say at a smaller level but in a growing way in the C4ISR domain for some international business.
So those are really the pieces.
Tech services by the way as well does a fair amount of training and maintenance support around the globe too.
So those are good opportunities for us that I think we're going to just continue to push on and see the opportunity expand.
Now with respect to your final question on cost clearly yes.
And it's important that we continue to work on the cost structure.
I would put it in the inverse manner that if we weren't doing it I'm sure we would be losing.
So hard to attach individual wins to a particular cost structure but we know it's vital to the competitiveness of our business.
Glenn I think we're out of time.
So at this point in time I'd like to turn the session over to Wes for final comments.
Okay thanks Steve.
As he said at the start the call the first quarter really is a good start to the year to us and I am just delighted that we were able to raise our EPS guidance based on the performance that we've seen in the first quarter.
So thanks everyone for joining us on our call today and thank you for your continuing interest in our company.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Northrop Grumman's Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
My name is Jasmine and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Jasmine and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of Federal Securities Laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainty which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
Matters discussed on today's call may also include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled in today's earnings release.
We will be posting an updated company overview that provides supplemental information on Northrop Grumman.
You can access our updated company overview and our sector overviews on the Investor Relations page at www.northropgrumman.com.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Jim Palmer our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
Our second quarter results reflect our team’s focus on delivering top performance for our customers and our shareholders.
As a company we continue to focus on superior program execution affordability and innovation.
I'm proud of our team's performance and their dedication to serving our customers.
This strong sustained operating performance combined with favorable pension trends and share repurchases contributed the higher second quarter earnings per share.
We are very pleased with the results of the half way point of the year.
Based on year-to-date performance we are raising guidance for segment operating margin total operating margin and earnings per share.
Our year-to-date segment OEM rate is 12.6% slightly higher than last year's results.
For 2014 we now expect a low 12% segment operating margin rate and a low 13% total operating margin rate.
We are increasing our EPS guidance to a new range of 9.15 to 9.35.
Second quarter and year-to-date sales are consistent with 2014 sales guidance which is unchanged at 23.5 billion to 23.8 billion.
We continue to see growth in our international business partially offsetting the impact of domestic budget pressures.
We expect this trend to continue in the second half of the year.
Cash from operations totaled $572 million for the quarter and we ended the quarter with the cash balance of approximately $3.5 billion.
We continue to expect healthy cash flow this year and our guidance for cash from operations and free-cash flow is unchanged.
Turning to cash deployment.
During the quarter we repurchased 6.1 million shares for 741 million.
Year-to-date we've repurchased 10.9 million shares at 1.3 billion.
And our weighted average diluted share count has been reduced by 9% year-over-year.
And we've now passed the half way mark toward our goal of retiring 60 million shares by the end of 2015 market conditions permitting.
Over the last five quarters we repurchased 31.7 million share toward that goal.
In may we increased our quarterly dividend 15% to $0.70 per share again demonstrating the importance of a competitive dividend payout ratio as part of our cash deployment strategy.
In addition to returning cash to shareholders we have also announced plans to increase investments primarily in our longer cycle more capital intensive aerospace systems and electronic system sectors.
We’re investing in our Aircraft Integration Center of Excellence in St.
Augustine Florida and increasing investments in our Manned Aircraft Design Center of Excellence in Melbourne Florida.
And we are increasing electronic systems capital expenditures by $50 million this year.
These AES and ES investments are examples of our ongoing effort to improve our strategic alignment with our customers’ need for increasingly innovative and affordable products services and solutions.
In addition to capital expenditures we’re investing in new business opportunities and investing in our ongoing programs to reduce costs improve affordability and enhance competitiveness.
We and our F-35 partners are investing in a blueprint for affordability initiative aimed at significantly reducing aircraft cost.
This type of investment strategy represents a win-win opportunity for industry and our customers.
Industry has incentivized to reduce cost and improve affordability.
As we demonstrate cost reductions we will recover our investments and have an opportunity to earn a return on that investment.
Our backlog at the end of the quarter was $35.6 billion which includes new awards of $5.3 billion.
I would note that this does not include the $3.6 billion E-2D multiyear award that we received after the close of the quarter.
Through the first six months of the year we’ve captured new awards of $10.2 billion including $665 million for the F-35; $552 million for our work on Virginia-class; submarines $460 million for the F/A-18 and $299 million for the B-2.
New awards for the first six months of the year represented 86% of sales.
Electronic systems and information systems had book-to-bill rates close to or more than one time sales.
Aerospace systems book-to-bill for the first six months of the year was impacted by the timing of the E-2D award.
Looking ahead we continue to have a robust opportunity set across the company including significant international opportunities for platforms like Global Hawk Triton F-35 and E-2D and in domains like C4ISR cyber and logistics and modernization.
We're pleased that our programs continue to be well supported as congressional budget negotiations progress.
While we are encouraged by the tone of fiscal year 2015 budget negotiations we remain cautious regarding the longer term vector of U.S.
Defense spending given the likelihood of another continuing resolution at the start of fiscal year 2015 and the potential sequestration in fiscal year 2016 if Congress does not act to avoid that outcome.
Despite these continuing uncertainties we are confident that the actions we’ve taken to reduce costs drive innovation and enhance program execution have positioned Northrop Grumman to compete and succeed over the long-term.
In closing we’re very pleased with our performance in the first half of 2014 performance that enabled us to raise our full year guidance.
Now I'll turn the call over to over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of our results and our guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
As Wes said another solid quarter.
Our team continues to execute very well and I want to add my sincere appreciation for their efforts.
My comments today will focus on our quarter and year-to-date sector results and I'll provide a little bit more color on our EPS guidance for the year.
The increase in our EPS guidance essentially reflects our strong second quarter performance and our current expectation for a 9% reduction in weighted average diluted shares outstanding for the year.
Turning to the sectors Aerospace Systems second quarter sales declined $111 million or 4%.
On a year-to-date basis sales were down 3%.
Lower volume for both periods reflects declines in unmanned systems and space programs with lower Global Hawk production activity and lower development activity on Fire Scout being the two biggest drivers of the trend.
These decreases were partially offset by higher volume on the NATO AGS program.
I would note that we continue to see unmanned as a long-term growth driver for our company particularly as international opportunities emerge.
Current unmanned revenue trends reflect a normal pattern we would expect as mature production activities ramp down like the Air Force Global Hawk program and transition to and ramp up on development programs like NATO AGS and Triton.
AS second quarter operating income and margin rates declined due to lower volume and quarter-over-quarter differences and risk retirement and performance improvements.
But on a year-to-date basis AS operating income rose slightly and operating margin rate was very healthy at a 12.5% rate.
For the year we continue to expect AS sales between $9.7 billion and $9.9 billion and based on the strength of year-to-date results we now expect an operating margin rate of approximately 12% versus our prior guidance of high 11%.
Electronic systems second quarter sales declined slightly and are 3% lower year-to-date.
Both second quarter and year-to-date results reflect fewer deliveries of navigation and maritime systems as well as fewer deliveries of infrared counter measure products.
Year-to-date results also were impacted by the timing of combat avionics deliveries during both the second quarter and year-to-date declines in domestic progress will partially offset by higher international sales which have increased 12% year-to-date.
ES operating income declined 10% for both periods due to lower sales and quarter-over-quarter differences in risk retirements and performance improvements.
You will also recall that during the first half of 2013 ES had a benefit from a $26 million non-programmatic reserve reversal.
For the year we continue to expect ES sales of $6.8 billion to $7 billion with an operating margin rate in the low to mid 15% range.
Our current guidance reflects second half ES margins in excess of 14%.
Information Systems second quarter sales declined 8% and year-to-date sales are 7% lower.
As you know Information Systems is our shorter-cycle business and has a greatest in-theater exposure of our four sectors.
The lower government funding levels continue to impact a broad range of programs in both periods and in-theater troop dropdowns reduced sales by $43 million in the quarter and by $86 million on a year-to-date basis.
Despite top line pressures IS increased operating income and margin rate in both the second quarter and on a year-to-date basis.
Second quarter income rose nearly 9% and margin rate expanded by a 150 basis points to 9.8%.
Year-to-date operating income rose 1% and operating margin rate expanded 70 basis points with trends for both periods reflecting improved performance.
For the year we continue to expect IS sales of $6.1 billion to $6.2 billion with an operating margin rate in the high 9% range.
Moving to Technical Systems second quarter sales improved due to higher international sales principally due to the Qantas defense systems acquisition which more than offset lower ICBM volume.
On a year-to-date basis sales are comparable to last year and also include higher international sales offset by lower volume across several other programs including ICBM and Hunter.
For the year we continue to expect sales of approximately 2.7 billion and we’re increasing our guidance for operating margin rate to approximately 9%.
On a consolidated basis segment operating margin rate was 12.3% in the quarter and 12.6% on a year-to-date basis.
Our year-to-date 12.6% segment operating margin rate reflects improved performance partially offset by lower net favorable adjustments.
As a result of year-to-date performance we now expect a segment operating margin rate in the low 12% range slightly higher than our prior guidance of approximately 12%.
And with the higher segment operating margin rate we now expect a total operating margin rate in the low 13% range versus the prior guidance of approximately 13%.
We continue to expect the tax rate of about 31.5% and I would point out that this does not include the potential renewal of the R&amp;D tax credits.
I would also note that we now expect a 9% decline in our weighted average diluted share count for the year versus the prior guidance of about an 8% reduction.
Turning to cash from operations we generated $572 million in the quarter and a $170 million on a year-to-date basis.
Free cash flow for the second quarter was $456 million with our year-to-date cash performance reflecting higher trade working capital than we had in 2013.
Consistent with our historical pattern we do expect our cash flows in the second half of the year.
On a year-to-date basis capital spending increased by about $90 million and we continue to expect capital spending of about $600 million for the year.
Capital spending to support the establishment of our centers of excellence has begun ramping up and we will continue to increase as we go through the second half of the year.
Given our historically strong second half cash flows as well as the expectation for the ramp up in the second half of capital expenditures we remain comfortable with the outlook for our 2014 cash from operations and free cash flow guidance.
A final item before I turn the call over to Steve last quarter I mentioned the Society of Actuaries was expected to issue new proposed guidance for mortality assumptions.
Those proposed changes have been issued.
They’re receiving a great deal of comment and discussion and so the logical question is what does it mean? So in holding all other assumptions constant and no change in accruable regulations the new mortality assumptions when fully implemented will likely result in increased liabilities increased annual FAS and CAS pension expense and potentially increased funding requirements dependent upon the funding status of the company’s pension plans.
The timing of the ultimately agreed upon mortality guidance and adoption requirements are uncertain but regardless of these timing issues we expect to update our mortality assumptions.
Our preliminary review of our own mortality experience would suggest an increase in liabilities in the 4% to 6% range.
For the applying purposes we are currently assuming that the new mortality assumptions will be in effect at year-end 2014 for the measurement of the projected benefit obligations.
And if that’s the case these new assumptions would then impact 2015 FAS pension expense.
Holding the discount rate constant and expect the rate of return and all the other assumptions we would expect that mortality rates to increase FAS expense by approximately $50 million for every 1% increase in our liabilities and cash cost would increase by about $40 million for every 1% increase in the liabilities.
We don't expect adoption as a new mortality tables to impact 2015 or 16 require contributions given our plans funded status than our product contributions and of course holding all other assumptions constant.
In addition to the potential impacts of the revised mortality tables we also need to keep in mind the Congress is currently considering a new Highway and Transportation Funding Act that which at this point includes extending the previous MAP-21 provisions that smooth pension funding requirements.
An extension of the MAP-21 discount rates that would result in for example a 100 basis point increase in our CAS amortization rate would likely offset much of the near-term impact of the mortality changes.
At this point we would not expect at the MAP-21 extension that have an impact and our funding requirements for either 2015 or '16.
And we do anticipate that resolution and these potential changes would occur yet this year.
Just to remind you everyone of our other FAS sensitivities a 25 basis point change in the discount rate changes FAS expense by about a net 60 million and a 10 million basis points change 100 basis points change in our expected rate of return on plan assets will change FAS expense by about 45 million.
And finally I would note that we expect to finalize our 2014 plan demographics in the third quarter which may impact our 2014 CAS cost.
So to summarize we now have potentially four major variables that can impact FAS and CAS cost: The discount rate; the plan returns; new mortality assumptions; and possibly a MAP-21 extension.
So a lot of moving parts; obviously we are following them very closely.
And we will provide updates to our assumptions and estimates as all of these elements become better known.
So Steve I think with that we are ready for questions.
Thanks Jim.
As a reminder each participant should limit themselves to a single question.
Jasmine will open the line at this time.
Jasmine?   (Operator Instructions).
And your first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hey.
Good morning gentlemen or good afternoon I should say and good quarter.
Thanks Carter.
Wes I wanted to ask a big picture question for you because it's getting to be that time of year where everybody gets engaged in their strategic planning process.
And when you look at where we are this year and where we've been in the past couple years you were obviously doing some planning with considerable amounts of uncertainty.
And I realize that per your comments there's still a good bit of uncertainty about what may happen in ‘16 and where the ‘15 budget may come out.
But when you sit down and you start crafting that long range plan how is that different this year relative to perhaps some of the scenario analysis and stuff you've done in the prior years and how much more emphasis are you putting on revenue growth and benchmarking on things like that as opposed to what you saw in the planning process of the prior years? Well Carter I guess I would just provide a kind of broad view of how we see the overall environment.
Clearly the deal that was reached at the end of last year that looked out for two years that was very helpful.
It provided a little bit more stability compared certainly to where we had been in the prior years.
But the reality is our customers of necessity plan over a much longer cycle than two years.
And I would say that they are still struggling to plan effectively given that we have a law on the books that says the sequester returns at the beginning of 2016.
Now you’ll notice everyone else did that when the President put forward his budget recommendations he was pretty clear that to support national security we could not be operating at a level that was dictated by the sequester.
So there are kind of two benchmarks out there right now one is the President's budget and the other is the sequester.
And it does create some fairly substantial uncertainty in the planning arena particularly from the customer optics as they are trying to profile out these multiyear programs and investment cycles and quite frankly as they are struggling to deal with everything that's going on around the globe given the budget pressures that we have in place today.
So I would say that there remains a fair amount of uncertainty out there.
Clearly the events around the globe I think are highlighting the importance of strong national security capability.
And hopefully as we move along through this year and get into next year we'll have a congress that can tackle some of those challenges and come to grips again with how to really go forward on a budget perspective.
In the more near term as we're thinking about next year I am glad to see the committee is appearing to make some progress as we're going through the appropriation cycle.
But I think it's increasingly clear that we're going to be in the CR as we migrate into FY15; hopefully that CR doesn't last for long time but it's hard to predict exactly how that's going to go.
So there is even little bit of consternation in the near term on this process.
I know there have been a number of folks out trying to make a call on what -- which year will be the trough.
Just given that range of uncertainties that I just described I think it's a little bit too early to call that.
So we're thinking about this as we have continuously throughout this process with a longer term perspective making sure that we are doing the right things that continue to position us well for the longer term working hard on our cost structure making sure that we're performing well and making the right investments to ensure that we’re going to be able to support our customers’ needs as we go through inevitable cycles in our industry.
Jim do you have anything you would like to add to that?  Yes just since we have probably a good portion of the Northrop team listening and they all know that we're doing multiple scenario planning for our plan; I just want to reinforce your comments and the level of uncertainty that as you look at a multi-year planning process that range of uncertainty over the years dramatically escalates.
And so yes Carter we are continuing to do multiple scenario planning even in today's environment.
I think it's just a healthy thing for any enterprise to do as well because it allows you to be prepared for a variety of outcomes and to test your decisions and your assumptions against a variety of outcomes.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Carter.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please proceed.
Hi Jason.
Hi it’s actually John.
Hi good afternoon guys.
It’s actually [John Aviv] on here for Jason sorry to disappoint.
Good afternoon John.
Hey how are you? Quick question on about IS in the in-theater exposure.
I was wondering if you could size that for us in terms of what you’re so close to there because revenue perspective and also which program that might be and given the fact that should surround the way out over the next couple of years.
How much more downsize is there than at what point and what altitude do you see there for some longer-term growth? We’re going to turn to our information systems expert Mr.
Movious to answer that question.
Sure.
The in theater for the company which is a combination of efforts over in theater as well as those contracts funded with OCO funds was about $1.1 billion last year we expect it to be about $900 million this year and IS does have the biggest piece of that.
Of the $200 million decline the bulk of that is coming out of information systems.
We have four programs that program areas that make up like two thirds of that sales volume and IS holds at least a couple of them.
So the bake in program which quite frankly will have legs even after the in theater effort is over.
The CRAM effort which will probably drop-off more materially as the in theater efforts wind down and then our electronic systems has a product area in IRCM as well as the laser business which again will drop-off somewhat but has the long-term viability in the marketplace.
So the $900 million is it going to decline in the future yes but a significant portion of that will continue into future year periods.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Yes thank you.
Hi Doug.
Hi.
I was interested in unmanned because now when you look forward and if you’re looking at some of the opportunities out there I’d love to hear how are you seeing them in now that includes Navy U-Class variance of the global product platform.
But what I am interested in is as you see unmanned aircraft industry mature do you see certain segments where you’re best positioned to compete perhaps others that may not suite you as well.
How do you look at this market going forward today? Well that we’re very excited about the opportunities in the future on unmanned.
It’s still a capability really an industry in its infancy in many respects.
The great success that unmanned has enjoyed in the past decade I think is testament to the potential but we’re really just at the very beginnings of that.
At global hawk clearly kind of set stage for where things can go from our perspective.
The ability to really see a large area and see it perceptively to deploy a variety of different censor capabilities and to the common integral part of the operational doctrine of how things get prosecuted.
And I think really helps at the stage and then building on that with the Triton program for the Navy the Triton program moving along very well which had some really good recent progress completing the initial flight test program and for looking forward getting into [RF] as we get into next year.
And then on top of that the success we’ve enjoyed with the UCAS-D program and lending an unmanned aircraft on the deck of an aircraft carrier all of those things I continue to see as real-stage setters for where this can go.
And go not just domestically but internationally as we talked about on some of our calls and at the conferences in the past we’re seeing a growing demand by our allies around the globe for this class of capability and we’re looking forward to supporting that particularly given the support for that outcome that we’re seeing from the United States government with DOD policy focusing substantially on making sure that our allies can have this class of capability and use it in a way that’s highly integrated with U.S.
operational doctrine.
So there is a good path forward here the exact timing of when particular opportunities rollout is a little bit hard to predict especially if we’re talking about international as it’s always a little bit of uncertainty and all the steps you’ve got to get through on the international side.
But clearly with Global Hawk and Triton we’re seeing great interest in those capabilities in Korea Japan Australia and other countries and we’ve got the NATO AGS program underway in NATO today and that’s moving ahead very nicely.
You mentioned the U-Class program there is a draft RFP that’s been released for comment that’s a program where there continues to be quite a bit of discussion in both the navy and at the OSV level about the mission and its requirement so a little early to call how that one is going to go quite yet.
But I think it’s just another indicator that this is an area an arena with a lot of dynamics and a lot of opportunities.
We tend to position ourselves more on the higher end of the capability and I think that serves us well in terms of being able to look ahead what our customers are going to need and invest in the near term to make sure those capabilities are going to be present for them.
There is a whole range of unmanned capability out there everything from what you might think of as remote controlled airplanes some people call those unmanned systems all the way to the high end of robotically flown aircraft which is really where our focus has been.
And quite frankly I think there will be some good opportunities across that spectrum of unmanned capability as we look into the future.
But we will tend to be focused more on the higher end of the capability.
And do you see it as a steady source of growth in revenue or is this something where we may have to wait a few years to really see it move? I think there are clearly some near term things that are moving ahead in terms of driving some growth.
I mentioned Triton going into LRIP that's an important part of the process for us.
I mentioned the international ones.
So I think it's it won't be every single quarter that we've got some great news but if I think if it on an annual basis over the next few years I'm continuing to be optimistic about the vector for this.
And clearly over the longer term if you take a (inaudible) look I think this will be transformative.
Okay.
Well thank you.
Thanks Doug.
And your next question comes from the line of Yair Reiner with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you.
So book-to-bill looks like it would have come in close to 1 had the E-2D contract signed in the second quarter.
How are things looking for the back half of the year? So book-to-bill at E-2D had been an earlier would have been closer to 1.5 fleet.
And I think E-2D is just another reminder that the long cycle businesses that we have such as AS and ES tend to get their awards in lumps.
And so we have to think about that over the longer period of time.
As well as international.
And Jim’s right international as well comes in lumps.
So we don't guide on awards to book-to-bill for the year so I won't give a projection for the second half.
I would just say we're pleased with how things are going.
Great.
And then if you could just rephrase or try an earlier question again about the budget trajectory.
I guess if you look at even the lower budget that's out there the sequestered budget looks like 2015 is a bottom.
Obviously there is a disconnect between when there is a budget authority and when there is an outlay.
But it seems that there is things that are bit different about the cycle there is little bit of noise from OCO and so forth.
Is there a reason to think that your DoD revenues are going to be substantially different than what we see in the budget authority?  Always hard to tell.
Again you made a point and the difference between budget authority and outlay.
Ultimately what this comes down to is the customers’ confidence and taking a longer term view that if they start meaningful program activities they're going to be able to get then done.
The last thing they want to do is get started and have a calamity on the budget side that creates great efficiency.
So there are tough decisions that our customers are going to need to make over the next couple of years as best they can given the haziness of the crystal ball right now.
And we'll see where that goes.
I continue to see our portfolio as very well aligned with strategic directions that our customers are moving and will need to move given what's going on around the globe whether it’s unmanned the work we do on a variety of manned aircraft systems the work that we do in C4ISR and Cyber as well as the work we’re doing in logistics and modernization; I am really pleased with how the portfolio is aligned for the longer-term but this business is trying to call a trough I think is time (inaudible) right now.
Okay thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much.
Hey Howard.
Good afternoon.
You’ve talked about changing your investment profile or I mean frankly it’s a portion of capital that you expect to have reasonable returns on going forward.
Could you elaborate on some of the decisions that went into building these new facilities and are there multiple solutions to having these facilities available to you and how is it proved your competitiveness wise? Yes thanks Howard.
Any time you make a decision to invest in a new facility you can have to test it against a variety of potential outcomes.
And Jim talked a little bit earlier about the scenario work that we do and that’s an important part of it.
The facilities that I mentioned in my remarks that ones in Florida in particular are locations where we not only have a great legacy of doing really good work they are also increasingly centers where we’re able to pull our teams together and really focus the benefit of having collocated teams to come up with new ideas and propel the current programs that we have underway.
So I would say that none of the facilities that I have mentioned so far are speculative facilities on some future opportunity.
These are activities and facilities and capabilities that will both benefit our ongoing business as well as positions incredibly well for some of the things that we see on the horizon.
There is a natural benefit and we’ve seen this time and again across the company a natural benefit of pulling together these steps of capabilities with people who can bring a wide variety of discipline to address some of these increasingly complex problems.
And if I look at for example what we're doing in Melbourne today and the manned aircraft design center of excellence that we're establishing there we've had a long-term just tremendous set of capabilities in Melbourne but we've had other capabilities that we have scattered around the country.
And this gives us an opportunity to pull some of those things together get that people together in a more focused manner to drive some different outcomes for us.
And I'm excited about what we already have going on there and what it will represent as we get that activity completed.
So just a follow-up not only does this sort of position you for some business future business opportunities it also may and I don't want to use the word lower cost but maybe improve productivity or enhance some other I mean that’s sort where you… Yes absolutely.
From an affordability perspective it is almost always more efficient to have teams collocated in facilities that we optimize the use of those facilities as opposed to widely distribute where we have sub-optimal utilization of multiple facilities.
So there is a really important affordability and competitiveness perspective that goes into this center of excellence architecture.
Jim could you? Yes.
Just our most valuable resource is our people.
Allowing our people to be collocated where they can share experiences across a wide range of programs is invaluable.
There is no way to really quantify the benefit that comes from being able to utilize the resources on a more effective basis across multiple programs rather than having dedicated to individual programs and then just the sharing of experiences and ideas that comes from being next to the person and seeing what they are working on and how they are approaching the problem.
So yes there is capital that’s going into facilitate the sharing of the resources but it really is how do we best utilize our people resources.
Just one last perspective on this Howard and I don’t want to beat it to death but as you know we are a company built of acquisitions.
And so there are -- have still over time been sort of the reminiscence of doing things in different locations that sort of came along to the acquisitions.
In some respect this is another sort of next natural step of really integrating the company in a tighter manner and standing back and looking operationally at how we are getting things done and asking ourselves the question is is that really optimal and in some cases it wasn’t.
So we are fixing that and we think we are going to get a really good benefit from that.
Maybe just to conclude I mean getting the money out of Jim I recognize probably was quite a challenge.
There must be a very -- there has to be a good hurdle here is what I'm…  Absolutely the discipline remains high.
Thank you.
Thanks Howard.
And your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Hello Myles.
Thanks good afternoon guys.
How are you?  Good.
Wes I was wondering if we could take a path down the cyber lane.
And I want to ask the question in a way of what are the enablers for you or any defense company to succeed in moving away from the national security tier of cyber security and more into the business or even the personal commercial tier of cyber security so more looking at it from the blockages that exist today and the potential for those blockages to be removed in the future that would open up markets for you or companies like you.
Let me give kind of a broad perspective on that.
First and foremost on the cyber side our expertise and focus continues to be on the national security side of it.
That's what we have been doing well for many many years.
And we see an incredible demand for that both in the U.S.
government as well as in the governments of a number of our allies around the world.
As you know that there is hardly a domain that is as boarder less as cyber.
So when it comes to thinking about the needs of both our country and that of our allies those needs really do spend in a very broad way.
So we see that as a very important dimension and really I would say focusing our efforts in that direction.
There are clearly concerns within our country around how this plays and broader realm; either we’re talking about the critical infrastructure or domains beyond that and I mentioned all the way to [bookings].
And we are obviously focused on how we can help in that regard.
We have a lot of work that we do with U.S.
government organizations particularly with the Department of Homeland Security that has principal responsibility for the critical infrastructure and the implications of cyber vulnerabilities to the critical infrastructure.
So we're channeling a lot of our energy and capability and to making sure we're supporting DHS as effectively as we possibly we can.
When it comes to more of the commercial side of this over time we like other companies in our industry take a look at how we might use some of our technologies to help beyond our core emission area.
In each of those areas our history as we tend to find the right partners and figure out what makes the most sense; we are typically not a company on the forefront of a commercial side of markets.
So we test that from time to time we look at it from time to time and spend a lot of time talking to others who are in that marketplace to see if there is an avenue which we can both be helpful to generate some value.
But I would just reinforce that our company is primarily focused on the business we're in.
And we see a big opportunity there.
And I want to be careful that we don't get too diluted in chasing things that really aren't up our rally.
That makes sense and I appreciate the color.
Thanks Wes.
Thank you Myles.
And your next question comes from the line of Rob Stallard with RBC Capital.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much.
Good afternoon.
Hi Rob.
Quick question on information systems; Wes you mentioned this is your -- probably your shortest cycle business.
I was wondering if you could give us an idea of what sort of trends you'll be seeing there in terms of better proposal activity and those bids actually being turned into awards.
Well it’s certainly our shortest cycle business.
It took the quickest if you will hit when the federal budget pressures came into play and we've seen that across the industry for similar businesses.
It continues to be extraordinarily competitive.
Our team in information systems is doing an absolutely great job of picking up the competitions that we want to go out and pursue and being successful on them.
We had a reasonable quarter in terms of awards in IS so..
Actually reasonable to six months.
Actually that’s right for the last six months has been quite good.
So I am very satisfied with how we’re positioned in that area.
It is a business that I see is very important to our company for the long-term not only in its capabilities in the cyber arena that we were just speaking about with miles but also broadly in C4ISR and the work that we do in that domain or all of those domains that are embedded in C4ISR.
IS is an absolute leader in our industry and those capabilities are core to what we do more broadly across the enterprise.
So we’re testing it out like everyone else in that side of the space but I am very very pleased with our competitiveness the portfolio of capabilities that we have in IS I think is strong in terms of the breadth of the support.
Like all of our businesses we continue to assess all the pieces of it and we look hard at where those are and how we see them for the long-term.
But on a relative basis I think IS is doing well.
In a dead environment they’ve performed very well.
They have.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Rob.
And your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Couple of questions so with the situation changing in the mid-East and Iraq and some of the other conflicts we have.
Is that have any impact either positive or negative on your international sales in the near-term and as you look forward? You know Cai I think its just a reminder that there is instability in our world and that both we in the U.S.
and our allies around the globe need to be capable of dealing with those things and does that translate into something in very near-term I really don't see that it's hard to tell.
Might there be some things that pop-up as a result of it? Yes potentially and we do stay in very very close contact with all of our customers around the globe to make sure that we are as responsive to as we possibly can be to their emerging needs and are looking forward for them and bringing ideas to them from a security perspective.
But I would characterize what we're seeing around the globe right now as more of as having more of an impact on the (inaudible) I'm thinking about use for a more capable and robust global security environment.
Okay.
And then switching to Aerospace your margins were down I guess your EACs were down some 58 million.
That is not excluding new potentials like long range striving new class.
It looks like your business is switching from development to more production E2D NATO AGM et cetera F-35.
Should we on an ongoing basis expect that EACs in our sector might be coming down as you've completed the development but then that as you move into production and as you get more form mix that maybe your inherent profitability would improve so the margins would be stable or maybe moving up excluding those two new programs I mentioned? That's great Cai.
I would agree with everything that you said that could be happening.
As we get as we transition from more of a development activities into production margins generally are improving adding more international content normally would improve margins as well.
But as the major new development opportunities ahead of us well.
Ultimately what happens with both the international opportunities and the new domestic development opportunities will influence what the overall aerospace margins are going to be on longer term basis.
And Cai I would add as I have said before I am delighted to have the downward pressure on our margin rates that results from taking on new development programs what that means we are being successful in competing for the new opportunities.
So that’s the way we are focusing as a team we see there is substantial opportunities out there and we intend to compete for them and hopefully are successful in a significant number of them.
Clearly you do.
But if we just think about the core business excluding those two to three programs is it fair to assume that the profitability should start to -- should improve ex- EACs as we move forward? Because you will have more production work and you will have more foreign work?  I don’t think you get ever to think about margins ex-adjustments adjustments are a normal part of the business they occur every quarter at every company even in production.
So you there are always risk and opportunities that a program is looking to manage and control and the nature of estimating cost over a multi-year period to which our airplane programs that we received today take about three years to perform on them.
So there are going to be risk and uncertainties opportunities associated with every single one of those contracts and in some cases we are going to do better than we thought and maybe in other cases not as well.
We are really working hard to make sure that our team understands first what are the risk and opportunities so that we can manage them to reduce the risk and harvest the opportunities.
But ultimately you're always going to have EAC adjustments.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Cai.
And your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hey Sam.
Hello.
I wanted to go back to a comment you made about the buyback during the initial remarks which is you went from down 8% to down 9%.
And it just seems like looking at where you are at the end of the quarter in the queue add back a lot of options if it just stayed there you would get pretty close to 9% for the year.
So I'm just trying to think about how you're thinking about buyback.
Because the second half cash flow is clearly much stronger than it was in the first half.
And why wouldn't the underlying share count be going down more than the 9% just given where you are year-to-date? Well recognize that we are talking about the weighted average shares outstanding for the entire year.
As you go through the year every month is worth less to that average for the year.
And compared to last year we were fairly heavy in our share repurchases in the second half of last year.
So that is a 9% reduction off of last year's average influenced by the timing of last year's share repurchases.
So at this point our ability to get substantially greater reduction in weighted average shares for this year is relatively small.
Okay.
That's fair.
And if I can just follow up on the E2D multi-year that was just signed.
When does that when does work on that contract start and is it the type of thing where you do get a margin degradation kind of going back to the question just before when you first start and then you have to work your way back up to a better margin?  Actual work has started on that multi-year contract and it will typically has a traditional U-shaped approach associated with it.
So start off small as we get into the more production and deliver aircraft again we're recognizing aircraft when recognizing revenue when aircraft are delivered here.
So the revenue recognition is going to be more back and loaded.
And we're estimating costs for a multi-year contract five years we're likely to start off at a somewhat conservative margin rate and then as we go through time and realize the opportunities and minimize the risk have the opportunity to step up margins.
Okay thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi John.
Hi thank you for taking my question and congrats to Steve on his extended responsibilities.
I wanted to talk a little bit about revenue.
It just seems like on a few of these segments aerospace ISPS you're tracking high versus the full year guidance.
You didn't revise the revenue guidance in those segments and I am just curious if there is any kind of specific puts and takes that would highlight that might be driving a sequential downtick?  The revenue is always influenced by timing of deliveries or on the cost to cost contracts by the timing of cost and cost is many times influenced by sub-contracted deliveries.
And so those kind of factors when are deliveries actually going to occur and we obviously have a schedule we can predict based on the schedule but we work hard to try to accelerate to the schedule and at times if we have supply issues or other issues we may slip the schedule for a few days and or a month weeks whatever.
We’re talking about multi-billion dollar products then it take too much to affect revenues.
And then just the cost cost as I said largely influenced again we have a pretty good sense of our cost of people people related cost timing of sub-contractor cost can have a significant impact on revenue on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Got it.
So you wouldn’t flag anything in particular driving… Not at all.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Hey Jasmine this is Steve.
I think we got time for one more.
And your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks guys.
Hi Joe.
Hi.
So Wes your backlog has been ticking down a little bit still but the rate of decline seems to have abated quite a bit over the last few quarters.
I was wondering if you felt the same way if you feel a little bit more a little better about the bookings environment more generally.
I know you’re not going to give a target you already answered that question you’re not going to start giving bookings guidance but maybe just some big picture color.
And then specifically you have an E2D that you already have in Q3 obviously the LRSB looking into next year what are the other big opportunities domestic and international if you look over the next 6 months to 12 months? Yes thanks Joe.
It’s one of those environments where well it’s tough it makes everybody focus a little bit more on competitiveness and I’ve been pleased with the competitiveness of our enterprise.
It's delightful to see that we're being successful on a wide variety of fronts and what we're taking on.
But as I said in my earlier comments I am a little bit reluctant to get out ahead of what we see going on in the budget cycle because there is just a lot of uncertainties there yet.
And it's important that we all be as clear as we can about the uncertainties that we see.
We do have a number of great opportunities in front us.
I spoke a little bit earlier in response to Doug’s question on unmanned about some of the international opportunities we see there on the unmanned side.
On international historically electronic systems has been our primary business with about 20% to 25% depending on the year the sales that ES being international and ES is doing very well and pursuing its international business.
And I think this year there will be some place around 25% on their sales internationally.
So kind of the new story for us on international is on the Aerospace Systems side of things both unmanned that I spoke about earlier as well as some opportunities on the manned side whether we're talking about our part of F-35 or the E-2D international opportunities.
So we're excited about that.
And I also mentioned a little bit earlier in response to Myles question on cyber that cyber also represents some interesting international opportunities for us.
So we do see international is continuing to be a growing part of our business this year as we've said before are up on international relative to where we were last year last year was around 10% income our sales and we expect to be about 13% this year on international.
Domestically clearly there are some big and meaningful opportunities out there one of the most important of which is long range strike.
But in addition to that at AS we are looking hard at the U-class opportunity that I talked about a little bit earlier.
And at ES there are a number of upcoming decisions where there is three dealer program that we may yet hear about this year or the (inaudible) program which looks to be on track for decision in the early part of next year.
Those represent great opportunities for us as well.
So there is a lot that we are out there pursuing but to be successful of that we have to continue to perform on our programs that we have today.
We have to continue to work on our competitiveness some of the investments that I talked earlier in response to Howard’s question our focus on that very thing making sure that we are going to be competitive for the future and can bring forward very affordable offerings for our customers.
So we continue to see a nice profile of opportunities out there.
Thanks.
Thank you Jeff.
Well this concludes the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Wes final comments?  Well thanks Steve.
As I said earlier the first half of the year has again demonstrated that our team’s focus on performance is enabling us to do well for our customer and for our shareholders.
So thanks everyone for joining us on the call today and thanks for your continuing interest in our company.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
My name is Katelyn and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Treasurer and Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Katelyn and welcome to Northrop Grumman's third quarter 2014 conference call.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of Federal Securities Laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainty which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
Matters discussed on today's call may also include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled in today's earnings release.
We will be posting an updated company overview that provides supplemental information on Northrop Grumman.
You can access our updated company overview and our sector overviews on the Investor Relations page at www.northropgrumman.com.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Jim Palmer our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
All right.
Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
Our teams focus on execution continues to deliver strong performance as demonstrated by this quarter’s earnings cash flows and backlog expansion.
Earnings per share increased 6% to $2.26.
In addition to strong operating performance we have two items that affected results in the quarter.
Third quarter EPS was reduced by $0.30 to reflect passage of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014.
We also realized $75 million for settlements of certain legal claims which increased EPS by $0.23.
Jim will provide more detail on these items later in the call but together they reduced third quarter earnings per share by $0.07.
Based on our year-to-date results we’re increasing our EPS guidance to a range of $9.40 to $9.50 from our prior range of $9.15 to $9.35.
This is an increase of approximately 13% over 2013 EPS.
We’re also increasing our 2014 sales guidance to approximately 23.8 billion the high end of our prior range.
Growth in our international business continues to partially offset the impact of domestic budget pressures.
Cash from operations totaled 933 million for the quarter.
Free cash flow totaled 824 million and we ended the quarter with a cash balance of approximately $3.4 billion.
Based on these results we remain comfortable with our free cash flow guidance of 1.7 billion to 2 billion for the year.
As you’re aware the fourth quarter is typically our strongest in terms of cash collections.
We’re particularly pleased to report that total backlog increased 8% from 35.6 billion at the end of the second quarter to 38.5 billion.
Book-to-bill for the quarter was 150% and book-to-bill for the nine months was 107%.
Third quarter bookings included a $3.6 billion contract for 25 E-2D Advanced Hawkeye aircraft which was the primary driver of the strong book-to-bill.
We also received a $354 million award for three additional Global Hawks and a $422 million contract for the sensor payloads for the fifth and sixth SBIR satellites.
We were recently awarded another 300 million for Global Hawk contractor logistic support.
Third quarter book-to-bill was 200% at Aerospace Systems reflecting the large E-2D award 122% at Electronic Systems 109% at Information Systems and 87% at Technical Services.
While we are encouraged by this quarter’s overall trend we’ve recognized that our customers are now working under a continuing resolution for fiscal year 2015 and sequestration can be triggered again in fiscal year 2016.
Turning to cash deployment we repurchased 6 million shares for 753 million bringing year-to-date repurchases to nearly 17 million at a cost of $2.1 billion.
Over the last six quarters we bought back 37.7 million share or more than 60% toward our goal of returning 60 million shares by the end of 2015 market conditions permitting.
We take a long-term view of the company’s value and continue to view share repurchases in combination with competitive dividend as an effective way to deploy our cash and to create shareholder value.
We continue to have a robust set of domestic and international opportunities across the company for our unmanned and manned platforms and in our C4ISR cyber and logistics and modernization domains.
Global Hawk and Triton have attractive strong international interest.
We’re currently negotiating a Global Hawk sale to Korea and the technical progress we’ve made on Triton including our second plane’s successful completion of its first flight bodes well for future international sales for that system.
In the international arena we expect significant growth in the F-35 program and the E-2D also has potential for international sales.
There are important domestic opportunities as well such as long-range strike and CIRCM.
When Congress returns after the elections and fiscal year 2015 budget negotiations resume we believe our programs will continue to be well supported.
In light of growing global security challenges it’s especially critical that our nation focuses on maintaining our technological leadership and our military superiority.
We would encourage Congress to find a way to avoid sequestration in fiscal year 2016.
Our Pentagon leadership must be able to strategically deploy its increasingly limited resources without the limitations of sequestration.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of our results and our guidance.
Jim? Thanks Wes and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My comments will cover this quarter’s results and I’ll also discuss our updated 2014 guidance and provide a first look at 2015 pension items.
But first I want to begin by expressing my appreciation to our team for their continued focus on execution.
As Wes mentioned our third quarter EPS of $2.26 included two items that collectively reduced EPS by $0.07.
Before these items third quarter EPS would have been $2.33 or 9% higher than last year’s third quarter due to strong operating performance and share repurchases.
But first on those two items was the passage of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act in August.
The Act extended higher discount rates instituted when the prior bill known as MAP-21 was originally passed in 2012.
The higher rates were retroactive to January 1 of this year and are a significant factor in determining CAS amortization pension expense.
The MAP-21 extension impacted third quarter results in two ways.
First we recognized $132 million year-to-date reduction in expected 2014 CAS pension expense which drove an $81 million decline in third quarter net FAS/CAS pension adjustment.
This is a cumulative amount representing nine months reduction in expected CAS expense.
The large change is driven by the improvement in the funding status of our pension plans on a CAS basis due to the higher discount rates.
Our largest plan essentially became fully funded with no 2014 CAS costs as a result of MAP-21 extension.
We don’t expect the situation will repeat itself in 2015 due to the expected increase in mortality assumptions.
Secondly the $132 million reduced CAS pension expenses charge to our contracts thereby increasing our segment operating margin rate by a rate of segment operating margin dollars by $37 million.
Second operating margin didn’t increase by the full 132 million reduction since we share cross savings with our customers on the majority of our contracts.
So only a portion of the savings flowed through to segment operating margin.
The net impact of these two items related to the MAP-21 extension was a $95 million pre-tax reduction to operating income and a $62 million decrease in net earnings or $0.30 per share reduction in EPS.
Also during the quarter we realized $75 million for settlements of certain legal claims related to the use of company’s intellectual property and a terminated program.
This benefited Aerospace Systems sales and operating income and improved third quarter earnings by $0.23 per share.
So turning to the sector results Aerospace Systems third quarter sales increased by 2%.
The increase was driven by the $75 million realized for the settlements.
Excluding the settlements AS sales were slightly lower for the quarter and reflect lower volume for manned military aircraft and comparable sales for our unmanned and space programs.
Manned military aircraft had lower volumes for programs like B-2 Joint STARS and the F/A-18.
Those declines were partially offset by higher sales for the E-2D program.
AS operating income increased 22% and operating margin rate rose to 15.8% principally due to the settlements.
AS also benefited from increased margins and lower CAS costs.
And excluding those two items AS margin rate would have been 12.7% for the quarter.
We now expect AS 2014 sales will reach approximately $10 billion essentially matching last year’s top line with an operating margin rate in the low 13% range versus our prior guidance of 12%.
Electronic Systems third quarter sales declined 2% due to lower deliveries for combat avionics and infrared countermeasures programs partially offset by increases in space marine and undersea programs.
ES operating income was comparable to the prior year and they experienced a 40 basis point improvement to operating margin rate to get to 15.8%.
The higher margin rate includes performance improvements as well as the benefit of additional margin resulting from lower CAS costs related to the MAP-21 extension.
For the year we expect ES sales of approximately $6.9 billion and we now expect an ES operating margin rate of approximately 16% for the year.
Information Systems third quarter sales declined by 7%.
Lower government funding levels and in-theater troop dropdowns continue to impact sales particularly for our command and control programs.
Operating income at IS declined in line with sales and IS continued very strong operating margin rate.
For the year we expect IS sales of approximately $6.2 billion at the high end of our prior guidance range for the margin rate in the high 9% range which is unchanged from our prior guidance.
Moving to Technical Services third quarter sales declined due to ramp-downs in the ICBM and Combined Tactical Training Range programs and was partially offset by higher international sales.
For the year we are now increasing sales guidance to approximately $2.8 billion for TS versus our prior guidance of $2.7 billion.
And we’re increasing our operating margin rate guidance to the low 9% range.
On a consolidated basis our third quarter segment operating margin rate was 14%.
But if I adjust sales and operating income for the settlements and the additional margin resulting from the lower CAS costs due to MAP-21 extension our third quarter segment operating margin rate would have been 12.3% which is consistent with the trends that we had in the first half of the year and comparable to that of last year.
Based on year-to-date results and our updated CAS expectations 2014 segment operating margin rate should be in the high 12% range and with higher segment operating income and our updated net FAS/CAS pension adjusted our total operating margin rate should be in the low 13% range.
We now expect a slightly lower tax rate of approximately 30.75% down from our prior estimate of 31.5%.
And finally I would also note that we continue to expect a 9% decline in our weighted average diluted share count for the year.
Turning to cash from operations we generated $933 million in the quarter and $1.1 billion year-to-date.
Free cash flow for the third quarter was $824 million.
And consistent with our historical pattern we anticipate strong cash flow in the fourth quarter.
Year-to-date capital spending increased by approximately $100 million and we continue to expect capital spending of approximately $600 million for the year.
As Wes said we are maintaining our guidance for cash from operations of $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion and for free cash flow at $1.7 billion to $2 billion despite the negative impact of the MAP-21 extension.
Before we begin Q&amp;A I want to update 2014 pension guidance and discuss 2015 pension and all of its elements; CAS FAS and cash.
So due to MAP-21 extension we now expect that our 2014 CAS pension expense will be approximately $380 million versus our prior estimate of approximately $560 million or a reduction of $180 million for the year.
This gives us then an updated estimate of our net FAS/CAS pension adjustment of $260 million versus our prior estimate of $440 million.
Looking ahead the extension of MAP-21 results in higher future CAS amortization discount rates which will likely impact our CAS pension expense for a number of years.
We estimate that the cumulative increase in CAS amortization discount rates will be about 100 basis points over the next couple of years.
You’ll recall then in our January conference call we expected CAS amortization would increase our CAS recoveries by $200 million to $225 million each year for 2015 and 2016.
Those estimates will now be impacted by both the higher discount rates in the MAP-21 extension as well as the expected update from mortality assumptions.
I’ll remind you though last quarter we said that beginning in 2015 we expect that the updated mortality assumptions will increase our FAS expense by approximately $50 million and CAS expense by approximately $40 million for every 100 basis point increase in our pension benefit liability.
We currently expect an increase in our pension liability of approximately 6% pending finalization of the society of actuary study later this year.
The CAS impacts from the higher discount rates and updated mortality assumptions will be largely offsetting over the next few years.
But as MAP-21 extension wears away over time the mortality impact will be the principal driver of future CAS expense.
So if I hold all other assumptions constant we would now expect our CAS expense to be approximately 700 million in 2015 and approximately 800 million in 2016.
Those estimates incorporate the higher CAS amortization discount rates updated mortality assumptions and the estimates of the resulting funding status of the plans under CAS.
These estimates compared with our prior estimates are approximately 750 million for 2015 and approximately 950 million in 2016.
Now I’m going to spend a few minutes discussing the impacts to FAS so by updating for the expected changes in mortality assumptions as well as for discount rates we would now expect FAS expense of approximately $550 million for 2015 and approximately $500 million for 2016 versus our prior estimates of approximately $100 million each for those years.
Those amounts assume a discount rate in the 4.25% range versus the 2014 current rate of 4.99%.
As I think many of you know rates have obviously been very volatile particularly recently and that assumption on interest rates will likely change based on where we are at year end.
Other than the change to mortality and year-end discount debt rate all other assumptions such as investment returns are held constant in those estimates.
I will point out that through the end of last week we estimate that our planned investment returns were approximately 7% versus our long-term rate of return assumption of 8%.
As all of you know we will further define our future year estimates on our year-end conference call when we have actual 2014 planned investment returns as well as year-end discount rates.
Just to remind everyone a 25 basis point change in our discount rate changes 2015 FAS pension expense by a net amount of $60 million and 100 basis point change in our actual planned investment returns compared to our 8% long-term rate of return assumption changes 2015 FAS pension expense by $45 million.
Lastly looking at cash impacts we don’t expect that the updated mortality assumptions or higher discount rates required to be used for CAS and for funding to impact our near-term funding requirements.
Over the next couple of years we continue to expect minimal required funding for our plans.
So Steve with that I think we’re ready for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Jim.
As a courtesy we ask each participant to limit themselves to a single one-part question so we can hopefully get through the queue.
Katelyn we’re ready for Q&amp;A (Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Thanks so much.
Good afternoon.
Hi Bob.
Thanks for the pension stuff Jim.
I know you love that.
All right.
On the cash front this might be a question [Wes] (ph) do the changes in the CAS recovery have any implication for your cash deployment plans going forward particularly on the buyback? No we don’t see any changes in our plans based on anything that we’re seeing in CAS at this point.
On the – sorry continue.
I would just point out that the numbers I just gave you for CAS recoveries compared to our prior estimates are up a few $100 million over a three-year period so not -- Yes not a lot of impact.
Yes.
And just to follow up on the cash front Wes are you seeing any change out there in the M&amp;A market given that we now have a bit of stability in the DoD base budget.
Are you starting to see more interest in Defense acquisitions? I would say that there continues to be a fair amount of interest in the technology side of the space just everyone wanting to make sure that collectively we’re thinking ahead and highly engaged on the technology end of it.
But do I see a big uptick relative to kind of where we’ve been for a bit of time? Not on the near horizon do I see that.
As always we continue to be active and taking a look at things that are out there.
I haven’t of late seen very much that really triggered us to be that engaged in it but we’re going to continue to look just as we always have.
We think it’s an important part of our overall strategic management process to be engaged in that aspect of development.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning.
Hi Doug.
Hi Doug.
Your Electronic Systems backlog has come up a lot I mean you’re above $10 billion there and that’s the highest that you’ve seen in quite some time.
Could you talk about what’s been driving that higher backlog and does that suggest to you some growth going forward over the next few years? Yes Doug you’re right.
I think we had an all-time high in our Electronic Systems backlog for our number of multiyear deals that affected the backlog as well as some of our marine programs.
As you know we had a multiyear deal on E-2D aerospace.
Electronic Systems also has some activities on that program.
So all of those are part of that impact to the backlog.
Doug it’s Wes.
I’d just add that across the board the business continues to do well with Electronics.
We have such a wider array of capability there that continues to be in demand both domestically and internationally.
You may recall that Electronic Systems has our biggest fraction of international sales running around 25% or so this year.
So it’s a fairly broad just outstanding performance by the team at ES.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good afternoon everyone.
Hi Noah.
Hi Noah.
How are you? Good.
How are you? All right.
Terrific.
Always good after you read off that much pension material.
Yes I live for it.
Wes you mentioned talking to those in Congress about the potential for more changes to sequestration.
Just big picture on that can you provide us a little bit more color on some of the conversations that are taking place on the hill and where do you see or how you see the actual likelihood of more changes to sequestration actually occurring? It seems like we kind of see in the press certain congressmen talking about the possibility of doing that but it doesn’t seem like there is anything particularly serious or certainly eminent.
Just wondering if you can give us a little more color on the latest there? Noah I sort of see both sides of it.
I clearly see a much better informed discussion on the hill around both near-term and long-term jeopardy that our national security is being placed under with this continuing pressure downwards on the Department of Defense and quite frankly other federal agencies that are being asked to do a heck of a lot more to deal with the variety of threats around the globe that are being asked to do that greater amount of scope if you will at a much reduced budget.
It simply doesn’t make any sense and I think there is a growing recognition of that dramatic imbalance that we have from a national security perspective.
Now whether or not that recognition translates into action depends on a lot of politics and I would not want to be in the mode of speculating on politics but I am encouraged by the growing thoughtfulness of the discussion the growing recognition and I think the genuine desire on the part of folks on both sides of the isle and both sides of Congress both houses of Congress to kind of step back and rethink this.
But again there are so much political dynamics associated with the budget these days that it would be difficult to put a stake in the ground and say yes this is going to change.
But I am encouraged by the improvement in the dialogue around this.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Good afternoon everyone.
Hi Jason.
Wes I was wondering if you could just spend a few minutes thinking about the operational tempo in the Middle East today.
It’s obviously increased here of late and maybe just describe to everybody here on the call the types of products and solutions and services that Northrop has on offer that might eventually get used in this new operational tempo that we have over there just so that we can begin thinking about impacts that this may have on Northrop if this ends up getting sustained higher level of operations over there? Thanks Jason.
Clearly our capabilities get deployed around the globe and are addressing a whole set of issues that are evident not just in the Middle East as you’re well aware.
But with respect to that particular theater some of the things that we’re well known for and support our customers with a very focused approach are things such as intelligence surveillance reconnaissance.
We deploy a wide variety of systems that help our customers understand what’s happening where it’s happening when it’s happening and do that with a very high degree of precision so the ISR part of our business is really an important part whether we’re talking the platforms that provide the presence to do it the sensors that provide the inherent system capacity on those platforms where they’re processing that sits behind the sensors whether it’s on the platform or to ground processing and quite frankly the sustainment of those systems.
So it’s a full company effort behind the ISR mission that’s so important to all of four structure to be able to have that perceptive understanding of what’s going on.
The other place we play a big role is on the command and control side.
Our work that we do both at our Information Systems business and in Aerospace Systems and in Electronic Systems plays an integral role in the command and control architectures that are deployed to help address this type of situations.
So I wouldn’t say that what we’re seeing right now in the Middle East represents a big uptick in any way for us I would not want to leave that impression.
But I would point out that our systems and capabilities are integral to the nation’s ability to go and conduct these types of activities and again not just in the Middle East but around the globe.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi Carter.
How are you? Great.
I just had a couple of questions around the margin.
Obviously the contract activity the order activity around several of these new big awards imply your changeover on several of these big programs.
I wonder if you could comment on the switchover to new contracts on some of those platform and what it might mean for the margin? And then just as a point of clarification Jim the CAS dynamics you outlined in the quarter related to the 37 million.
Are those just cumulative catch-ups that are retroactive or are the pension changes going to have some sort of offsetting benefit in next year’s segment margin rates? Thanks.
Let me take the second piece of that first.
The CAS benefit are essentially nine-month impact of lower CAS costs applied against the whole portfolio of contracts some of those contracts being cost types so the benefits flow entirely to the customer.
Some of them being fixed price incentive where we share in the benefits; others being fixed price where we capture the benefits.
There will be some small benefit that continues but largely be realized I think basically this year.
So there will be a small fourth quarter benefit as well that’s essentially covered in our guidance for the year.
But respect to the platform activities I would just say that each time we start out on a new contract we have a risk profile in front of us on execution and we recognize the retirement of that risk as it occurs over time.
So nothing unusual about the new contracts that we have in that regard but I think to the point Carter you were making because we have a number of these new activities and E-2D is a good example of that.
As we retire the risk either we succeed at retiring the risk or we fail to retire the risk over the course of the premium that will be reflected in the way that we booked the margins on the program.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hi Myles.
Just following up on that line of questioning though you’ve been running 12.3 here in the last couple of quarters.
We’re going to touch higher than that.
You’ve seen kind of a turn for the better in the backlog.
And I think one of the things you’ve talked about is you’d love to see the backlog grow and the top line start to show some signs of life but also be mindful that that might come with some margin pressure.
So as you look at '15 I mean is that the point where some of the flow-throughs of the new wins are going to start to put downward pressure on these margins that you’ve been able to drive so well? We won’t give any guidance right relating to '15 other than the pension outlook that Jim provided so I wouldn’t venture into being prescriptive about '15.
But I think the broader perspective is correct.
As we bring on additional programs there’s always a path if you will to the full margin opportunity.
The commentary I’ve made in the past relates though a bit more to our capture of development work as I think everyone on the call understands development programs generally carry a lower margin rate opportunity than do our production programs.
So the extent that our backlog reflects the capture of development activities that would tend to have more of a downward pressure on margin rates than when the backlog growth reflects the capture of additional production work.
Next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
It’s Chris on for Joe.
Hi Chris.
Hi guys.
Wanted to ask about the improvement in funded IS backlog.
This has been one of the businesses that has been under some pressure because of the short cycle.
Does that improvement signal that things are improving or at least that the pressure will start to decelerate? I would characterize it as good performance good competitive performance by the IS team.
I think it’s too early to call a turn in the shorter cycle side of the marketplace.
I think we’re going to have to see how the budget environment shapes up over the course of this year before we’re positioned to call that.
But we are very pleased with the backlog performance and capture performance of the IS team.
They’ve continued to make sure that we’re focused on the parts of the portfolio where we think we can really create value and are very focused on the competitive side of that.
So it’s good work by the IS team that you’re seeing here.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Good morning.
Hi George.
Hi.
How are you doing? Good.
Good.
Jim if I divide the 37 million by the 132 million you get about 28%.
So in a certain way does that give me some attempt at what your mix of business now is between fixed price cost plus and FPI? And going forward into next year would that mix substantially change much based on what you just said Wes? It seems like there might be more development next year.
George I remember back to the 10-K and I don’t think it’s the mix that’s changed much.
We’re a little bit more than 50% cost type maybe 52% 53%; 47 fixed price.
I don’t think it’s changed awful lot.
The other factor as you appreciate in terms of the flow-through of the 132 million June catch-up reduction in CAS expenses just a percentage completion of the various contracts that it applies to.
So I said to an earlier question there will be some smaller fourth quarter benefit and maybe some that leads over into 2015 as well but really not that significant in terms of the overall margin impact on a go-forward basis.
And to your question basically around the overall mix based on what I’ve seen so far in our planning process I don’t see a lot of change in the overall mix between development contracts and production contracts as we look forward here.
In particular I would just add because we see a good set of opportunities on both the production and on the development side if I look at our national opportunities many of those are more production-related if we’re selling a Global Hawk or a Triton or an E-2D overseas those would be additions to our production line.
Generally our domestic targets the new targets tend to have more development opportunity and I mentioned both long-range strike and some of the other things that we’re pursuing domestically would tend to have more of a development mix.
So in terms of the overall opportunity set I would align with what Jim said that we really don’t see much of a change in the mix of opportunities.
Of course it will depend on which ones we actually capture and turn into the sales [engineer] (ph) in the company.
Your next question is from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon David.
Hi David.
Jim can you talk about EACs in the quarter what they look like overall? I know you had the settlement (indiscernible) factoring but what do EACs look like in the quarter and maybe any color thinking about Q4 and into next year? Thanks.
Yes I think you all know but I think you are making too much out of these EAC adjustments.
The underlying margin rate is really the key factor here.
EAC adjustments were down in the quarter as I recall correctly from the Q that was filed this morning upper 30s low $40 million range on a year-over-year basis and quarter-over-quarter basis.
And we basically look at the underlying fundamentals of our various contracts when we do our planning process and not so much how we expect to come from the underlying performance of the contracts versus EAC adjustments.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Good morning.
Hi Rob.
Good afternoon I guess I should say.
Hi guys.
I wanted to talk a little bit about an aspect of Better Buying Power and the sense that we’re getting the DoD is now perhaps taking a deeper look at major subcontracts in addition to the primary prime contractor contracts.
And to what extent if any this has started to happen on F-35? My understanding is they’re really doing this with the largest programs so clearly that would be F-35 in your position there.
Are they getting involved in the negotiations and trying to help identify cost savings directly as you work with your customer? This is Wes.
I wouldn’t say that that was so much a reflection of what’s going on in Better Buying Power.
I think historically we’ve seen on very very large programs where there are subcontracts that are major fractions of the acquisition.
We’ve seen the government have a strong interest in understanding what’s going on and frequently the subcontractor works through the prime to support what the prime needs to get done with the government customer to provide greater insight into that larger fraction of the cost.
But all that said ultimately the subcontractor just that there are contractual agreements between the supplier and the prime and the government’s actions need to respect that and understand it.
And ultimately they are holding the prime contractor responsible for the outcomes.
So we are an industry that works very closely together to get things done.
It’s kind of one of – I think the very strong positive attributes of our industry that we’re able to partner so well while we also complete.
And part of that partnering process is to support whoever happens to be the prime on an individual contract support them enabling them to get done what they need to get done with the customer community.
So I don’t know that I would characterize it as a big departure clearly on something the size of F-35 where individual companies that are not the prime have a big role.
The government needs to understand what’s going on in great detail and the subcontractors need to support the prime and providing that type of insight.
But ultimately the relationship is between the subcontractor and the contractor and that has to be maintained.
Since you raised the question though about Better Buying Power I thought it might be helpful just to give a little bit of perspective on this.
Our industry has been very active in working with the Department and helping to provide feedback and help to shape the ongoing evolution of the Better Buying Power initiatives.
We’re now to Better Buying Power 3.0 and I think there’s a lot of good things that are coming out of this process.
And clearly the opportunity to work with the Department in helping to shape what’s going on and improving the acquisition process I think is something that we all welcome.
The focus that we’re seeing in Better Buying Power 3 around innovation and driving technology I think is very very much on point and necessary for where we need to be going as a country.
And as I’ve said earlier I think I speak for most folks in the industry.
We really appreciate the Department’s approach to working with us and shaping where these things go.
So I think there are a lot of positives here.
We have to of course make sure that the implementation of the policies that get put out really is in alignment with the intent and there have been some issues in that regard whether it’s in the appropriate use of different contract types or other aspects of it.
But I think in general this is a good architecture a good approach to trying to improve – continuously improve what’s going on in DoD acquisition and we’re supportive of what the Department’s working to do here.
(Operator Instructions).
Your next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
Thanks for getting me on I appreciate it.
Hi Hunter.
Hi.
How are you? A little bit of a schematic follow up to an earlier question I think relates to assets deployed in the Middle East right now.
I’m wondering if you can be a little more specific and tell us – you talked about ISR before about how Global Hawk is being utilized and whether or not DoD or Congress is taking note of its capabilities and whether or not you think this might provide a little bit of a catalyst to get some sensor work upgrades done on Block 30? And also maybe comment how the U-2 fits into this sort of puzzle that we have here? Thanks a lot.
Thanks Hunter.
I really can’t.
It wouldn’t be appropriate for me to comment on how specific systems are being deployed in an operational context.
I would just say broadly that as the world continues to get more challenging we see a constant increase in deployment of assets like Global Hawk and Global Hawk specifically around the globe.
The number of hours of operation continue to rise the cost per hour continues to fall the clarity that the commanders have around the benefits of that asset continues to improve.
So we see all the things pointed in the right direction for the broad support that the DoD has been providing for Global Hawk.
So we’re continuing to be very confident about its future and very supportive of what our customers are working to do to continue to enhance its operational utilizations.
So we see things as being on the right track there.
Your next question comes from the line of John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Thank you for taking my question.
Wes and Jim we’ve heard about international opportunities from both of you but I was hoping that perhaps we could put some numbers around it.
Could you just update us on where on an enterprise level basis international is as a percent of revenue now what it looks like as a percentage of the backlog and is a big opportunity if there’s anything you can tell us about where you think as a percent of revenue could go in the coming years as sort of a general trajectory I think that would be very helpful? John this is Jim.
As you know international has gone to about 13% of sales for 2014 up from 10% in 2013.
Backlog is about 14% at this point and obviously the backlog percentage is always influenced by the timing of these large international awards.
Both Wes and I have said a number of times we see some significant opportunities in the international marketplace for our capabilities.
They always take a long time to bring to fruition.
Projecting exactly when they’re going to occur is frapped with problem and I’m not going to get into that.
Jim I listed a few earlier maybe I can just reiterate some of that and perhaps add a little perspective.
With respect to what we have underway at Aerospace Systems as I mentioned in my earlier remarks we see opportunities for our Global Hawk Triton and E-2D and of course broadly around the company where we’re a participant on F-35 we see that growing.
In Electronic Systems we’ve been pleased to see how our SBIR radar program continues to perform well on schedule.
We see that as a very very competitive offering that we have in the marketplace and it’s generating a lot of interest around the globe.
So the SBIR radar is I think going to be a nice opportunity for a number of countries that are looking to upgrade their F-16 capability.
In Information Systems we have an extensive capability in cyber that a number of our allies are quite interested in figuring out how they work with the U.S.
and U.S.
government in taking their steps forward where we can helpful.
And I mentioned earlier the work that we do domestically in command and control out of Information Systems and there too we’re seeing an increasing interest around the globe in some of that capability to help deal with the growing complexity of the systems that many nations are acquiring now.
You have to be able to network these systems together and manage them as a more integrated approach to dealing with the battle space and that’s a real expertise that we have at IS that I see a nice international opportunity.
And with respect to TS we do a fair amount of sustainment work around the globe today and we see sustainment as a growing international opportunity for TS.
So every one of our four sectors has a set of meaningful opportunities as we look out over the next few years.
We generally have not been in the mode of trying to set goals as a percent of revenue.
I don’t see that as a necessarily productive thing to do.
We are looking at each of these opportunities to see whether or not they are value creating and whether or not we’re the right company to be pursuing them and we make our decisions on that basis.
So as we go forward given the breadth of opportunities clearly we’re looking at a growing international business but we’re not setting specific percent of revenue targets to describe that growth.
This is Steve.
I’d like to thank all of you for your interest.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session of the call and I would like to turn it over to Wes for final comments.
Thanks Steve.
I’ll just wrap up by reiterating how proud I am of the Northrop Grumman team’s continuing focus on driving performance for our customers and for our shareholders.
This was another good quarter for us and that good quarter resulted from the commitment and hard work of the great team that we’re fortunate to have here in our company.
So thanks again for joining us on the call today.
We appreciate your continuing interest in Northrop Grumman.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Fourth Quarter and Year End 2014 Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
My name is Katelyn and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Treasurer and Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Katelyn and welcome to Northrop Grumman's fourth quarter and year end 2014 conference call.
We’ve provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access at our website.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today’s call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor Provisions of Federal Securities Laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
Matters discussed on today’s call may also include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled in the supplemental PowerPoint presentation.
I would also like to note that in 2015 our earnings releases will be in the fourth week of the month following the quarter-end due to reporting conventions.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; Jim Palmer our CFO; and Ken Bedingfield our CFO Elect.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Steve.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before I begin my formal remarks today I want to note that this is Jim Palmer’s last conference call as Northrop Grumman's CFO.
On behalf of the Board; our leadership team and all of our employees I want to thank Jim for his many contributions since joining Northrop Grumman in 2007.
Jim has been an incredible partner in formulating our strategies; executing major strategic actions and driving the performance transformation.
This created so much value for our shareholders; our customers and our employees.
Jim has also ensured that we have the financial resources and flexibility to take advantage of our opportunities and on honor our commitments which has been particularly important during the challenging budget environment of the last few years.
But perhaps most importantly Jim has been a steadfast advocate of ensuring we think about the long-term strength of our company and industry as he has a deep conviction about the importance of what we do.
I want to personally thank Jim for his leadership; his dedication; and the energy and integrity he applies to everything he does.
After we file our 2014 10-K Ken Bedingfield will become Northrop Grumman’s CFO.
And Jim and Ken are working to ensure we have seamless transition over the next few months.
For those of you who haven’t met Ken prior to joining Northrop Grumman he spent 17 years at KPMG where he had roles of increasing responsibility.
And just prior to joining our team Ken was the national client leader of KPMG’s U.S.
aerospace and defense audit practice.
Here at Northrop Grumman Ken led financial reporting and compliance as our Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
He also served as the Chief Financial Officer of Aerospace Systems our largest sector.
Most recently Ken has served as Vice President Finance with all of our sector CFOs reporting to him.
In these roles Ken has also been a leader in executing our strategy of performance; portfolio alignment and cash deployment.
And as CFO he will play a more prominent role executing the same strategy going forward.
So congratulations to both Jim and Ken.
Now I’d like to discuss our 2014 financial results and our 2015 guidance.
2014 was another year of outstanding performance.
And I want to congratulate the entire Northrop Grumman team on a job well done.
Our focus on performance; cash generation and effective cash deployment produced strong results and shareholder value creation.
We ended the year with sales of nearly $24 billion.
While customer funding constraints continued to pressure our shorter cycle businesses our longer cycle businesses were stable; and international sales growth helped to partially offset domestic funding challenges.
In 2014 international sales increased 20% to approximately $3 billion or 13% of 2014 revenue.
International sales grew at all four of our sectors.
2014 earnings per share increased 17% to $9.75.
And on a pension adjusted basis earnings per share grew more than 13%.
Our businesses continued to perform growing segment operating income and expanding segment operating margin rate by 40 basis points to 12.9%.
We ended the year with a total backlog of $38.2 billion a 3% increase over year-end 2013 total backlog.
2014 new awards totaled $25 billion.
We are starting to capture major opportunities in our international businesses.
And at year-end these awards represented 14% of backlog.
We expect international revenue to grow to approximately 15% of sales in 2015 as our footprint continues to expand and demand grows for our unmanned and manned aircraft; electronics; cyber; sustainment and other offerings.
In addition to the Republic of Korea’s contract for four Global Hawks Japan has type selected Global Hawk to fulfill its high-altitude ISR mission and has also type selected our E-2D Advanced Hawkeye for its future advanced early warning and battle management mission.
And shortly after the end of the year Saudi Arabia awarded one of our joint ventures reported in technical services a $900 million contract to the Ministry of National Guard training support.
In addition Information Systems was competitively awarded a seven-year IDIQ contract by the UK government to develop and deliver cyber security solutions in support of data security and information assurance.
Cash generation and capital deployment are key elements of our strategy.
In 2014 our operations generated $2.6 billion and after capital spending free cash flow totaled more than $2 billion.
We returned $3.2 billion to our shareholders or nearly 160% of free cash flow.
We repurchased 21.4 million shares for approximately $2.7 billion which reduced our weighted average share count by 9%.
And through the end of 2014 we have repurchased 42.2 million shares or approximately 70% toward our goal of repairing 60 million shares by the end of 2015 market conditions permitting.
During the fourth quarter our Board approved a new $3 billion authorization to support share repurchases including the completion of the 60 million share reduction.
At the end of 2014 a total of $3.4 billion remained on our share repurchase authorizations.
We paid shareholders $563 million in dividends in 2014 and increased our dividend by 15% last May.
Over the last five years our annual dividend per share has grown 60%.
While we returned substantial amounts of cash to our shareholders in 2014 we also continued to invest in our businesses.
Capital spending increased more than 50% to $561 million and research and development investments increased more than 12% to $569 million.
Our strategy of focusing on performance; portfolio and cash is working.
We’ve created a portfolio centered on our key capability of names of unmanned and manned aircraft C4ISR; cyber; logistics and modernization.
Our strategy has resulted in a high performing portfolio that’s well aligned with the current and emerging technologies and capabilities that we believe will be of highest priority for future global security.
Simultaneously we have improved our affordability through both cost reductions and innovation.
Both efforts are necessary to truly achieve affordability for our customers.
As we look ahead congress passed a fiscal year 2015 appropriations bill that provides a degree of certainty for our customers but it also represents the seventh year of continuously declining budgets.
In addition the debt ceiling limits still needs to be addressed and a potential sequestration could be triggered for fiscal year 2016.
All of these factors will continue to influence our customer spending decisions during the coming months.
Turning to guidance for 2015 we expect sales of $23.4 billion to $23.8 billion with earnings per share of $9.20 to $9.50; cash from operations of $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion and free cash flow of $1.7 billion to $2 billion.
Jim will provide more detail on our guidance but we expect continued pressure on our shorter cycle businesses which will be partially offset by growing international sales.
In conclusion our 2014 results represent another year of strong performance.
In 2015 our priorities are unchanged: Drive strong sustainable performance; generate cash; and effectively deploy that cash; and continue to optimize our portfolio to ensure our alignment with global security priorities.
We have a solid track record that demonstrates that we can do this successfully.
And we look forward to continued long-term sustainable value creation.
So now I’ll turn the call over to Jim for a more detailed discussion of results and guidance.
Jim? Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
I want to add my congratulations to our team on their continued outstanding performance.
And Wes I want to personally thank you for your kind comments I truly appreciate them.
I certainly enjoyed being part of a company of outstanding people who are fulfilling missions of the highest importance to our nation and our allies.
I feel proud to have been part of a team that’s accomplished so much.
Today I’ll briefly just review 2014 results and then discuss 2015 guidance.
Beginning with performance 2014 segment operating margin rate improved 40 basis points to 12.9%.
About 20 basis points of that improvement resulted from the $75 million in settlements at Aerospace Systems that we recorded in the third quarter.
Excluding the settlements from both consolidated sales and segment operating income our 2014 segment operating margin rate would have been 12.7% versus 12.5% in 2013.
The year-over-year improvement reflects better operating margin performance at three of our four sectors.
Aerospace Systems was the largest contributor to this year’s margin rate improvement where part of the improvement being the previously mentioned settlements.
So in adjusting AS sales and operating income for the settlements would give them a 12.5% operating margin rate for the year still a 40 basis-point increase over 2013 due to improved performance.
Information Systems and Technical Services continued the strong performance with margin rate improvements of 20 basis points and 10 basis points respectively.
Electronic Systems while down versus 2013 posted a very strong 16.5% margin rate.
Total operating margin rate for 2014 13.3% 60 basis points higher than last year principally due to more favorable net FAS/CAS pension adjustment and higher segment operating income.
These positive trends were partially offset by $15 million increase to a more normal level of unallocated corporate expenses.
You’ll recall that our 2013 unallocated expenses were unusually low due to lower provisions for disallowed costs and litigation matters as well as a favorable settlement of overhead claims.
On a pension adjusted basis our operating margin rate increased to 12.2% a new record for the company.
You also saw on our press release that in the fourth quarter we recognized a full year 2014 R&amp;D tax credit at $38 million through the extension of tax benefits at year-end.
Turning to cash 2014 was another good year both in absolute dollars and on a per share basis.
Free cash flow totaled $2 billion and we returned more than $3.2 billion by $15 per share to our shareholders.
In 2014 total shareholder return was 31.4%.
So it was another very good year both in terms of performance and value creation for our shareholders.
Now let’s spend a couple of minutes and discuss our 2015 guidance beginning with sector sales and OM rates.
For 2015 we expect AS sales to range between $9.8 billion and $10 billion with a margin rate in high 11% range.
Sales guidance reflects more volume for manned aircraft and space programs partially offset by growth in unmanned programs.
And manned aircraft we expect more volume for the F/A-18 and Joint STARS which will be partially offset by ramp ups in E-2D and F-35.
In space we expect more volume for the Advanced EHF and for The James Webb Space Telescope.
And then turning to unmanned we expect double-digit growth in our high-altitude long endurance business which includes programs such Global Hawk Triton and NATO AGS to partially offset declines in other businesses.
For Electronic Systems we expect 2015 revenue of $6.7 billion to $6.9 billion and our sales guidance includes some lingering impacts from force reductions but partially offset by expected growth in international sales.
We expect EXPENSES operating margin rate in the low to 15% range although lower than 2014 still very healthy and indicator of continued strong performance.
We expect Information Systems sales in the range of $5.9 billion to $6.1 billion a low to mid single digit compared to a 6% decline so thus a moderation in the rate of decline.
The sales decrease primarily reflects reduced volume in command and control; ISR and civil programs due to program completions and transitions as well as continued force reductions.
Higher volume on F-35 and growth within our international portfolio should partially offset those impacts.
Our outlook for IS continues to reflect the pressure on the shorter cycle businesses due to lower funding levels and budget uncertainty.
As Wes said the budget process is little bit better at this point but our customers are still facing the potential sequestration in fiscal 2016.
And we expect that situation will continue to influence customer behavior in our shorter cycle businesses particularly as we approach the end of the government’s fiscal year.
Despite the top-line pressures and continued investment in our international business opportunities we expect IS to maintain a mid to high 9% operating margin rate in 2015.
Moving to Technical Services our expectation for 2015 sales is $2.7 billion to $2.8 billion with a margin rate of approximately 9%.
The sales outlook TS reflects lower revenue ICBM Hunter and Combined Tactical Training Range programs with growth at international programs expected offset some of the decline in these other programs.
So on a consolidated basis we expect 2015 segment operating margin rate will be about 12% and we expect our total operating margin rate will be in the mid 12% range.
Turning to Pension on the third quarter call I mentioned and I discussed the potential impact of variable such as the updated mortality assumptions and lower discount rates on our expectations for the 2015 FAS/CAS pension adjustment.
And at that time we estimated that our 2015 net FAS/CAS adjustment would be income of about $150 million.
Now that we have filed data we are increasing our 2015 net FAS/CAS pension adjustment to income of $290 million or an increase of $20 million from 2014 levels.
This reflects 2015 CAS expense of approximately $675 million and FAS expense of $385 million.
Our 2015 estimates reflect adoption of updated mortality assumptions actual 2014 planned asset returns of about 9.75% net of expenses and 8% long-term rate of return on planned assets and a discount rate of 4.12% versus last year’s discount rate of 4.99% at the end of the year.
When we file our 10-K you’ll see that our projected pension obligations have increased by approximately $4.5 billion to $30.5 billion with the increase being largely result of the decrease in the year-end discount rate and then to somewhat lesser extent to the updated mortality assumptions.
On a longer term basis for 2016 and 2017 we currently expect CAS expense of approximately $765 million and $840 million respectively while FAS expense is currently expected to be $315 million and $240 million for 2016 and 2017 respectively.
And for your modeling purposes a 25 basis-point change in the discount rate results in a net $65 million change in 2016 FAS expense likewise 100 basis-point change in plan asset returns versus the assumed rate of 8% results in a $50 million change in 2016 FAS expense.
In the aggregate on a GAAP basis the funding status of our plans was 82% at the end of ‘14 reflecting the impact of the lower discount rate and the updated mortality assumptions.
Our qualified plans are 86% funded and our required contributions remain minimal about $75 million in 2015 and for the next several years.
I would note however that we are continually evaluating whether to make additional voluntary plan contributions based on their potential economic benefits.
Turning to taxes we expect the tax rate of approximately 32.5% of 2015 which does not include an R&amp;D tax credit extension or potential benefit of possible resolution of IRS exam issues for the tax years 2007 through 2011.
Our 2015 earnings per share guidance of $9.20 to $9.50 contemplates 8% reduction in weighted average shares outstanding to approximately 195 million shares.
We expect cash from operations before discretionary pension contributions will range between $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion and free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions is expected to range between $1.7 billion and $2 billion.
Our free cash flow guidance anticipates capital spending of about $700 million in 2015.
We spent slightly less in 2014 than our planned capital expenditures of $600 million.
And frankly I would expect that that under-spent amount will be made up in 2015 along with some other increases.
Regarding cash trends in ‘15 versus ‘14 we do expect an increase of about $300 million in cash -- in CAS collections in 2015.
On an after tax basis that is about $200 million of increased cash flow.
However there are two other major factors that will reduce 2015 cash flow when compared to 2014.
First 2014 had three unusual items that at this point are not expected to repeat in 2015.
They are the $75 million of settlements; the IRS partial resolution of tax years 2007 through 2009 and the R&amp;D tax credit extension.
Together those three items represent $125 million reduction in this year’s 2015 after tax cash flow when compared to 2014.
Finally in 2015 our biweekly payroll cycle results in 27 pay periods rather than a normal 26 another $125 million reduction in cash flow versus 2014.
Our guidance reflects another year of strong operating performance and strong cash generation supportive of continued investment in our business and distribution of cash to our shareholders.
So that concludes my comments on 2014 performance and 2015 guidance.
But before we begin Q&amp;A I’d like to spend a few minutes and introduce Ken Bedingfield our CFO Elect and add just a few thoughts.
Obviously Ken and I have worked closely together in his role as Corporate Controller and as the Operating CFO at Aerospace Systems.
After seeing him in those roles I’m confident that Ken has the skills and qualifications to lead our financial organization.
He’s earned the trust and confidence of our management team and I’m pleased to be succeeded by such an outstanding individual.
So Ken over to you.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everybody.
I’d like to add my thanks to the team for another job well done.
Over the last several months I’ve had the opportunity to meet a number of you and I look forward to meeting more in the coming months.
Wes Jim and I share similar philosophies particularly on sustainable performance and cash deployment.
We have worked closely together over the last several years.
I’m looking forward to assuming the CFO role after we file our 10-K which should be next week.
I’d like to thank Jim for his leadership and guidance.
He’s been a great mentor.
And I’m confident that our continued transition over the next few months will be seamless.
I look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter conference call.
Let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Ken.
As we open up the call for Q&amp;A I would ask each participant limit themselves to a single question.
With that Katelyn we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Cai with Cowen &amp; Company.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
And Jim congratulations on a job well done.
Thank you Kai.
Wes you mentioned your R&amp;D up 12% last year where do you see it going in 2015? And if you could give us a little bit of color in terms of by divisions where you’re spending it and what the net impact on your earnings might be? Thanks.
Thanks Cai it’s really important question about how we are thinking about R&amp;D.
We don’t guide with specific numbers for each year on what they are we do repeat them at the end of each year.
But I will just say that as we think about our role in the broader global security community our role is to bring technology for you and bring the types of solutions that are based on technological superiority that enables our nation and those of our allies to get the jobs done.
So technology has always been a core part of what we do.
And through this downturn cycle we’ve held our R&amp;D as a percentage of sales up through the cycle.
And I see us continuing to emphasize this and grow it over time.
And this goes across all of our businesses by the way.
As you might imagine some of our businesses are little bit more technologically intensive than others and so it’s not exactly the same percentage in each year.
Every single one of them has a strong technological underpinning.
And that span of technology encompasses not only the things that we’re working on in terms of near term developments to bring in the products but also the very early stage technologies.
Things that aren’t going to pay off for our company or for our customers for many many years we see that as just an absolutely integral and critical part of our R&amp;D strategy.
Not every one of those investments turns out that we can turn it into something but we believe that’s a key part of being in the technology space.
We’re going to try some things that don’t always work out and some of them work out astoundingly well.
So we are going to continue that on our path forward.
I’ve mentioned several times in past calls about half of our population about half of our 65 000 folks are degreed scientists engineers mathematicians technologists of some kind.
So there is just an amazing amount of creative capacity in this organization.
And our ability to get good returns on our technology investments is really because of the hard work and dedication and creativity of that great team.
Your next question comes from Joe with J.P.
Morgan.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Congrats to Jim and Ken both.
Thanks.
My question is just as we look at the margin guidance for Aerospace and for Electronic Systems and you guys have done a pretty good job over the last several years of guiding a lower and beating.
I was just trying to get some context here on whether -- how much upside there might be if you’re able to maintain your -- to what degree you might be able to maintain the margins you’ve been running at the last couple of years.
So maybe the question would be how much of the margin degradation is due to mix and how much of the expected margin degradation is due to lower adjustments? Joe this is Jim.
We don’t really plan for adjustments; we plan for marginal rates associated with each of our businesses looking at backlogs and margins inherent in the backlog as well as where we think the business will perform.
When I think about our Electronic Systems business 16.5% margin this year and guidance for next year still is very good performance.
Relative to the industry peers frankly we’ve had in Electronic Systems a group of mature production programs that are nearing completion being replaced by younger development programs and/or younger production programs.
So we’re going through a little bit of a shift from some mature programs to some less mature programs.
But that’s kind of the normal cycle.
At Aerospace again the $75 million benefit that’s in margins in Aerospace this year will not at least the -- reason why it’s going to be here next year.
So that’s a big part of a change in margins in Aerospace.
But again high 11% margin is really good performance.
We had a little change over the last couple of years in our fixed price business mix change but it’s not been that significant probably up a couple of percentage points on a year-over-year basis.
So we continue to have significant development activities in each of our businesses which actually is life bud of our future.
Yes.
And Jim I’ll just add to that because Joe had good comment about mix.
And I think that’s a really important perspective just to reiterate something that we’ve all said a number of times over the past couple of years.
As we go forward we do expect there to be a number of good development activities.
And I’m okay with our margin rates coming down a little bit based on our successful cascade of new development activities.
I’m not okay with margin rates coming down.
If there are performance issues we went through an era as a company where we had a series of performance issues and worked hard and get passed that.
So our focus is go out get those really good development opportunities that should create great value for our shareholders over time.
If we need to have a little bit lower margin rate because of that mix shift over time that’s fine but we’re going to keep performing.
And that’s really going to be the focus across the enterprise is whatever go at and capture we’re going to execute well.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard with Jefferies.
Thank you very much.
Mr.
Palmer you have set a high bar.
He has.
Now I’d add it’s actually been a pleasure to work with you.
Thank you Howard I really appreciate the comment.
You spent $700 million in capital which is large relative to normal standards.
Could you elaborate a little bit on where it’s going and how fast you think you might be able to see some payoff from it Wes? Yes hi.
And I’ll ask Jim to give a little bit more of a color on it.
But it goes actually back Howard to what we were just talking about as we have -- look at our future.
We have made some decisions to structurally get aligned a bit better.
And we announced a little bit of time ago our focus on moving into centers of excellence.
That requires a bit of capital to actually get those stood up and operating the right way.
And as we get those facilities in place we look forward to having a number of all of you from the investment community come and take a look at these new centers.
So that’s a part of it.
Other parts of it go fundamentally to supporting the program opportunities that we’ve captured or that we see on the horizon.
We’re investing in the company because we see a good opportunity for return here.
Jim is there any more detail on that? Just echo your comments centers of excellence and program opportunities are really the drivers of capital investment.
And frankly last year we said that capital expenditures were going to be high for a few years and we basically implemented what we said we were going to do.
Yes.
And I’ll just point out as well that when we talk about centers of excellence sometimes that sounds like company consolidation.
And yes perhaps that 50 000 foot level that’s where it is.
But ultimately it’s a key part of our strategy to drive both affordability and innovation in the organization.
We’re finding that as we do a better job of integrating some of the activities that have been geographically separated that we’re getting a lot of very positive energy that is going not only into the programs but are being executed but also the development of new opportunities.
So that’s a big part on the innovation side.
And of course on the affordability side consolidating our footprint has been a process that we’ve been underway now for several years.
And that’s already paying off of course.
And we expect to see good returns on that as we go forward.
So overall my point is that capital investment has a lot of different strands that run through affordability innovation and supporting our programs across the board.
And we’re delighted to be able to have those kind of opportunities to invest where we see those returns.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug with Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you.
Hey Doug.
Hey Jim.
And really it’s been just great working with you.
So I wanted to wish you all the best going forward.
It’s been great great several years here.
That’s a mutual feeling that’s shared.
Yes.
Anyway so good luck.
Thanks.
I need it.
I don’t think so.
But I’ve got a question here nonetheless on the short cycle businesses Information Systems and Tech Services.
When you look at the backlogs you’re looking at 10% decline in Information Systems backlog and even more in Tech Services yet your guidance for revenues is down a little in each.
And I’m assuming if that KC-10 and ICBM supported Tech Services.
But it was surprising to me to see your revenue expectations hold up reasonably well considering what appears to be a lot of pressure on backlog here.
Doug you hit on a couple of the items.
Clearly right after the end of the year we booked $900 million award in Technical Services piece of the business.
And those touch and go whether that would have gone be in the end of the year the first of 2015.
And basically we didn’t rush the deal we made sure that we got a deal that made sense and so that’s locked over in 2015 so be it.
When we look at the shorter cycle business Information Systems it’s interesting that only about little over half of the revenues actually come out of funded backlog for the year.
That is a shorter cycle business a big part of the business moves from unfunded backlog to funded backlog as we go through the year.
Said differently the customer tends to fund this in a number of months increments rather than a full annual year basis.
And so we tend to see that kind of cycle move through there as well as just being a shorter cycle business.
So new awards have more of immediate impact on revenues in the current year.
So its’ a combination of all those kinds of things and frankly some expectations for international opportunities as well that went into our revenue guidance for both of those businesses.
And I would just add a little bit.
The science of backlog conversion to revenues in the following year is an interesting area of study.
We all know that in our long cycle business it often takes a while before that backlog converts to sales and that’s what we mean by long cycle.
And obviously in short cycle we know that there is a lot more volatility in that conversion.
And I think if you think about these vectors backlog and revenue it’s probably easy to conclude that the direction of the vectors is more often aligned than it is to conclude that the magnitude of the vectors is aligned and correlated.
And if you look back over just the last few years in IS we have seen some years of notable declines in backlog where the revenues in the following year were directionally the same it was down but the magnitude was a lot different.
And that goes back to what Jim was saying it’s due to the nature of these short cycle businesses that sometimes we’re seeing more revenue from the awards that are captured in the year of performance.
So when we do our look forward and give our guidance we really do look at the whole pipeline it’s not just the back -- we just look at the backlog it is a perspective that encompasses what we see in front of us in the current year and how we see that translating into revenue.
So of course our 2015 guidance does contemplate what that current backlog position looks like but I would say more importantly it contemplates what we see from a pipeline perspective and a position perspective.
Your next question is from the line of Carter with Barclays.
Good morning guys or I guess I should say good afternoon.
And again let me add to the congratulations Jim on all of your success.
Thank you Carter.
I want to go back to one of the earlier questions on research and development.
And at least from a high level or just directional I know you don’t disclose the number Wes as you said but several of your peers so far this quarter and this year have talked about greater amounts of internal research and development impacting their margin outlooks.
And I wondered if you might speak at least directionally is that something that’s influencing your P&amp;L this year or potentially in future years or should we see a relatively stable amount of that investment? It’s not a big factor this year.
Clearly it varies from year to year depending on the mix on fixed price cost plus and you can play the math through on that.
But I don’t see it as a differentially big issue this year relative to prior years.
I don’t want to put a stake in the sand on future years.
Obviously we need a strategic flexibility to decide how we manage that based on the environment.
But as I said earlier it’s going to continue to be really really importantly to us.
It’s the life bud of our enterprise.
So we’re going to make sure we are managing it the right way.
Jim do you have any other to add to that? I’d just add Wes that -- Carter we manage all cost and that’s just one element of cost.
And so to the extent that we choose spend more money on R&amp;D or IRAD essentially we’re trying to find other ways that we can reduce other cost so that we keep our total cost structure in line with what was anticipated when we bid these contracts.
So it’s always a little bit of push and pull between how much for this and how much for that.
But then choosing to spend more on IRAD or research and development we’re cautiously working to reduce other cost to give us the flexibility to absorb that increased IRAD investment within our total cost structure.
Yes.
And that’s actually important point.
If you look at how we’ve done that over the last few years if you think about it and Jim and Steve will correct me if I get these numbers slightly wrong.
But over the last five years our top-line is down around 13% but our headcount is down around 20% - 21%; our footprint is down around 10%.
Correct.
So we’ve gone after a whole set of cost structure issues that have enabled us to maintain our R&amp;D investment.
And as we said earlier we’ve done it because that’s what we do.
That’s the essence of our enterprise to be able to bring technologically based solutions to our customer community.
And I certainly anticipate we’ll be doing that on a go forward basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Noah.
How are you? Good good.
How are you Wes? Good.
Jim congratulations.
That was a fairly impressive run you put up there.
It sounded like you might have been tearing up a little on your prepared remarks actually.
Actually I have a pretty bad cough and I had cough drop in my mouth and… It’s good that you had a planned excuse for windup.
I was tearing [ph] up Noah.
So a little bit bigger picture question.
If I look at the past many years call it 20 years of the company it’s grown double digits organically very few times.
And it’s a mature steady business so that makes sense.
Looking forward if you’re able to secure some of the larger wins you’re going after and if the defense budget can actually grow a little for you should it be in our collective scenario analysis that we could actually move into one of those periods where between now and the end of the decade you can actually put up one or two years where you actually grow double digits? And I’m not asking you to commit to that obviously but with that kind of the order of magnitude type of math we’re dealing with given the size of some of the stuff you’re going after? Noah I would say that there are some factors that drive that probably well beyond our control.
Clearly the global security environment is the most prominent driver of how that works out.
And we all know we’re dealing with a road us today that has so much volatility in that regard that any one thing in that basket of volatility could push our nation and our allies into a very different place of security spending.
So trying to predict that and get out ahead of that is difficult but we want to make sure we’re always ready in the event that we’re called upon to respond to that sort of outcome that we’re ready to do it.
So that’s one aspect of it.
The other aspect of it I just want to be very clear about because I know many folks listen to these call including some of our employees.
And we are not an enterprise that’s being driven by visions of the top-line.
We drive our enterprise based on value creation.
And if we put our head stood and said [indiscernible] we’re going to figure out one way or another to get a double-digit and top-line yes we could probably go figure how to do it and then perhaps regret it a few years later.
We’re going to continue to drive this enterprise on value creation.
So even in a case where there maybe extraordinary opportunities in front of us we’re not going to get mesmerized top-line mathematics.
We’re going to continue to make case by case decisions on what makes sense and how we create value.
So those two things I think are important to have in your mind if you think about our company.
We’re going to be value driven and we’re going to be ready to support our customer community no matter what they face.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert with RBC Capital.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning Robert.
Good afternoon.
Jim I’d add my congratulations and thanks for your help with pension over the years.
I’ve often said Jim is able to provide a PhD thesis on pensionology.
I’ll avoid that topic this time.
You mentioned that if everything goes to plan that your share buyback plan should be concluded this year.
And I was wondering what we could expect after that because you made several comments this morning and this afternoon about more internal investment so really that alters your capital deployment program for the longer term.
Well I would say Rob we’re first and foremost focused on achieving the objective that we laid out for ourselves when we announced our plan in the middle of 2013 the retirement of 60 million shares.
So we’ve got a full year ahead of us.
And that’s really our focus to make sure that we do that in a way that’s thoughtful and in a way that creates good value for our shareholders.
Beyond that I really can’t say anything that would provide too much commitment but what I can say is if you look back at what we’ve been doing for a long time we’re fairly predictable crowd.
We obviously prefer to put every dollar we can inside the business to generate long-term returns.
And you’re seeing us do a bit of an increase in that regard because we see opportunities against which we can match those investments.
But in aggregate we’ve been a very healthy returner of cash to shareholders.
And we think that strategy has worked well for us.
We of course always continue to evaluate that to make sure that we’re making the best decisions on behalf of our shareholders for how we deploy that cash.
But as I said earlier you can tell how we think by looking at our track record.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles with Deutsche Bank.
Good afternoon.
And Jim Congratulations.
I hope you could take more time often the CFO your place when you showed up back in 2007.
He was certainly a better CFO than the one he replaced in 2007.
The question I had was on international sales and obviously great growth you’re having.
And then just to turn the question around the domestic sales slide to 4% or 5% is really an opportunity once that bottoms out.
Do we have at this point enough kind of ground truth to say ‘15 likes the bottom for your domestic sales? Myles I hate to try and call the bottom of a trough and the analogy I keep giving is it’s hard to tell if the trough is going to be V shaped or if one of these troughs has a long flat center to it.
And if you just look at the math and I’m sure everybody’s done the math the math of the sequester budget actually on a pure dollar number basis looks a little better than where we are in ‘15.
So you could say actually even if had sequester it might be little better.
But I would caution folks not to be too excited about that.
If we have the sequester what we really have is a horrible mechanism that goes with the sequester that has this mindless approach to cutting everything equally.
So how that lands in terms of individual companies what impact that would have on our customer community just even to thinking of the customer community and how they will go about getting things under contract and making decisions.
I think the sequester if not fixed is a disaster.
So I’m very focused as I know our customer community is.
And quite honestly I know many thoughtful members in congress are as well focused on being clear that this sequester is something that has to get fixed.
So I’m personally a little bit concerned about this image that somehow just because the number looks a little better in a sequester budget next year that means this year is the trough.
If we don’t get this thing fixed it could be ugly.
And we got to get it fixed.
Now as I said on our last earnings call I’m seeing a lot of more sand at the end of discussing that is underway up on the hill around these issues.
And I really applaud what the department is doing in terms of providing clarity to both the hill and the American people about the necessity of getting this thing fixed.
But it’s not fixed yet and until it is I think we all need to be a little bit careful in terms of how we think about this.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert with Crédit Suisse.
Good afternoon.
Hey Rob.
Congrats Jim and Ken.
I’ll add and Jim I knew that was a cough drop so you had more than you can.
Wes what you just said; want a quick question on that and then a follow up.
But with regard to sequester and the fact that we’ve been living with it for a while and the budget has essentially -- it’s quiet if you will and even if we keep the budget caps we’re kind of flattish to slight up from here.
So is it the behavioral side that you’re most concerned about because I wouldn’t expect to see sales continue to decline? And then I have a follow-up on Aerospace.
Well why don’t throw in follow-up as well; we can keep both of them for you.
Okay.
So on Aerospace sort of the opposite of Noah’s question which is we know that you’re going after some very important premier programs here and they’re significant.
And I think there is a general feeling that they’re additive to the aerospace business.
And I apologize for asking another long-term top-line question but I do think it’s important.
Could you talk about whether or not that assumption on additive is fair given your core aerospace business and how that trends over let’s the next four or five years? Sure okay.
Well let me take on these one at a time first on the sequester.
The point I think is really important to understand is the sequester mechanism that’s embedded in the law requires that the budget cuts that come with it are across the board and apply on a percentage the same to each of these line items if you will.
And that removes the flexibility of the department to manage the core structure to manage its operations to manage all of the things that has to mange in a rational way.
No reasonable person managing a budget having to take money out of the budget would say we cut everything the same.
That’s a disabling approach to managing things.
And as a result of that the department would be put into disarray because the mission hasn’t changed.
No one has said gee we’re going to cut everything the same but let’s cut down our focus on ISIS by the same we cut down our focus on Russia by the same we cut down our focus on emerging threats or the same we cut down our focus on cyber security.
You have to make sure that you’re managing how we deploy our capability to address the threat.
[ph] So it’s this mechanism that cuts equally across all programs projects and activities is absolutely nonsense and that will impact behavior.
If you were the recipient of that type of force guidance; it’s more than guidance it’s the law if you were the recipient of that requirement that you manage things in that manner yes it would create some behaviors that you otherwise would not exhibit because you’re trying to manage to something that doesn’t make any sense.
So as I said earlier we’ve got to get it fixed for the sake of the nation and clearly for the sake of not only the Defense Department I would also say for the sake of all the other components of the discretionary budget that need to be operating in a rational manner we need to get back to whatever the number is; we need to get back to a normal appropriations methodology that enables management of our government programs of our government operations.
So that’s -- I’ll get off myself boxed but that’s my worry that getting this fixed is not done yet.
With respect to Aerospace the set of opportunities that we see before us in aggregate yes would represent an additive outcome to the magnitude of what we do in aerospace.
And there are many of those opportunities both domestic and international that we’re addressing in our Aerospace business.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks at the beginning the success that we’re beginning to see around the globe with our unmanned systems the Global Hawk contract with Korea; the type selection of Global Hawk by Japan; the strong interest in Triton that we’re seeing in several countries now.
Those are very exciting opportunities in front of us.
Jim mentioned E-2D as well the type selection of E-2D by Japan and the opportunities the other opportunities we see internationally for E-2D.
So the international side of this is exciting in aerospace.
And then domestically there are variety of programs that are on the horizon here that too would be additive.
And yes there are some things coming down F-18 is coming down a bit and there is inherent ups and downs in different parts of the AS business.
But when I add those opportunities that we see in front of us to the things we already have that are growing like F-35 I see some hope for the next few years and nice opportunity for growing Aerospace which by the way I see for some of our other businesses too.
Katelyn we’ve got time for one more.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason with Citi.
Hey good afternoon.
Jim congrats and best of luck.
I just had a quick question on the F-35.
I was hoping you could either Wes or Jim kind of the tail end of a year here updated so on the F-35 program.
What I’m looking for is what is your revenue exposure on the program today either as a percentage of total ASP or average selling price of that aircraft or however it is that you give it in dollar terms? And then talk a little bit about the split amongst all of your business how much of it goes into Aerospace Electronic Systems other areas within the company.
And then just kind of lastly whether the margins that you’re recognizing on F-35 program earning to those segments is above or below segment operating margins and whether that margin will grow to be in line segment operating margin over time? Just kind of holistic update on the F-35 would be great.
Sure.
F-35 is one of our largest programs across the company in the aggregate; it’s roughly about 5% of sales.
The mix is heavier towards AS space maybe 70% of the total; Electronic Systems a little bit -- the 30% is roughly evenly split between ES and IS but maybe a little bit heavier at ES.
Probably up about a $150 million in revenue on a total company basis this year ‘15 versus ‘14.
Margin rate is probably little bit less than each of the sectors’ overall margin rate younger program but making progress it’s how we look at it.
And over a long period of time should perform like a mature production program.
Great.
Well thank you.
This concludes the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
And at this point in time I’d like to turn it over to Wes for final comments.
Well obviously I’ll stop with the brief summary of what I said at the start of the call.
2014 was another year of solid performance by the Northrop Grumman team.
And we remain focused on our strategy that is creating long-term value for our shareholders our customers and our employees.
Thanks everyone for joining us today and thanks for your continuing interest in our company.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Northrop Grumman's First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
My name is Kaitlin and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Treasurer and Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Kaitlin and welcome to Northrop Grumman's first quarter 2015 conference call.
Before we start please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
Matters discussed on today's call might also include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled in today's earning release.
We will be posting updated company and sector overviews that provide supplemental information on Northrop Grumman and our four sectors.
You can access our updated company overview and the sector overviews on our Investor Relations webpage.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Ken Bedingfield our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
We're off to a good start in 2015.
Our team generated solid operating results and I want to thank our employees for their continued focus on execution.
We generated earnings per share of $2.41 comparable to last year after adjusting for the $0.23 non-recurring tax benefit in the first quarter of 2014.
These results reflect solid operational performance and the effectiveness of our cash deployment strategy.
Sales rose 2% and reflect higher revenue at Aerospace Electronic Systems and Technical Services.
During the quarter growth on existing and new domestic programs and double-digit international sales growth more than offset declines in mature production programs like the F/A-18.
Sales for the quarter also benefited from a few more working days in this year's first quarter.
In the first quarter we repurchased 5.3 million shares for $859 million.
In total we distributed nearly $1 billion to shareholders this quarter through share repurchases and dividends.
As of March 31 we've repurchased 47.5 million shares or nearly 80% toward our goal of retiring 60 million shares by the end of this year market conditions permitting.
Before our $500 million pension contribution cash from operations was a use of $329 million an improvement over last year's first quarter.
After capital spending of $117 million our pension-adjusted free cash flow was a use of $446 million.
The first quarter is typically our lowest in terms of cash generation.
We continue to expect healthy cash for the year and we are maintaining our full-year guidance for cash from operations and free cash flow.
Total backlog increased to $38.4 billion a modest increase from year-end and a 6% increase from total backlog at the end of last year's first quarter.
Net new awards totaled $6.1 billion and we had a solid 1.03 book-to-bill for the quarter.
Electronic Systems had a book-to-bill of 1.17 and Technical Services had a book-to-bill of 1.90.
You'll recall that on last quarter's call we mentioned a large international award that Technical Services booked at the beginning of the year.
Electronic Systems received an award to supply our SABR radar to Taiwan received long-lead material awards for F-35 lots 9 and 10 and won the contract to develop SEWIP Block 3 the next-generation electronic warfare upgrade for U.S.
Navy surface ships.
During the quarter Aerospace Systems received awards for E-2D and restricted space programs.
And Information Systems received awards for additional restricted cyber work and we won the recompete for the follow-on to our IDENT program in the UK.
We continue to see healthy demand for our products and services and we have a robust global opportunity set for all four of our businesses.
International opportunities for Aerospace Systems include Global Hawk and Triton for sublimations.
We are underway on Global Hawk for Korea.
Japan selected Global Hawk and included it in their budget.
And Global Hawk made its international air show debut at the Avalon Air Show in Victoria Australia.
Japan also selected the E-2D and included it in their budget.
And we are realizing international sales opportunities for F-35 and for Electronic Systems' SABR radar.
Information Systems' C4ISR and cyber capabilities and Technical Services' logistics and modernization offerings are also attractive to our international customers.
We are competing for U.S.
programs like long-range strike common infrared countermeasures and long-range discrimination radar to name a few.
And we are ramping up on production programs like the F-35 and E-2D.
In unmanned we continue to expand autonomous technology with our X-47B unmanned combat air system.
In addition to being the only unmanned vehicle to autonomously perform aircraft carrier takeoffs and landings last week the U.S.
Navy successfully demonstrated fully autonomous aerial refueling with the X-47B marking the first time an unmanned aircraft has refueled in-flight.
In combination these achievements are a major step forward in unmanned autonomy with potential for both manned and unmanned aircraft applications.
Autonomous launch recovery and refueling have the potential for reducing operational costs in the future.
We're proud to have again made aeronautic history and we congratulate the X-47B on another major accomplishment.
The fiscal year 2016 budget process is underway in Congress and we're pleased that there is a growing recognition of the need to support national to support national security in the budget.
At the same time we are concerned about the long term implications of the discretionary budget constraints imposed by the Budget Control Act.
We continue to support the perspective put forward by the Administration that a return to the sequester levels and certainly the sequester mechanism would have a negative impact on our country.
Congress is now negotiating a joint budget resolution.
But we remain cautious on the budget process and customer spending later in the year.
If a budget isn't passed we expect we will begin fiscal year 2016 with a continuing resolution and sequestration may be triggered again next January.
Based on first quarter results and our outlook for the remainder of the year we are increasing our earnings per share guidance to a range of $9.40 to $9.60 from our prior range of $9.20 to $9.50.
We are maintaining our sales guidance of $23.4 billion to $23.8 billion and our outlook for cash from operations and free cash flow is unchanged.
So now I'll turn the call over to Ken for a more detailed discussion of our results and our guidance.
Ken? Thanks Wes.
I also want to thank the team for a job well done.
It was a solid quarter.
Sales were higher due in part to four additional working days in this year's first quarter.
We generated strong segment operating income awards totaled $6.1 billion and cash used during the first quarter was consistent with our historical pattern although slightly better than last year.
Turning to sector results.
Aerospace Systems sales rose 3% driven by double digit growth for unmanned programs and high-single digit growth in the space business.
Volume was higher across a number of unmanned programs including NATO AGS and Global Hawk.
Activity is ramping up on Global Hawk for Korea and Lot 11 for the U.S.
Air Force.
Growth in our space business reflects higher activity for restricted programs.
These increases were partially offset by lower manned military aircraft sales primarily due to fewer F/A-18 deliveries as that program continues to ramp down.
Aerospace operating income and margin rate were strong relative to guidance for the year.
First quarter operating margin rate of 12.6% reflects the timing of performance adjustments across our portfolio.
For the year we expect AS will have a margin rate in the high 11% range on revenue of $9.8 billion to $10 billion no change from prior guidance.
Electronic Systems' first quarter sales increased 2%.
The increase was driven by higher volume for space sensors marine systems and tactical sensors partially offset by declining volume for combat avionics.
ES' operating income and margin rate reflect the changing business mix which includes lower volume on mature fixed-price production programs like combat avionics.
And higher volume for cost type development programs.
As our portfolio evolves we expect to continue to generate a strong but somewhat lower margin than we've seen over the past few years.
For the year we expect ES sales of $6.7 billion to $6.9 billion with an operating margin rate in the low- to mid-15% range no change from prior guidance.
Information Systems' first quarter sales were comparable to last year's first quarter and include higher volume for programs in ISR integrated air and missile defense communications and cyber.
These increases were offset by lower volume for C2 and civil programs including impacts from in-theatre troop drawdowns and lower volume on the CANES program.
IS first quarter operating income rose 2% and operating margin increased to 10.5%.
The quarter-over-quarter improvement is primarily due to improved performance resulting from risk retirements associated with program completions.
Information Systems is off to a good start for the year but as we look at the rest of the year our guidance does contemplate some continued U.S.
Defense budget risk.
We expect short cycle customer spending may be cautious in the second half of the year due to budget uncertainty particularly if we are operating under another continuing resolution in the fourth quarter.
For the year we expect sales of $5.9 billion to $6.1 billion with a margin rate in the mid- to high-9% range no change from prior guidance.
Moving to Technical Services higher international and intercompany sales generated a 10% sales increase in the quarter.
Higher international volume reflects the Ministry of National Guard Training Support award received at the beginning of the year as well as a full quarter of revenue from our IDS acquisition in Australia.
Operating income for the quarter was unchanged.
The lower margin rate reflects the fact that last year's first quarter included higher income from an unconsolidated joint venture.
Excluding that item operating margin rate was consistent with last year.
For TS we expect sales of $2.7 billion and $2.8 billion with a margin rate of approximately 9% again no change from prior guidance.
The 2015 outlook for TS reflects lower volume for the ICBM CNTPO and other logistics and modernization programs which will be partially offset by growth in international.
On a consolidated basis first quarter segment operating margin rate was 12.3% which includes a higher level of research and development spending which you'll see reflected in our G&amp;A expense for the quarter.
We take a total cost structure approach to our business and we are managing this cost within our existing rate structure.
This quarter's results support our guidance of a segment margin rate of approximately 12% for this year.
Our total operating margin rate declines to 13.1% and reflects lower segments operating income lower net FAS/CAS pension adjustment and higher unallocated corporate expense.
This quarter's net FAS/CAS pension adjustment is higher than the guidance we provided on our fourth quarter call primarily due to the $500 million discretionary pension contribution we made in the quarter which reduces FAS expense for the year.
Our updated estimate for net FAS/CAS pension adjustment is $320 million versus our prior guidance of $290 million.
You will recall that in early February we issued $600 million 3.85% 30 year notes.
The proceeds of which were used to fund that contribution.
The contribution generated a non-recurring increase to state deferred tax expense on our pension liability which is the primary driver of the quarter's higher unallocated corporate expense.
One final note on pension as is our standard practice we will finalize our demographic survey in the third quarter and those results may impact that $320 million net FAS/CAS estimate.
A quick note on taxes.
Our first quarter effective tax rate increased to 31.3% from 26.3%.
Last year year's first quarter rate included a benefit related to the partial resolution of the IRS examination of our 2007 to 2009 tax returns.
I would also note that the first quarter tax rate was considered in our 32.5% tax rate guidance for the year.
Looking at our EPS guidance for the year we expect EPS between $9.40 and $9.60.
The higher range reflects first quarter performance the lower FAS expense resulting from the pension contribution as well as our expectation that our weighted average share count would have climbed by about 9% versus prior guidance of an 8% decrease.
Turning to cash cash from operations was a use of $329 million in the quarter before the after-tax impact of the voluntary pension contribution.
Cash used during the quarter was principally driven by changes in trade working capital.
This is typically the case during the first quarter of the year and we are seeing the same trend this year.
Free cash flow before pension pre-funding was a use of $446 million slightly better than last year despite an increase in capital expenditures to $117 million in the quarter.
We continue to expect cash from operations of $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion before the impact of the after-tax pension pre-funding.
This also results in free cash flow of $1.7 billion to $2 billion after expected capital spending of $700 million for the year no change from prior guidance.
In conclusion it was a solid quarter and a very good start to the year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Ken.
As we open up the call for Q&amp;A I would again ask each participant to limit themselves to a single question and if you have any more questions to get back in the queue.
So Kaitlin can you open it up? Your first question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good afternoon.
It's actually Jon Raviv on for Jason.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Jon.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Wes I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the growth outlook.
Obviously this quarter seemed to be – had some nice upside here.
How do you think it trends going forward what surprised this quarter and where could you see things going over the course of the year and into next? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we maintained our sales guidance for the year I would say almost despite all the ups and downs that we see out there.
I would say that this is a period of time where we do see a nice set of opportunities for our company both domestically and internationally.
I mentioned some of those in my prepared remarks.
But when I think about what we're seeing – let me start with international around the globe on unmanned infrastructure our unmanned systems as well as our manned systems and more broadly I would say interest in the C4ISR capabilities that our company has to offer I do see a nice continuingly positive trajectory for our international activities.
As I mentioned in my earlier remarks I also see some really good domestic opportunities long-range strike.
I mentioned the Kirkham program at ES is also a really interesting program for us as is LRDR.
So we have our guidance out there for the year.
We obviously are addressing a lot of opportunities.
But on the domestic front I would also caution and I've mentioned this in my remarks as well continue to caution about the budget environment.
We need to work our way through this see where we really end up as a country with respect to how we're going to be investing in defense and security on a go-forward basis.
While I've been pleased that there is a growing recognition of the importance to appropriately fund defense and security I am concerned about the budget process.
And I think it's going to be a bit more time this year before we have any clarity as to how that's going to resolve.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Morning – actually afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Myles.
Inc.</span></strong> You went through kind of a laundry list of opportunity set but you didn't mention T-X and I think you guys are kind of – got a horse in that race – it sounds like it's a home-grown horse.
Could you talk about that opportunity? And then just a clarification in terms of mix between fixed pricing/cost plus at the company level the last couple of years you've been running with a pretty favorable mix 47% versus kind of used to be 40% fixed price.
Are we trending back towards the kind of 40% fixed price over the next few years? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Well let me hit both of those.
On T-X yes that is a very important opportunity for us.
Timing on that one is out a little bit relative to some of the others that I mentioned.
But we believe we're going to have a very competitive opportunity on T-X.
We see the development of the requirements that the Air Force has been going through to be very positive relative to the nature of the offering that we're putting forward.
We're developing some really good partnering approaches in the program.
So it is an important opportunity for us.
And we're certainly going to be very focused on this.
With respect to the mix equation as I've said before – and we saw some of this already in ES this quarter.
We are delighted to be winning new program opportunities on our company.
And we know we all know that when we win these new opportunities they start out cost plus.
And that inevitably pushes that mix equation Myles that you're asking about back in the direction that it can have some near-term impacts on our margin rates.
We're seeing that right now at ES.
But this is exactly what we want to have happen.
We want to be successful in capturing these new opportunities.
And as we all know over time those turn into production and that's clearly the longer-term margin opportunity.
Wes maybe I'll just add that we've seen a pretty tight band in terms of our mix of fixed price and cost plus for the last few years.
It is down a couple of percentage points this quarter and as Wes mentioned particularly at Electronic Systems as we see some development opportunities there.
But we do have a number of programs where production is ramping up so it could be that we see that start to come back in the next or I'd say in the not too distant future.
As we look at F-35 ramping we look at E-2D and then...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mostly our international programs our production oriented programs.
Right.
And as Triton moves out of development into production in the near future as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Safran with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Rich.
Inc.</span></strong> Wes I guess I just wanted to ask you about your remarks at the beginning of the call on – and your outlook recently for defense spending.
I'm sure you're aware several of your peers are talking about FY 2016 spending coming in maybe above the spending caps.
Some talked about like some type of another Murray-Ryan deal or something some such.
If we did assume that spending did come in above the caps just based on what you get do you think this is going to impact the short cycle under your business or long cycle business? Do you get any sense of where the government priorities will be if there is incremental spending above the caps? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Rich.
I appreciate the question.
Let me first address the if we assume part.
I want to be very careful about that because we have – as I mentioned earlier we have a long way to go from here to there in terms of getting a real budget outcome that is above the BCA levels.
I have optimism in that we are hearing more of the – what I think is the right kind of discussion about the need to relieve the BCA caps quite frankly both defense and non-defense to make sure we are not under-investing in our country either from a security perspective a social perspective or a long-term economic development perspective.
But we've got to get there.
And I want to be careful about sounding too optimistic about that given the amount of time we still have in front of us to sort this out.
But your question had an assumption behind it.
If we assume that we end up slightly above the caps.
I do think it will help the short-cycle business as you mentioned and that there is a fair amount of pent-up need for the capabilities that the shorter cycle businesses provide.
And as you know they took a harder hit in the downturn of spending.
And consequently – historically anyway they tend to more quickly show some recovery.
But this is an interesting period of time as well.
The sequester and these BCA caps that we've been operating under have also impacted the nation's ability to actually go and do what we've been needing to do for a long time which is to fix the aging force structure that we have.
We are at a point in time where our Air Force is the oldest it's ever been in terms of the age of the aircraft that are in the Air Force.
And you can make similar comments for the Navy and for the Army as well.
So there is also a very large pent-up demand for actually buying new things new capability whether it's aircraft or ships or whatever it is because we have been squeezing every ounce we can get out of these old systems.
And so that I think is also weighs heavily in the minds of those who are setting spending priorities in the Pentagon that we've got to fix this problem too.
And I think it just reinforces the need for Congress to get on with it to address this unnaturally low position relative to a percentage of GDP that we're in in our discretionary spending in our country.
So I actually think getting relief can help both the short cycle and the longer cycle business.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Thanks so much.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Rob.
Hey Wes.
I don't know how much you can answer on this regarding LRS but there has been some suggestions that whoever wins this there could be some industry consolidation that occurs subsequently.
What's your view on that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I wouldn't even begin to speculate on things like consolidation or how other parties might react to particular outcomes.
I would only say with respect to LRS clearly it's an important program for our country.
And consequently all of those in our industry with the capability to support it are stepping forward to put on the table our very best.
We feel good about our heritage in that regard.
The B-2 program provides a great capacity within our organization to have a great currency of knowledge and understanding about what's really needed here.
And we're doing that.
We're working hard to provide the Air Force our very best offering on this.
And we'll see with the outcome what it means for how different parties think about it.
But I would also caution LRS is – from our perspective it's a really great program it would be a wonderful opportunity.
But it would just be one more part of a very diversified portfolio that we have in our corporation.
And that actually is something I like very much about our portfolio; the breadth of capability that we have and the breadth of our programs.
No single program is out there driving us in a direction.
I think that our biggest today is 5% or 6%.
So I think that's also a healthy place for us to be for the long term.
So we would eagerly embrace the opportunity to go and execute on LRS for our nation should we be awarded that contract but I would be careful about making prognostications that that alone has a reshaping impact on the industry.
Your next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
Hi everybody.
Thanks for taking the question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Hunter.
So you're going to hit your $60 million share repo target by this year as you laid out.
And sort of help us think about how we should think about modeling that going forward.
You've been taking on about 9% of your shares over the last couple of years – I think this year and last year I should say.
And the year before it was 8%.
How are you going to manage that going forward? Is it going to be maybe to that percentage of share count level or is it going to be on a percentage of free cash flow? How should we think about modeling that when this particular authorization runs out? Thank you.
Hunter let me start off on that one.
We do plan to finish our 60 million share repurchase that we announced a few years back now.
We are looking market conditions permitting to finish that out this year.
I will say that we have not made a decision on what we're going to do after that.
We've got some upcoming board meetings and that will be something that we discuss with the board on what the future capital deployment looks like.
But I will say that we've been repurchasers of our stock since 2003.
Since that year we've repurchased I think about 48% 47% to 48% of our outstanding shares.
Can we continue to return capital to our shareholders at the same rate that we have been this quarter and last year? Probably not sustainable over the long term but you can think of us as a company that does return excess cash to shareholders.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll just add a perspective as well.
When we think about this we do take the long-term view of the company.
And we take a look at our ability to generate cash and how we best deploy that cash.
And we take a very positive view of that.
We see ourselves as an enterprise that should be able to generate healthy cash flows as we look into the future.
And to Ken's point if you look at our history we have been a very proactive returner if you will of cash to our shareholders both in the forms of share repurchase and dividends.
So I think you should think about us in terms of our history.
We are a company that tends to continue to act in the way that we have been acting.
And I think that's probably the best way of thinking about our future here.
And we'll have to figure out the exact rate as Ken pointed out as we go forward.
But if I turn the clock back to 2013 that was sort of an interesting opportunity for our company.
We saw a place in the market where we could go and access the debt market and take advantage of that for our shareholders.
And that's what we've been doing.
So that type of thinking on how we look at our overall capital structure and our use of cash proceeds I think characterizes the nature of the decision-making that we have at the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Good afternoon.
On Aerospace you said that the margins were down 80 basis points and that was due to the less favorable performance.
Could you talk about is this a single-quarter issue or is there a mix change at all here? What's driving your margins and how do you see those playing out over the course of the year? Doug I would say that as we look at our performance in the first quarter of 2015 at AS it was what I would characterize as strong performance for the AS sector simply stacked up against a quarter in 2014 that was particularly strong.
And we continue to think that our margin rate targets for the year at AS the segment margin rate in the high 11%s continues to be appropriate.
I think this is a good solid start to the year at 12.3% – I'm sorry – 12.6% in this quarter at AS.
So we're off to a solid start.
As you compare it to 2014 it doesn't compare as favorably as we started off the year really really strong last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good afternoon Wes and welcome Ken.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> I will stick to the one-question rule but I want to have a part A and a part B and it's with respect to the programmatic commentary you had in the release.
And your comments on space and the double-digit growth there I wonder if you might give us some color with respect to that double-digit rate restricted versus unrestricted what was – were they both up? And restricted was just up more than the average or were they directionally different? And then secondly in ES I wondered if you might give us some color on if there were any specific programs that the combat avionics declines were related to? Thank you.
Carter just to clarify at Aerospace the double-digit increase was at unmanned systems and the largest driver in that as we mentioned was NATO and Triton.
But the space business again it's a healthy business.
It's growing in the single-digit range in the quarter largely driven by restricted.
I believe that as we look at the space business that clearly was the driver for the quarter.
In terms of ES I wouldn't want to get into specifics on a product line basis but the lower volume at ES is in combat avionics and I probably wouldn't want to dig any deeper than that.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good afternoon everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> How are you doing Noah? Hey Noah.
Doing well.
How are you Wes? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
Clarification on the share count guidance the 60 million is net of share creep correct? And is that off of 241 million that you ended in the first quarter of 2013 with? I think the release back then said 235 million.
I guess another way of (33:15) fourth quarter of 2015? Yeah.
No.
I would say that the 60 million share is a target repurchase number.
As far as creep I think we try to manage that pretty carefully.
But the 60 million does not reflect offsetting creep but we certainly take a look at that and manage that carefully.
Essentially if you think about it in round numbers we were around 240 million shares at the time we announced it.
We said we were going to reduce it 60 million or we were going to repurchase 60 million of shares which was about 25% of the then outstanding shares.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Thank you very much Wes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Howard.
How are you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
How are you doing? Great.
The change that you are making seems to be a little bit more of an emphasis on internal development and taking advantage of opportunity.
And just as a preface it seems that if you're managing the business such that there's an incremental to R&amp;D and you're finding offsets some of that could come about through use of IRAD to pick up might be the difference between a bid and an expected award that you end up receiving.
So I know it's a little bit of a lengthy question but how do you think about making sure you're tracking this incremental risk? And who do you sort of make sure brings you bad news if in fact you do find there is some? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Howard it's a great question and I very much appreciate you asking it because it is – I think it's indicative of the thinking that we all have to go through as we go through these cyclical processes in our industry.
And to the extent that we see meaningful opportunities in front of us – and indeed we do – it is incumbent on us to take the actions to invest to ensure that we can approach those effectively.
We have that responsibility both to our shareholders and to our customers to make sure that we are making the prudent investments.
And we want to be very disciplined in how we make those investments but the prudent investments to position us well to both capture and of course to execute on what we see in front of us.
And I'll go back to some of the announcements we made last year and even a little bit earlier with respect to the investments that we've been making in our centers of excellence.
We see those as fundamental investments for our long term to really get much of the promised benefit out of the acquisition of the various companies that we did over the years to really consolidate our footprint down to co-locate our specialists who are working on these different opportunities and to get the synergy that comes from having them really working these things together and it takes money to do that.
And those are investments that we've been making.
With respect to managing the risk on these we have a multi-faceted approach to doing that.
First and foremost we work hard to create a culture in our company where everyone feels not only the opportunity to put their hand up if they see a risk that we haven't been addressing aggressively.
They also feel the responsibility to put their hand up.
And so we have a culture inside the company that is quite transparent in terms of folks at all levels focusing on risk management and also making sure that we are thinking as broadly as we can about both the risk and opportunity side of all of the things that we're taking on.
So in addition to the culture we also have a very disciplined approach to doing risk management in the enterprise that encompasses management at all levels making those risk assessments and communicating them forward.
And our operating rhythm in the company is essentially based on reviewing both the risk and opportunity framework that we see across each and every one of our businesses.
So it's a baked in part of how we do business and to your question of who do I rely on I rely on our team our whole team.
It is a core part of the way that we think about running the business managing the risks.
And I would point out because sometimes I am concerned that when I talk so much about risk management people will hear in there risk aversion.
It is not risk aversion.
It's risk management.
We know that to generate great returns we've got to take prudent risks but we also know that we have to manage them appropriately.
So it is a key part of how we run our company.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
So you mentioned that there were four additional workdays in the quarter.
Could you give us some numbers in terms of how many workdays you have each of these four quarters than last year? And in a rough sense sometimes when you have more working days you don't necessarily have more shipments.
A rough estimate of how much that added year-over-year to your revenues.
Thanks.
Thanks for the question Cai.
I would say that in terms of the additional workdays this year over last year's first quarter we did have four additional workdays.
Essentially 66 days versus 62 days.
I would point out that we will have 365 days in the year and we'll give up those four workdays on the backend in the fourth quarter.
In terms of identifying the amount of sales that came from those four additional workdays we don't have a system that calculates revenues on a daily basis.
I would say that probably had a larger impact on IS and TS as they are more labor-driven but certainly could have had an impact on AS and ES if certain material receipts came in.
But likely higher impacts on the IS and TS business.
Again we don't look at revenues on a daily basis so I can't give you a precise number.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Sam.
I hope you don't mind me asking a two-part question about capital allocation because the first one just – in terms of your decision about whether you continue beyond the 60 million shares is it dependent on what happens with the outcome of the CR sequester or is it independent? And secondly I didn't know if you could comment about the cyber business.
Just that there's been a couple of transactions like Websense and Fidelis.
And just thinking about – is it the type of thing you would have looked at and been interested in but not at those prices? Just anything you can share about that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Sam let me touch on each of these and I'll ask Ken to provide any other commentary that he may have on it.
With respect to our future outlook on share repurchases clearly budget has an impact on the overall financial state of the company.
A difference between the actual budget levels isn't going to necessarily suggest that we turn off all of our ability to return cash to shareholders.
It's more a matter of degree.
And as I said earlier we really do look at our approach to share repurchase over a long period of time and we take a look at our future cash flow projections and see where that puts us and how we think we can best deploy that.
With respect to the cyber business we always are looking at the full set of opportunities.
We have for some time and I see us continuing to do this been very focused on ensuring that we are first and foremost supporting our U.S.
government and to a lesser extent some of our international customer governments in cyber.
So that focus of ours that it tends to be on the high end of the cyber capabilities does not lead us down the path typically of looking at some of the properties that have come on to the marketplace that tend to have a little bit more robust component towards the commercial sector.
So I think this is really about portfolio philosophy and where we are focused and we like our focus on the government side of it.
We believe that that is helping us to continue to stay at the forefront of this technology.
And as I've said over – actually over the years in this regard where we find something that appears to have real commercial applicability our first instinct is to go look to find the right partner to use whatever capability we have in an approach that has a real channel to market and is operating within a company that's focused on commercial channels to market.
We're a company that's focused on serving our government customers both here in the U.S.
and around the globe.
Wes I'll just add on the corporate allocation I think I would simply say we haven't made a decision on what is beyond the 60 million.
I certainly wouldn't want to get ahead of the board but we do expect to be long-term generators of strong cash flows.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> How are you? Well good.
Good.
Wes you've obviously been very aggressive about taking floor space out taking head count down during the downturn.
Potentially looking forward as we get to a point where potentially the budgets start to grow again and potentially with some of these programs coming through to you how do you think about floor space head count as we go forward? I know you're spending heavily on CapEx centers of excellence but just more broadly kind of how are you thinking about that? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So David on the floor space part of it I would say that what we were able to do over these last few years was to actually not only reduce floor space but drive efficiency.
We've taken a very careful look at how we are populating the floor space we've had in the company and have used the current environment as really the opportunity to take a set of actions that in hindsight perhaps we should have taken years ago.
But we took those actions to get us into a place where we are more efficiently utilizing the floor space that we have today.
As we look at new program opportunities we will have to look at how we increment where appropriate or even in many cases even better utilize the floor space that we have.
So for every one of these new opportunities we actually have a strategy that goes with the ability to use the floor space we have as well as oftentimes nearby or adjacent floor space.
But what I think is nice is when we're looking at those strategies today we're looking at them through the optic of the efficiencies that we're operating with today versus where we were some years ago.
On head count this is I would say oftentimes the most challenging part of any activity that we take on in the company.
The head count that – the employees that we hope to find the new employees that we got to find in this space are traditionally some of the most talented individuals in our country and now as we're becoming more international some of those talented folks in each of the countries where we operate.
So we have to have a continued focus on making sure that we are bringing that talent in and retaining that talent.
I will note that even though over the last four years or five years now our total head count is down about 20% because of the demographics in our company and in our industry we've actually been hiring and hiring aggressively through this downturn.
In fact last year we hired just about 5 000 people in our company.
So our hiring machine is running and running well.
And as we go forward we're going to want to make sure that we are continuing to focus on bringing in the very best talent and keeping that talent.
So we've been giving a lot of thought to where this takes us over the next few years.
But I think more importantly we actually have systems operating within the company which I have confidence in producing the results we're going to need as we take on some new opportunities.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Yeah.
My question is in the Q you talk about unfavorable adjustments that's almost like double what they were last year.
Is that one or two specific programs or just spread around or if you could just provide some more color on it? Hey George.
Thanks for the question.
I would say that the unfavorable adjustments in the quarter are spread across a number of programs with no adjustment being significant.
If there were a material adjustment in the quarter we would disclose what that adjustment was and be discussing with you.
So no major issues just we're continuing to work through the contracting process.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Pete.
Hello.
Hey Ken previously you guys gave a FAS forecast for 2016 and 2017.
I'm wondering if the decrease in FAS for this year on the contribution does that apply – can we extrapolate that to 2016 and 2017 as well or is the math not quite that linear? The FAS expense benefit that we received this year generally would apply going forward in 2016 and 2017.
But it depends on a number of other factors including our investment performance for this year including the discount rate at the end of the year.
So I don't know that it would be fair to take that benefit; essentially we had guided $290 million now $320 million.
So a $30 million benefit this year for nine months of the year after we made the contribution.
I don't know that it would be fair to take that and simply carry it forward given the multiple assumptions that impact the analysis.
Your next question comes from Joe DeNardi with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon Joe.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Wes I'm wondering if you could just provide us an update on F-35 and kind of where you stand how performance has been recently.
I think you said last quarter that margins were below the corporate average.
I mean what's the trajectory on that program? Is it volume that really is what you need to drive margins higher? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Joe yes.
F-35 continues to go well.
We are delighted to see finally that we are beginning to come up the production ramp because ultimately at the end of the day coming up the production ramp is what brings the cost down makes the aircraft more affordable and enables all of our partners around the globe to actually acquire the quantity that they need for the F-35 to become the cornerstone of their force structure as they envision it to be.
As the production ramps up it is our expectation that the F-35 margins should have the opportunity to improve over time.
To your point yes they are typically below our average margins on the program in part because of the place we've been in now for a number of years of relatively low rate production and quite frankly contracting that matches that lower rate of production.
But as we move on into real rate we would expect that that rate and the approach to contracting it should enable us to have margins that are more traditional in terms of production rate margins.
Your next question is a follow-up from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
It's Jon Raviv again.
Thanks so much for allowing the follow-up.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Jon.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just a question on CapEx.
You ran – you underran the first quarter versus $700 million I suppose we generally see things ramp up towards the end of the year.
So if you could confirm that as being the case again this year.
And then just kind of looking out farther should we see some (50:50) $700 million stick around what do you think is normalized is it all depending on what you win or you don't win over the next few months and maybe a couple of years any further color on CapEx would be much appreciated.
Hi there Jon.
Thanks for the question.
If I can just talk about the Q1 number I will say that if you look at our CapEx timing during the year we do tend to start off a little bit slower as budgets are released.
And I will say that last year as an example I believe in the first quarter we spent $60 million in CapEx towards a full year number of $560 million.
This year we started out Q1 at $117 million towards what we think is going to be $700 million.
So I think we're still comfortable with our $700 million target for the year.
In terms of beyond 2015 I'll tell you that we don't give guidance beyond that point.
We have talked about the fact that it will stay – capital is likely to stay elevated from where it was historically for a few more years.
Your next question comes from the line of Neal Dihora with Morningside (sic) [Morningstar] (52:02).
Hey.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a follow-up on that F-35 thought process.
I think you guys have given out sort of higher than 11% F-stream long-term Aerospace margins and I'm just wondering if at what point in the production process of the F-35 would it actually be higher or lower.
So is that 11% inclusive of F-35 production or was it before that timing got sort of laid out there? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Neal let me just be clear.
The 11% is a long-term benchmark that we talk about that is reflective of how we see industry performing over a long cycle in the Aerospace sector just as we've given benchmarks for our other sectors.
Our team is performing above that benchmark and is incentivized to perform above that benchmark.
So you can see in the quarter for example we're performing better than the 11% the 12.6% that we reported in this quarter is an example of that.
The point that we've been making on the F-35 and because we have F-35 in each of three of our sectors Aerospace Electronics and Information Systems.
When we look at that in the aggregate and compare it to our aggregate margin rate that's where we see that offset.
So it isn't so much a sector by sector view.
It is more of an aggregate view that the F-35 program isn't quite yet carrying its weight relative to delivering the margins that we have across the company.
So when will we get there? Hard to call.
As I said we are delighted to see the ramp up in the production as we go forward into LRS 9 and 10 but we really need to get to I think probably the place where we're really more routinely operating at this what we would envision to be full rate production before we are able to see the types of margins that we have historically seen in aircraft production programs.
Kaitlin I think we'll do one more question.
Your next question is a follow-up from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for the follow-up guys.
I'm not sure if you said it and I missed it but I wondered if you could comment on what international growth was in the quarter and then I don't know if you disclosed it but what restricted sales were in the quarter year-over-year.
Thank you.
Carter thanks for the question.
I don't believe that we generally discuss restricted sales on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
And in terms of international I think what I'd be comfortable saying is that we believe full year sales for international are going to be around 15% of our total sales and we're not discussing the quarter-by-quarter impact of that.
But we continue to believe 15% of our total sales that we've guided in the range of – for the year the $23.4 billion to $23.8 billion is about where we see 2015 international.
All right.
This concludes our Q&amp;A.
So Wes final comments? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Look Steve I'll just wrap-up by again thanking our team for a very strong start to the year.
We continue to drive our focus on performance ensuring our capabilities are aligned with our customers' needs for the long term and executing our cash deployment strategy.
Thanks everyone for joining the call today and for your continuing interest in our company.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
My name is Kaitlin and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Treasurer and Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Kaitlin and welcome to Northrop Grumman's second quarter 2015 conference call.
As always please understand the matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
Matters discussed on today's call might also include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled in today's earnings release which is posted on our website.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Ken Bedingfield our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
Our first half results reflect a continued focus on performance by the great team we have in our company and I'd like to thank our folks for all that they're doing.
That focus on executing well in combination with effective cash deployment continues to create value for our shareholders our customers and employees.
Looking at the quarter earnings per share increased 16%.
Cash from operations and free cash flow were also higher this quarter.
Through June 30 adjusting for the first quarter pension-free funding operations generated about $300 million in cash versus $170 million last year.
Strong performance from all four of our sectors combined to generate strong segment operating margin.
We also continued to execute our cash deployment strategy.
During the quarter we repurchased 6.8 million shares for $1.1 billion.
Year-to-date share repurchases totaled 12.1 million.
And we are now approximately 90% complete toward our goal of repurchasing 60 million shares by the end of 2015.
In total under the program we announced in May of 2013 we've repurchased more than 54 million shares at an average price per share of just under $121.
We're on track to complete the 60 million share repurchase by the end of the year market conditions permitting.
In addition to deploying cash to significantly reduce our share count in May we raised our quarterly dividend 14% to 0.80 per share.
Year-to-date we've returned $2.2 billion to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends while continuing robust IRAD and capital investments.
Our capital deployment priorities continue to be investing in our business managing the balance sheet maintaining a competitive dividend and returning excess cash to our shareholders through share repurchases.
We believe these priorities are serving our shareholders and the company well.
We ended the quarter with total backlog of $37 billion slightly lower than last quarter but 4% higher than we were at this time last year.
Through June 30 bookings totaled approximately $10.7 billion giving us a book-to-bill of 90% at the mid-point of the year.
International customers continue to express strong interest in our products and services and we see opportunity for long-term profitable growth through both our existing portfolio with programs like F-35 and E-2D Triton and SABR radar as well as through a robust global opportunity set of new programs.
We continue to expect international sales to increase to approximately 15% of 2015 sales.
Here in the U.S.
we are competing for the nation's next generation Long-Range Strike Bomber.
We believe we are well positioned to continue our successful 35-year partnership with U.S.
Air Force on long-range strike systems.
Our B2 bombers are combat proven and we've been consistently upgrading and sustaining them.
Other important new opportunities here in the U.S.
are programs like common infrared countermeasures long-range discrimination radar Trainer-X the Joint STARS recapitalization and JCREW.
As a company we have a well diversified portfolio of existing programs in future opportunities.
No single program is a must win for us.
The breadth of our portfolio addresses many areas of investment priority for our U.S.
and international customers.
But our customers rely on budget clarity to plan and execute their priorities.
Our rational orderly U.S.
defense budget process will go a long way towards supporting execution of the Pentagon's strategic spending plans to ensure our national security.
We encourage congress to address the artificial spending constraints imposed by the Budget Control Act which are negatively impacting our nation.
Given the current status of budget negotiations and the limited congressional sessions remaining until the end of fiscal year 2015 we expect to begin fiscal year 2016 with a continuing resolution.
Unless congress acts to address the BCA we may also see sequestration triggered in January.
Despite these ongoing budgetary challenges we continue to be focused on performing for our customer shareholders and employees.
Based on the strength of year-to-date results we are raising our EPS and cash guidance.
We now expect 2015 earnings per share of $9.55 to $9.70 and free cash flow of forward discretionary pension pre-funding of $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion.
In light of the prevailing budget uncertainty and the likelihood for a continuing resolution in our fourth quarter we're maintaining our sales guidance of $23.4 billion to $23.8 billion.
So now I'll turn the call over to Ken for a more detailed discussion of our results and our guidance.
Ken? Thanks Wes.
I also want to thank the team for a job well done.
It was a solid quarter and we're on our way to having another strong year.
Second quarter EPS increased 16% which includes a one-time tax item.
We recognized $38 million of additional research credits in the quarter which provided a $0.20 benefit to EPS.
Excluding the tax benefit earnings per share increased 7% over last year's strong second quarter.
Our segment operating income for the quarter was unchanged and segment's operating margin rate increased 30 basis points reflecting strong performance across all four of our businesses.
Total operating income was slightly lower than last year due to lower net FAS/CAS pension adjustment while the operating margin rate increased 20 basis points to 13.8%.
I would note that our unallocated corporate expense for the quarter was lower than last year's second quarter but on a year-to-date basis unallocated corporate expense is consistent with last year's results.
Turning to cash.
Operations generated $626 million in the quarter and $297 million year-to-date before the voluntary pension pre-funding.
This year's results are consistent with our pattern of having the majority of our cash generated in the second half of the year.
Second quarter free cash flow was $511 million after capital investments of $115 million.
Turning to sector results.
We had strong performance across the board.
Aerospace Systems sales were slightly higher in the quarter and year-to-date.
We continue to see growth in our unmanned and space businesses.
Year-to-date unmanned sales are up more than 10% while space sales are up around 5%.
These increases were partially offset by declines in a number of other programs the largest of which was the F/A-18.
Year-to-date F/A-18 deliveries have declined to 17 from 25 last year.
Ramp-up on production activities for the E-2D is partially offsetting the F/A-18 ramp down in military aircraft programs.
Aerospace's operating income and margin rate were also higher for both the quarter and year-to-date.
I would note that this quarter's operating income includes the benefit of risk retirements on a restricted program and based on first half results we now expect an AS margin rate of approximately 12% versus our prior guidance of high 11%.
Our revenue expectation is unchanged at $9.8 billion to $10 billion.
Moving to Electronic Systems.
Second quarter sales declined 3% and are comparable on a year-to-date basis.
Operating income and margin rate were solid in both periods and continue to reflect the changing business mix that is more heavily weighted toward development and cost-plus type work.
Our guidance for ES is unchanged.
We continue to expect sales of $6.7 billion to $6.9 billion with an operating margin rate in the low-to-mid 15% range.
Information Systems' second quarter and year-to-date sales were also consistent with our expectations.
The sector continues to perform very well and at the midpoint of the year operating income and operating margin rate are slightly higher than last year despite a low single digit sales decline.
Due to the strong performance we are increasing IS operating margin rate guidance to the high 9% range versus our prior guidance of mid-to-high 9%.
We continue to expect IS to generate sales of $5.9 billion to $6.1 billion.
Moving to Technical Services.
Second quarter operating income and margin rates are comparable to last year on slightly lower sales.
Year-to-date sales are up about 4% primarily due to higher international and higher intercompany sales in the first quarter.
We are raising sales guidance for Technical Services to approximate $2.8 billion from our prior guidance of a range of $2.7 billion to $2.8 billion.
We continue to expect a margin rate of approximately 9% at TS this year.
On a consolidated basis segment operating margin rate was 12.6% for the quarter and 12.5% year-to-date.
We are maintaining our guidance of approximately 12% for the year.
While our year-to-date total operating margin rate was 13.4% we're maintaining our guidance of mid 12% for the year due to anticipated changes in our tax methods for Federal tax ratios.
While the methods change shift taxable income into the future and possibly impacts our 2015 cash guidance it negatively impacts our 2015 P&amp;L in two ways.
First it results in a non-recurring increase to unallocated paid taxes of around $45 million most of that will likely flow through our third quarter unallocated corporate expense.
As a result we expect unallocated corporate expense of about $200 million for the full year 2015.
The methods change will also move our effective tax rate higher in the second half of the year and closer to the statutory rate due to lower reductions for domestic production activities.
As a result we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 32% this year.
So for your modeling purposes third quarter results are expected to reflect the majority of the $45 million non-recurring increase in unallocated corporate expenses and our effective tax rate will be closer to the statutory rate.
The last EPS guidance item I would like to note is that we now expect the weighted average diluted share count of approximately 192 million shares for the full year.
Looking at our EPS guidance for the year we now expect EPS between $9.55 and $9.70.
The higher range reflects strong first half performance the tax methods change and the lower expected share count than our prior guidance.
We're also increasing the guidance for cash from operations and free cash flow.
Excluding after-tax discretionary pension contributions we now expect cash from operations will range between $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion and free cash flow will range between $1.9 billion and $2.1 billion.
With that Steve I think we're ready for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Ken.
In order to allow time for everybody in the queue to get through please limit yourself to a single question with one follow-up.
Kaitlin? Thank you Steve.
Your first question in queue comes from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good afternoon everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Noah.
Hey Noah.
Ken maybe just a little bit more detail or some follow ups on those outlook components.
So understand the unallocated nonrecurring the tax rate change is that also nonrecurring or what does that do to the tax rate beyond 2015? And then the change in cash from ops and free cash is that all just cash taxes or is it something else? And then does that sustain or not beyond 2015? So on the corporate unallocated that is a nonrecurring as is the impact on the income tax rate Noah.
It's just moving income from 2015 to 2016.
As we changed the method it'll continue to push income out 2016 to 2017.
So essentially it's a one-time cash benefit but we don't have to pay it back in the future and we will then realize the benefits of the state and those federal deductions in 2016 and beyond.
Okay.
Is it possible to perhaps I know you don't want to commit to numbers beyond 2015 it's too early to do that but perhaps there is a sort of directional break own you could provide.
On average the next few years the base business converts net income into free cash at X% and then between tax and pension or anything else that's a major bucket what would drive you off of that regular conversion one way or the other? I would say Noah we wouldn't want to comment really beyond 2015.
In terms of – you asked about CAS in terms of CAS I think there's some information on the website that has some directional data for CAS purposes for 2015 2016 and 2017 but I don't think I'd want to comment beyond that.
Your next question in queue comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Doug.
You have taken net debt up substantially over the last year and I'm just trying to understand where you want to be in terms of a stable level of cash on the balance sheet going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And so Doug let me just kind of frame in a broad sense because I don't think we want to pick one particular number.
We manage the company based on the broad environment that we see.
And from a net debt increase perspective we made a decision in 2013 and we followed through on it that based on the attractiveness of the debt markets to our company at the time it made sense for us to change our balance a little bit go out and take on a little bit of additional debt and use that for share repurchase.
We've been doing that and I think that's served us all very well and we have a very regular rhythm if you will to looking at where we are from a total debt position and what it means in terms of the way both we're operating the company as well as what our overall capital structure looks like.
So we want to retain some flexibility in that regard; that's why I don't want to drive a stake in it at any one point in time.
But in general I would just say our philosophy is we want to make sure we're obviously respecting and treating our debt holders the right way.
But we look for the right economic environment and circumstances to position our overall capital structure in a way that we think it creates the most value.
And Doug I'll just mention that certainly we look to maintain more than a comfortable level of liquidity certainly first looking at cash on the balance sheet and then beyond that additional credit capacity.
But I would say that we're very careful in looking at our expected cash flows in determining when and where we make those investments and maintaining a comfortable level of liquidity.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And that's important given the nature of our contracting business that we ensure that we've got access to adequate cash to deal with the ups and downs of the budget and the appropriation process and I think we have a pretty good model for how to do that actually.
It's a barely detailed model we use to project what our needs may be and add of course some risk factors to that.
So I think in terms of cash on the balance sheet our approach to managing that is serving us quite well.
But is that fair to say then that the level you're at right now is the level that you're comfortable with and I ask because as you finish this year and complete the 25% share repurchase effort you look at the cash levels and the question we have is to think about what's the next step whether you do beyond the completion of this current effort? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And I appreciate that question as well Doug.
It's clear to us that we are going to be assuming that the growth continues in the factor that we foresee it continue to be a very good generator of cash as we have been for a number of years.
So your question is a really important question with respect to cash deployment and I think it's appropriate to take a perspective on that now and just kind of layout where we are.
As I said in my remarks we're about 90% complete on the repurchase program that we announced back in the middle of 2013 and at that time you laid out the objective of repurchasing 60 million shares which turned out to be about 25% of our then outstanding shares.
So right now obviously we're very focused on getting done what we said we would do and that's our primary focus for executing on that and the team is very focused on making sure we complete it.
And this most recent program while it's been at a higher run rate in terms of the rate that we purchase than our prior repurchase activities it really is a continuation of the cash deployment strategy that we've had in place for a number of years and it goes directly to your question about cash generation and what do we with that.
And as I said in my remarks our priorities are the same today as they have been.
First priority always invest in the business where we could see that we can get a good return on that investment but we're also focused on managing the balance sheet and we're clearly focused on ensuring that we're paying a competitive dividend and we've generally been targeting that in the 30% to 40% range of pension adjusted earnings and then with the excess free cash flow we have been very proactive in returning that excess free cash flow to shareholders via share repurchase.
So as I again said in my remarks I think that's working out well for us.
In fact it's been that way for quite some time if you turn the page back to a little bit over a decade ago once we get this current program finished off we will have retired about that – about half of the total shares we had outstanding a little over decade ago.
So you can take a look at how we've been doing over a long history of how we're deploying our cash and I think you can get the sense – we kind of like that strategy.
We've been consistent I believe in both articulating that strategy and in executing the strategy.
So we don't have any new announcements to make today.
I'm not in a place where we're going to say okay after this program it's done here is what we're going to do.
We're focused on getting this program but I think you can judge by our past actions over a relatively long period of time how we assessed and act on our cash deployment priorities and to your point that cash deployment is supported by a very robust approach to cash generation.
So I hope that answers your question perhaps in a little bit broader context than you asked it but that's the way we're thinking about our company right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon.
It's actually Jon Raviv on for Jason.
I was wondering if you could revisit some of those long-term margin targets by segment that Jim used to talk about and how they might be affected by some structural shifts in your business i.e.
more international and more aftermarket services linked to your platforms? Sure.
Happy to talk about that I would say that I think our long-term objectives in terms of margin rates for the sectors continue to be relevant and as we look at our business going forward we see in some respects offsetting factors.
We have some level of domestic development work that we see in front of us and we have some more mature production work in terms of – particularly international opportunities but other opportunities with E-3D and F-35 starting to ramp in those areas as well.
So we have a little bit of a mix in terms of – potentially lower margin development work and higher margin production and higher expectations on international.
That should offset and I think that's because of those factors that the objectives that we've laid out continue to be relevant.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I would just add to that the numbers that we've talked about over time I think are still meaningful those are benchmarks benchmarks that we see as representative of the way the businesses can perform based on a marked view of where we've been and how the industry performs.
Let me be clear we incentivized our team to be better than the benchmarks and that's our core part of the strategy in the company.
But as Ken pointed out there are pressures in both directions whether it is the mix of development and production that we have pressing in one direction or the growth in international pressing in a different direction but it's our job to manage all of those things.
And as I said we measure ourselves on how well we do and that goes directly to the way our incentives work.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And as a quick follow-up on talking about services services not necessarily linked to your platforms how do you approach that portfolio in light of your competitor or one of your competitors suggesting they want out of that market? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But we've been a very active manager of our portfolio for many years now on both I would say the products and the services sides of the company and I think that portfolio management has been working well for us.
It's included taking a variety of actions selling and spinning out businesses as well as sometimes simply exiting some of our efforts through attrition.
And those portfolios of actions have moved us largely out of the low margin commoditized service businesses.
In fact if you look at IS and TS where the majority of our service business resides those sectors today are reporting operating margin rates in the range of 9% to 10%.
So I think that shows you what we've done already in terms of managing that part of our portfolio.
I think it's also important to add that we see our remaining service businesses as really important in supporting our efforts with our products business.
So there is really good strategic alignment of the different parts of the business in that way.
Just to give an example of that if you look at the service businesses at IS and TS somewhere in the range of 80% to 85% of that service business is with our DoD and our Intel customers.
So we think we've found the balance and mix that's working well to support our broad strategy.
We do of course continue to be active portfolio managers and we are constantly testing alignment or asking ourselves whether we're the best owners of each of these businesses and we also work hard just in a broader context to ensure that any decision that we make whether it's a decision to exit or a decision to retain any particular business that such a decision actually enables shareholder value creation based on the market conditions at the time.
I think that's a really important part of the thought process.
Your next question in queue comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Howard.
How are you both – all three of you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
Good.
Since we're talking strategic you guys do a nice – the company does a nice job of integrating airborne vehicles.
And you look at opportunities and Sikorsky came on the market and there's elements that might very well fit with you.
So could you elaborate on what some of the considerations you undertook – because clearly it does have a cash positive contribution to Lockheed now that they've acquired it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Howard I appreciate the question.
We have a very strict policy that we adhere to that we don't give specifics on any particular transactional activity in the marketplace.
But I think I can answer your question in a broad context.
We are active and looking at a variety of things that come onto the marketplace.
And to your point we are very thoughtful and our very first thing that we go to is really fit with the strategic factor that we see our company on and how we see individual elements of both our current portfolio and anything that we're particularly looking at how we see those things fitting together to create value.
Often times we can see something that if you will from an architectural or engineering or how we sell something we can see it fit together but we can't get to the create value part at least not in a relative sense to our other opportunities to deploy those resources that would be used in a particular transaction.
So we're strong adherents to that create value part of the equation and we're – as we look at a variety of different possibilities out there we're just adamant that whatever we do honestly stacks up well against our other alternatives so that's kind of the way we frame our thinking.
I appreciate both the discretion and the deliberate answer.
Now I want to just ask on operational question for a second.
Sure.
You've – there's a lot of money – well there's an enormous amount of opportunity with the UCLASS program and the Senate has provided – basically has created you as at least one of the viable opportunity or solutions there.
Could you sort of discuss how you see some of the unmanned vehicle market playing out from here? I mean you're clearly the leader and you clearly have some very nifty solutions and it's been an important part of your growth as you outlined in the quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It is an important part of our growth.
It's a very important part of our company and I honestly think we're still at the early stages of understanding collectively from a defense and security and perhaps even more broad perspective how unmanned systems and more broadly I would say autonomous systems are over time going to play an increasing role and performing the missions that our nation and our allies need to perform.
On the target though of your question with respect to airborne unmanned systems the growing recognition that the surveillance needs are continuing to expand and it's not a linear expansion it's higher rate than that.
Those needs are continuing to expand to address all these challenges that we're seeing around the world really is a direct connect into the strength of what unmanned can bring; the ability to operate with persistence the ability to use the extra capacity if you will of a platform that you obtain by removing the need to support a humanoid and replace that with mission capability all of those things play very well.
And to the true effectiveness of these unmanned systems and as we've been demonstrating on Global Hawk our ability to bring the operating costs down on these systems to a place where the cost equation is so incredibly attractive I think is going to only continue to grow.
As these systems grow and their operational utility we'll be able to continue to bring down both the cost of creating the systems as well as the cost of operating these systems.
So we are at the early stage and I appreciate it that you mentioned UCLASS.
UCLASS was a phenomenal set or UCAS the predecessor to UCLASS.
UCAS-D was a phenomenal demonstration of what these things can do and it wasn't just the fact that we were able to both take off and land an aircraft on an aircraft carrier this thing was a flying wing that we used to takeoff from land.
And for those who are students of aeronautical engineering you'll understand how much harder that is than just doing any aircraft.
So this was quite a demonstration.
And then to follow that up with a demonstration of the ability of UCAS-D to go up and get refueled in flight with a tanker it's just a big big step forward that we're seeing in these systems.
So I believe we've got a lot in front of us.
Where this will all go will be a mix not only of technology but also of policy and operating doctrine and sometimes those arenas are not as fast paced as the technology is.
So I think we have to be thoughtful and recognize that there are a number of things that are going to pace it.
But the work that's being done for example in the U.S.
in terms of aerospace integration that the FAA has taken on I think is another signal of the growing recognition of the importance of this class of technology.
So I'm excited about where this is going.
Our team is clearly excited.
We are continuing to make sure that we're doing the right things to invest in this technology both in terms of its development capability but also in terms of our ability to produce it economically and we see a bright future for unmanned systems.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Thank you very much.
So Wes with your share repurchase your net debt to EBITDA has increased from a very modest level to a slightly higher level still comfortable.
As you think beyond completing the announced share repurchase what do you think the correct gross or net EBITDA debt-to-EBITDA ratio is for the company? And how should we think about the potential for continuing the share repurchase after the current one is completed? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi.
Cai let me kind of provide a similar perspective to the response I gave Doug on a similar I know not exact question.
In terms of looking at the variety of metrics whether it's the amount of cash we want to maintain on our balance sheet to ensure the robustness of our operations or if we're thinking about important metrics like debt-to-EBITDA this is an ongoing process for the company.
We take a very careful and thoughtful look at how our overall capital structure plays into what we're trying to achieve strategically as an enterprise and then what the consequential outcomes are for so many of these important metrics and what those mean for our broader strategy and for of course our board and for our debt holders.
We're very thoughtful on both fronts.
So we haven't put out there any particular hard benchmarks on these things.
We think it's important for us to be able to maintain some flexibility to deal with a changing environment that's out there but we recognize our responsibilities to manage these things very carefully.
And we are very very mindful of all the elements of the different metrics and how they are understood and relate to the way that they have potential impacts for our shareholders and our debt holders.
So with respect to share repurchase on a go-forward basis as I mentioned earlier we're proud of our history.
Our look back on that of how we performed on it I think is quite positive.
And that history does inform our thinking about the future.
And that's kind of where we are today as we move forward and have more to say on it.
We'll certainly continue to be clear and to articulate our strategy.
But we're comfortable with where we are today and it seems to make sense in today's environment.
Wes should I take from your answer that how you approach it in the future will be heavily influenced by your success or lack thereof with the bomber competition? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We really haven't linked those types of broad strategy questions ourselves to individual programmatic outcomes.
Cleary when we look at the integrated impact of all of our programmatic positioning we include all of those considerations in terms of our overall cash deployment strategy.
As I mentioned earlier our priorities forecast for deployment remain the same; investing in the business there's always first.
If we can see an opportunity to invest and get a great return through those investments that's where I like to put the first dollar.
But we're very prudent about that as our criteria for applying that dollar is the same as if we were doing something else different.
We look at where we can get the return and part of the reason for being in business is to deploy cash inside the business and to generate great returns and we're doing that.
We see quite a few really good opportunities.
You mentioned one of them.
There are a number of great opportunities that we have in our company and it's exciting actually to be in a place where we see such an array both domestically and internationally of opportunities.
But that being said as I indicated in an earlier response we do anticipate very solid cash flows in our business and we would expect that as we go forward we're going to continue to have capacity to do a variety of things with those cash flows in alignment with those priorities that I've delineated.
Your next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> How are you Sam? Hi Sam.
Hey.
Wes you kind of made a comment about the current situation with the budget resolution and starting with a CR and that's led you to not change your sales guidance.
And I'm just trying to just think through I wouldn't think you'd get that quick of a turnaround and just want to confirm if there is some sort of resolution or if they get money through OCO is there any scenario where that ultimately would help you in 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sam I'm glad you asked the question because I think it's important to clarify.
When we are in a mode of a CR particularly one that has on the back end of it a potential sequester it's usually not so much the actual flow of dollars from an appropriation standpoint that impacts us in the near-term it's more the way our customers are thinking about what might happen.
And we've seen a little bit of this in past years when we were in a CR situation and there was a lot of uncertainty as to whether or not Congress would act with respect to removing the BCA caps or what the sequester implications might be.
So this is more about our customers willingness to put things on contract or to allocate funds on existing contracts and we'll just kind of have to see what the environment looks like over the next number of months.
As always we're making sure that we are planning for a variety of scenarios.
So we don't expect to be caught short if you will in any respect with how things might play out.
But that small extent of volatility that's represented sort of in the range of our guidance is our thinking around if we see something similar at this time to what we observed a few years ago when there was this uncertainty of what could happen when you are in a CR with a potential sequester at the end of it I think it's prudent for us to be clear that there is some potential uncertainty in that regard.
Thank you.
And then just on some of the changes within the segments and I guess for Ken is really if it looks like Aerospace is up Technical Service is up you get some sort of a cash benefit from the tax change that you're talking about.
Is there anything that's on the negative side or is it those three items that really are affecting your free cash flow guidance for the year? I would say Sam that in terms of cash flow guidance for the year I think the cash we expect to generate from the sectors is pretty consistent with what we expected at the beginning of the year and the update to the cash flow guidance is primarily tied to our change in tax methods which is going to result in lower tax payments for the full year of 2015.
The next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Myles.
Inc.</span></strong> First just sort of clarification – hey the clarification on the lower share count.
Is that buying more upfronts lower dilution or are you going above and beyond the $60 million this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> For the most part that's buying little bit more upfront than we have planned Myles.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
The question maybe Ken is on the implied margin in the second half in both IS and AS respectively 100 basis point plus sequential declines second half over first half and IS has some of that seasonality AS generally doesn't I heard you call it the one time in AS but still it looks like there is more conservatism than not.
Can you help us bridge that? Yeah thanks Myles.
I appreciate the question.
So we did increase guidance somewhat at both AS and IS largely based on the performance in the first half of the year.
You mentioned IS had some help from risk retirements on a restricted program as we disclosed.
And IS had some positive impacts from program completions and that's both in the first quarter and the second quarter.
Also I'll just mention that year-to-date margin rates for ES and TS approximate their 2015 guidance.
Other point I would make is that our segment margin rate is approximately 12% so it's not a point estimate at 12%.
In terms of other thoughts we do have the potential as Wes has mentioned for some customer behavior changes in the second half of the year more likely to impact our short-cycle businesses but we're keeping eye on that risk as we think about what our 2015 segment margin rate is.
All that being said we incentivize our team to perform on this and several other metrics and certainly look forward to working with a team to continue to focus on managing risk and capturing opportunities in the second half of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with RBC Capital.
Thanks so much.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Robert.
Hey.
Wes you mentioned that you expect to expose this year to make up roughly 15% of sales.
I was wondering how much of that is already in the backlog and also where you think this percentage could hit maybe hit into next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So in terms of the backlog I think pretty much all of it is reflective in our backlog today.
So I think it's a fairly straight forward projection for this year.
We're not guiding it to next year.
All I would say though is international continues to be a growing part of our business.
We're excited about the opportunity space that's in front of us and I have in the past sort of clicked through some of those things that might give us the opportunity of your question just to remind everyone of kind of what we see out there.
We've earlier this year announced already the Global Hawk in Korea and I see that as a really important first step in the growth of unmanned for our allies.
We have Japan very interested in Global Hawk.
They made an announcement earlier of their interest.
Australia as well has announced their interest in Triton.
Germany is now taking a hard look at Triton as well.
So the whole arena of unmanned particularly in the surveillance space I think is going to be a very nice set of opportunities for us.
I mentioned Japan not only are they pursuing Global Hawk they're also pursuing E-2D and E-2D is a platform.
I believe we will see a number of opportunities emerge for us around the globe.
It is a remarkable capability that Navy is very successfully deploying and utilizing and I'm sure that a number of our allies around the globe are going to be quite interested in that.
Electronics which historically has been our strongest business in terms of the fraction of its sales that are international continues to see a lot of opportunities.
The SABR program that we announced earlier in Taiwan is one that I think we're going to see some nice opportunities around the globe.
Cleary Korea is one that is in the near term more near term than some of the others but I think that's representative of the breadth of abilities that ES is bringing to the international marketplace.
And then both IS and TS have a variety of opportunities out there as well whether we're talking about air defense systems or we're talking about sustainment opportunities or in some cases the cyber opportunities.
So it's an important and growing part of our business and we're delighted to be able to serve our allies in a more robust manner.
And then Wes just to mention to add on to that I think that we have international opportunities we also have a robust set of domestic opportunities as well depending the international opportunities do at times take a little bit longer to turn into sales so depending on what moves first in terms of domestic we talk about LRS F-35 ramp up E-2D ramp up.
Depending on what moves first you could see international growth with domestic growth out pacing it potentially in one year or another.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Okay.
That's great.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Hi.
Inc.</span></strong> So I have just one question but it's really kind of a two parter here.
Wes obviously the main focus right now on procurement is Long-Range Strike Bomber but you recently teamed with L-3 and GD on JSTARS recap which you mentioned by the way in your opening remarks.
So first thing is the fact that a bunch of teams has now been formed any indication that the program is moving forward? If you could can you give us some sense of a timeline and maybe size of the program that sort of thing? The second part is if you mentioned T-X in your remarks the new trainer I missed it but I thought you might give us an update on the program and your current thinking there? And in your answer if you could add any new initiative of the programs that you are focusing on now that I might have missed? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks in terms of Joint STARS first let me start up by saying we're delighted to be able to team with both General Dynamics and with L-3 to pull together an offering that we think will just do an outstanding job of meeting the requirements and doing so in a very affordable manner.
So we're delighted with that partnership and looking forward to the competition.
The other competitors that have announced so far my recollection of that is both Lockheed and Boeing have announced their interest in this competition.
So that'll make it a very good competition and we're looking forward to putting together a very competitive offering.
The current state of play on Joint STARS is all public information.
The Air Force has indicated that they're planning to award a development contract sometime in 2017.
I think right now they're talking about towards the latter part of 2017 and then play it out from there in terms of getting to production or production representative aircraft and then roll that on into production over the course of 2020s.
So we're focused on two things.
Obviously we have responsibility and accountability for maintaining and sustaining the current fleet of Joint STARS but we're off the belief that the new program can move along as quickly and should move along as quickly as the Air Force can support it from a funding perspective and in fact we think the nation would be served well by moving it along very quickly because the technology is ready and it's a matter of integrating and getting the aircraft flying.
On T-X that too continues to move forward.
There we're delighted to partner with BAE Systems and I think as you may have read a little bit or seen some of the coverage in some of the industry trades we're focused on a new development type aircraft and we're looking forward to having a bit more to say about that in the coming months.
But we believe we'll be able to put forward a very compelling offering there as well.
I would tell you that the Air Force has been indicating continuing to indicate that T-X is an important priority for them and that they're going to continue to be supporting that in their overall budgeting approach.
So we're looking forward to being able to compete on that and provide I think a very compelling offering there as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Richard.
Your next question in queue comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Hey Carter.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon Carter.
Inc.</span></strong> Couple of just clarification details Ken on the AS performance in the quarter.
I wondered if you could just sort of tell us which was the bigger grower in absolute terms unmanned or restricted? And then a second one on the in-theater force reductions in IS which has obviously have come up in several quarters in your description how much more downside do you see there for that business and are we getting close to a bottom related to that? Thanks.
Sure.
Carter no problem.
At AS I would say the largest driver for the quarter was unmanned in terms of top-line what drove the performance for the quarter.
And then your second question in terms of in-theater the biggest in-theater impacts that we see are at IS and the ES and we project about a $200 million reduction this year in-theater sales to I think it's about $700 million for the year.
And actually last year the bigger piece of that reduction was that IS.
This year the biggest piece of that reduction probably two-thirds is ES just as the different programmatic and programs that they have in-theater are ramping down.
So that's where we see it for this year and $700 million is kind of the baseline for 2015 and beyond that we haven't yet I would say put pen to paper on what that would look like.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
I'll stick to that.
Thanks Carter.
Your next question in queue comes from Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Rob.
Hi Wes.
Wanted to go back to capital allocation but I'm not going to ask you what you're going to do next from a buyback perspective.
But instead ask you if the environment stabilizing here might make M&amp;A a little bit more interesting not talking about specific deals but just your overall view about what's out there especially given just the size of these very binary opportunities in front of you and dependent on how those might go.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think it's very possible that a shift in the environment may cause a variety of additional opportunities to become present in the marketplace but for us the question would always be value and whether or not anything that we're looking at stacks up well relative to our other alternatives.
As I've said in the past and I feel that way today when I look at our footprint here in the U.S.
I really don't see a big burning hole in our portfolio in some way and that therefore puts us in a position where we feel really good about our portfolio.
Our decisions are really genuinely going to be value based and we really have to see the business case for something to make sense for us.
So the thrust of your question was whether there may be more opportunities coming into the marketplace and yeah there may very well be the question will be how will they stack up relative to other alternatives.
Obviously the value part of that answer makes a lot of sense.
But considering just again you've been focused on the stock and that value equation has changed over time with your success with the stock so can we at least assume that that hurdle rate for alternatives changes relative to your valuation? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think you have to look at all the alternatives.
Clearly we talked about our interest and our history on share repurchase.
We also look at our dividend but we also look at investing inside the company where we have a lot better insight into what the possibility of return is and we have a lot more ability to affect that outcome.
So I didn't put all the words into the prior answer.
I would add the word risk adjusted return.
We really do think about the risk part of the equation as well when we think about overall value.
But as we go forward we'll continue to look at what our long-term view is of the company's valuation.
The answer to your question is yes clearly our share repurchase program has been a big part of our success in generating value for our shareholders but history has not yet ended.
We keep looking forward and are convinced that we have a lot of opportunity on a go-forward basis to continue to generate value and we take that longer term view when we think about share repurchase.
We're not just looking at the price as of today; we take a longer term view and that served us really well.
As I said we've been at this now over a decade and our average price of repurchase over that decade looks really really effective compared to where we're trading today and we think about our share repurchase program with that type of very long-term view.
Kaitlin I think we'll do one more.
Your next question in queue comes from the line of Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
Hi guys.
Thanks for getting me on; I appreciate it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Hunter.
Hey Hunter.
Good morning – well good afternoon.
I know we've talked about this so I'll try and ask it a little bit different way.
On long-range strike in the event that you are successful can you give us an idea of what type of incremental CapEx you might be looking at? And in the event that you're not successful I know you said that you are not going to necessarily change the way you think about capital allocation per se in a vacuum but would that change the way you think about M&amp;A in the context of being maybe a buyer or a seller? Not necessarily would it raise the appetite to engage in it but would it change the way you think about it? Thanks a lot.
Sure Hunter.
I'll take the first part of the question and turn it over to Wes for the second.
In terms of capital we've talked about the amount of capital expenditure that we expect to incur in 2015.
We've talked about a number around $700 million.
We think that's – at this point we think that's a reasonable number of where we are for the year.
And given what we've seen publicly about the timing of an LRS award I don't think that impacts us significantly one way or the other.
I would say that we don't provide guidance beyond 2015 but one way or the other as Wes mentioned we do expect to be strong generators of cash flow whether that's cash from operations or free cash flow as we project out beyond 2015.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Hunter on your question regarding whether a outcome on LRS would change our perspective on M&amp;A let me get to what I think is underlying some of the questions we're hearing in that regard and that goes to essentially the question of scale or top-line growth.
And I'll say what I've said so many times in the past we do not manage our company on the top-line.
We manage the company based on value creation.
In fact over the last number of years we've taken a number of actions that have very intentionally reduced our top-line because we saw those actions as accretive to value and that's the way we're thinking about our overall value proposition.
So the question of – if we're not successful on one thing or another and perhaps that means our sales are not growing as quickly do we try and make that up some way with M&amp;A that's not the way we think about it.
What we do think about is look at each of the alternatives that we see that are available to us in one way or another stack them up against our priorities stack them up against risk-adjusted value creation opportunity and make our decisions on that basis and that's the way we're going to be doing.
Great.
That concludes the call.
I apologize we didn't get through the queue.
I will be in my office for anybody who wants follow-up call.
And with that Wes I'll turn over to you for final (59:04) comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Thanks Steve.
I'll just wrap-up by saying what I said at the beginning of the call.
Our team across the company is absolutely focused on performance and that focus and commitment is really serving our shareholders our customers and our employees really really well.
And I'm very very proud of what our team is doing and how they are getting it done.
We certainly appreciate all of you joining us on our call today and we also appreciate your continuing interest in our company.
Thanks for joining us everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
My name is Kaitlin and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Treasurer and Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Kaitlin and welcome to Northrop Grumman's third quarter 2015 conference call.
Before we start please understand the matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainties which are detailed in today's earnings release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
Matters discussed on today's call may also include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled in today's earnings release which is posted to our website.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Ken Bedingfield our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
I want to start our call today by expressing how proud we are that the Air Force has chosen to partner with Northrop Grumman on our nation's new Stealth Bomber.
Our selection continues a 35-year partnership that has provided the world's most advanced long range strike systems.
As the company that developed and delivered the B-2 Spirit Stealth Bomber we look forward to providing the Air Force a highly capable and affordable next generation bomber.
Our nation urgently needs this capability to maintain military superiority and power projection for decades to come.
The Air Force has made the right decision.
Our team has the resources in place to successfully execute this important program and we are ready to get to work.
I want to thank our team across the company that have worked so hard on this program for so many years.
This team is fully committed to building the next bomber for our nation and they are truly an exceptional group of individuals.
I know that many of you have questions about the program.
Given the classified nature of the program we will not be answering questions about it on our call today.
The Air Force released a set of information regarding the program yesterday when it announced its decision.
We will not be in a position today to provide any more information than has been released by the Air Force.
So in our Q&amp;A session we will decline to address the program in any more detail.
This win also validates that we are successfully positioning Northrop Grumman for innovation and affordability in support of our customers' missions.
Part of that positioning for the future is the organizational realignment we announced earlier this month.
We announced a realignment of our businesses into three sectors effective January 1 2016.
Our new structure is aimed at better focusing our innovation and affordability efforts to provide our customers enhanced mission capability at a reduced cost.
By more effectively aligning and aggregating our product and services businesses we are enabling greater synergy in the way we operate and we are enhancing our ability to develop produce sustain and upgrade our products over their lifecycle.
The majority of our Information Systems portfolio focuses on sophisticated systems architecture and engineering including both advanced software and hardware capabilities.
These elements will be combined with our Electronic Systems portfolio to create a more integrated platform to support development of new capabilities for our military and intelligence customers around the globe.
Kathy Warden currently President of Information Systems will lead the new Mission Systems sector.
The services elements of Information Systems will be combined with Technical Services to create a new sector Technology Services.
Over the years we have deemphasized commodity-based services and we focused our existing TS sector on lifecycle support and modernization of systems and platforms as well as advanced training.
The IS services portfolio will complement this work as it also focuses on advanced support and services.
Technology Services will better integrate the breadth of our capabilities to enable us to provide differentiated and value-added offerings to the U.S.
and to our allies.
Chris Jones currently President of Technical Services will lead our Technology Services sector.
Tom Vice will continue to lead Aerospace Systems.
Tom and the AF team have a tremendous set of current programs and new opportunities.
Gloria Flach will become Northrop Grumman's Chief Operating Officer with responsibility for operational excellence and risk management and our corporate-wide activities for programs engineering global supply chain and quality.
Gloria Kathy Tom and Chris will all continue to report to me.
I'd like to address some of the speculation that this realignment is perhaps aimed at separating our services businesses.
It is not.
We've demonstrated that we actively manage our portfolio and we continually evaluate our portfolio to assess value creation opportunities.
We have over the last several years reshaped the content of our service offerings to reposition us at the higher end of the market.
Our margin rates show that those efforts have been successful.
The reorganization of our services business is intended to strengthen this capability within our company.
So we're happy with our portfolio today and look forward to the work that Chris and his expanded team will do to further improve our position.
Looking at third quarter results our team delivered another solid performance.
Third quarter EPS increased 22% reflecting strong operating income and the benefit of share repurchases.
Share repurchases continue to be an integral part of our capital deployment strategy.
In May of 2013 we announced a goal of retiring 25% of our then outstanding shares by the end of 2015.
I'm pleased to report that we have achieved that goal shortly after the end of the quarter.
We completed the planned repurchases at an average price of approximately $125 per share.
Since initiating share repurchases in 2003 we have reduced our share count by about 50% at an average price of approximately $75.
Our capital deployment strategy with share repurchases being a significant component has successfully created shareholder value.
During the quarter our board approved a new $4 billion share repurchase authorization.
At the end of the third quarter $4.6 billion remained on our share repurchase authority.
With this new authorization share repurchase will continue to be an important element our strategy but we do not intend to announce a new target for share count reduction.
In 2013 we took the approach of announcing a specific target because we were going to the debt markets to support achievement of that target.
Going forward we will return to our prior approach of assessing our repurchases from time-to-time in the context of our capital deployment strategy which has not changed.
That strategy is to invest in our businesses manage our balance sheet and return cash to shareholders through a competitive dividend and share repurchases.
Our first priority of course continues to be investing in our business.
We have increased our IRAD and capital spending to support our customers' needs for innovation and affordability.
We also have greater visibility into a more favorable opportunity set ahead of us.
We believe our portfolio is well aligned for long-term profitable growth.
The global environment of continually expanding and evolving security threats drives an urgent need on the part of our customers for innovative and affordable technologies.
We are investing to support their missions and we are encouraged by the news that the administration and congressional leadership have reached the two-year budget deal that provides some stability for federal budgeting and helps to minimize the threat of a government shutdown or a debt-ceiling showdown.
This type of action is needed to provide stability and to support our customers' ability to plan for and properly execute our nation's security strategy.
We hope that Congress quickly implements this agreement as we are rapidly approaching a debt-ceiling deadline and the CR we are working under expires on December 11.
In summary it was a solid quarter.
Based on year-to-date results we now expect 2015 sales between $23.6 billion and $23.8 billion.
We are increasing earnings per share guidance to between $9.70 and $9.80.
And we are refining our cash from operations guidance to approximately $2.6 billion and we expect free cash flow of approximately $2 billion.
So now I'll turn the call over to Ken for a more detailed discussion of our third quarter results and our guidance.
Ken? Thanks Wes.
I want to thank the team for a job well done and also congratulate our team on the LRS-B win.
It was another good quarter.
Overall we continue to perform well with sales comparable to last year's third quarter and strong margin rates.
Earnings per share grew 22% driven by strong performance and a 10% decline in weighted average share count.
I would note that our third quarter results do not reflect the impact of the tax methods change we discussed on last quarter's call and previously expected to occur in the third quarter.
The IRS notified us of their acceptance of the change this month and those impacts will occur in the fourth quarter.
Turning to sector results.
We had strong performance across the board.
Aerospace Systems sales for the quarter and year-to-date are up about 1% and reflect higher F-35 and E-2D production volume as well as higher volume for our unmanned programs.
These increases were partially offset by declines in a number of other programs the largest of which was the F/A-18 as deliveries on this program continue to ramp down.
Aerospace third quarter and year-to-date operating income and margin rates are lower than last year due to one-time items in last year's third quarter which added about $90 million of operating income.
You recall that last year's AS operating income included $75 million for settlements and also benefited from lower CAS pension cost due to the HATFA legislation.
Based on year-to-date results we expect full year Aerospace sales of approximately $10 billion the high end of our prior guidance and we continue to expect a margin rate of about 12%.
Moving to Electronic Systems third quarter sales increased 2% and on a year-to-date basis are comparable to last year.
Third quarter operating income was consistent with last year.
The slight decline in operating margin rate is due to the HATFA driven reduction of last year's pension cost which increased margin rates in last year's third quarter.
Although year-to-date operating income is somewhat lower than last year due to the mix of mature production and cost-type development work operating margin rate continues to be strong.
We expect full year ES sales of approximately $6.9 billion the high end of our prior range and we continue to expect ES operating margin rate in a low to mid 15% range.
Information Systems third quarter and year-to-date sales were down about 3% consistent with our expectations.
Third quarter operating margin rate was comparable to the prior year period.
The sector continues to perform very well and is maintaining strong operating income and margin rates.
Based on year-to-date performance we expect IS sales of approximately $6 billion the midpoint of our prior guidance range and we now expect an operating margin rate of approximately 10%.
Technical Services third quarter sales rose 1% and year-to-date sales are up 3%.
Third quarter operating income was comparable to last year with a decline in operating margin rate due in part to lower income from an unconsolidated joint venture.
For the year we continue to expect sales of about $2.8 billion with a margin rate of approximately 9%.
Turning to consolidated results.
Segment operating margin rate was 12.1% in the quarter and 12.4% year-to-date.
Operating margin rate for the quarter was 13.3% and 13.4% year-to-date.
Operating income and margin rates for both periods reflect lower segment operating income offset by higher net FAS/CAS pension adjustment and lower unallocated corporate expense.
The increase in net FAS/CAS is driven by the impact of HATFA legislation last year.
As I mentioned earlier third quarter corporate unallocated expense does not include the impact of the tax methods change which will now increase fourth quarter unallocated corporate expense for state taxes by approximately $45 million.
In addition to this state tax item when we complete our state tax reporting process later this year we expect it to result in a lower future state effective tax rate.
This would reduce our state deferred tax asset by between $15 million and $40 million with $25 million being the most likely.
This amount will flow through corporate unallocated.
Based on these tax items and our historical pattern of higher unallocated at the end of the year we expect 2015 unallocated corporate expense of approximately $200 million.
As a result of the methods change approved by the IRS this month we expect our fourth quarter tax rate will move above the statutory rate due to lower deductions for domestic production activities.
For the year we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 31.5% absent an R&amp;D tax credit extension for 2015.
We continue to expect a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 192 million for the full year.
Looking at our EPS guidance for the year we now expect EPS between $9.70 and $9.80.
The higher range reflects strong year-to-date performance offset by the additional state tax impacts on unallocated corporate expense.
Turning to cash.
Before discretionary pension contributions year-to-date cash from operations totaled $854 million and free cash flow totaled $520 million.
Year-to-date cash is lower than last year due to timing of program collections.
We now expect cash from operations of approximately $2.6 billion and free cash flow of approximately $2 billion.
This considers $600 million in capital spending versus our prior estimate of $700 million.
Just a quick update on pension items.
Based on the demographics update completed in the third quarter we are increasing our net FAS/CAS pension adjustment to income of approximately $335 million.
Net plan asset returns through the end of last week were a bit above 1%.
However assuming 2015 plan asset returns of zero and a 4.5% discount rate for 2016 we would expect net FAS/CAS pension income of approximately $240 million versus our prior 2016 estimate of $475 million.
Under these assumptions FAS essentially doubles to about $600 million and our CAS estimate increases by about $75 million to $840 million.
Our prior estimate was based on our actual 2015 discount rate and expected plan asset returns of 8%.
We have a couple of months to go before we finalize our assumptions but further for your modeling purposes a 100 basis point change in return on assets impacts FAS expense by approximately $50 million and a 25 basis point change in our discount rate impacts FAS by about $70 million.
Steve I think we're ready for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Ken.
As a courtesy each participant should limit themselves to a single one-part question and return to the queue for additional questions.
Kaitlin? Your first question comes from line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks good afternoon.
Congratulations on...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Myles Hey Myles.
Inc.</span></strong> ...those contracts.
Wes on the reorganization can you talk to the financial side the logic of if there is cost savings and if there is cost to do it and also any go-to-market strategy that's also underlying the reorganization? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Yeah.
The go-to-market strategy I think is the most important part of this so I'll address it first.
As we've looked at the vector that we see our customer needs traveling along and we project forward on that vector it's pretty clear that we're going to continue to see a convergence of capabilities that are needed in all of the solutions that our customers are going to be requesting or requiring.
I think it's a sort of a natural vector of technology if you will.
So we want to make sure that as we think about our internal structure there isn't anything that is in anyway inhibiting of course as a first priority addressing those technology opportunities and capabilities.
But more importantly we really want to make sure the structure that we have actually enables our company to be in a great position for creating those future offerings.
And that's really the underlying strategy here and it's offerings both in terms of the products themselves as well as the service offerings which are increasingly complex because of the nature of the capabilities that are being fielded.
So that's the underlying strategy around the reorganization.
It better integrates and aligns our capabilities in the directions that we see our customer community going for the long-term.
And I will tell you it's generated a lot of excitement within our company.
I think our employees have been seeing this vector and are delighted to see the opportunity to take a fresh look at how we are coming together as an enterprise to ensure that we are very very well positioned for the future.
The second part of it I'll let Ken address in a bit more detail.
Let me just say at a top level generally in our industry our cost savings translate into affordability advantages over the long-term.
But Ken let me ask you to comment specifically on this situation.
Yeah.
Myles appreciate the question.
And we certainly do expect that the realignment will result in cost savings over the longer term.
I will remind that we don't give guidance on 2016 or beyond at this point and we will give 2016 guidance in January.
And at that point we should be able to further address longer term impacts.
But we do not expect a material impact on cost for 2015 and I will say that any cost impact is reflected in our guidance.
Kaitlin next question? Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hello everyone.
Good afternoon and congratulations.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Jason.
Thank you.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I just have a bigger picture question.
One of the things that we heard from the Secretary of the Air Force last night in the press conference was the idea of open architectures and mission packages that can be competed.
So I know you're not going to talk about Long-Range Strike but I was wondering if you could talk about those comments in general as it impacts the industry.
What's DoD trying to do with all of this and what risks and opportunities does this present for industry and more specifically Northrop? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're excited about the vector that the Air Force is taking on open mission systems and open architecture in general.
And in fact Northrop Grumman for many years has been strong proponent of that architectural strategy.
And primarily because we see it as an important avenue for the insertion of technology over the lifecycle of any system be it a platform or any other system actually that our customers are procuring.
When you have an open architecture and think about it in terms of some of the capabilities we all purchase on the commercial marketplace.
In the cases where there really is an open architecture it's much easier to get the apps you need.
It's easier to do the upgrades that you need and over time it makes the capability that you initially acquire sustainable for a much longer period of time.
So it becomes really an avenue for innovation and creates new engines of innovation within the defense community.
And I think we're all excited about that because we know that we need those avenues of innovation to ensure that we maintain long-term technological superiority.
So I think this is all integrated into the broader strategic thrust that we see taking place with our DoD customer and quite frankly with our intelligence community customers as well that we need to make sure that we're doing the right things today with respect to the fundamental way that we're building things so that we can take full advantage of this very rapid pace of technology progression take full advantage of that in our security systems as we go forward.
So we are strong proponents of it.
It keeps us all on our toes because it takes off the table a lot of what historically had been proprietary systems that sort of locked one contractor into a particular configuration for a longer period of time.
It creates a more ongoing competitive environment.
But I think that's healthy.
I think it's healthy for our industry.
I think it's healthy for technology innovation and I think it's really healthy for national security.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Doug.
Hi.
I'm going to ask a very similar question to one I asked last quarter which over the last few years and you just talked about it.
You've completed the repurchase of 25% of your shares and that's been one of the great things that Northrop Grumman's done.
But as we look at the balance sheet today the cash on hand dropped below $2 billion a quarter ago and now it's down below $1.3 billion.
Just trying to picture how this plays out in the future.
What is the level of cash that you'd like to have on hand in general? And does this impact at all the way you think about share repurchases in the future? Thanks Doug for the question.
I would say that we have been burning down our cash balance as we've been executing on the repurchase program.
And we have had some delays in cash collections in the first three quarters of 2015.
We've historically had a significant chunk of our cash collections coming in the fourth quarter of the year and we see that trend coming again this year.
So I think you'll see that we will build up additional cash balances between now and at the end of the year.
We certainly like to maintain enough cash on the balance sheet for liquidity purposes and I probably won't throw a number as to what that is but I believe we'll be strong generators of cash going forward.
I believe we'll generate a fair amount of cash in the fourth quarter and I think as Wes mentioned earlier you can think of us as sticking with the same strategy in terms of deployment of cash and in particularly investing in the business maintaining the balance sheet and then returning excess cash through a competitive dividends and through share repurchases and that doesn't change.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think Ken said it well.
I mean the focus for us number one is generating cash.
And so we're very focused on that across the enterprise.
And secondly being really smart on how we deploy it.
And we think a component of being really smart is to make sure that we've got good cash return to our shareholders as part of the broader (25:25) equation.
Your next question in queue comes from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good afternoon everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Noah.
Congrats on the big win yesterday; we were happy for you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Any initial thoughts you'd be willing to provide on the direction of 2016 revenue and the segment EBIT margin compared to the current year? No I would say that again we are updating our guidance today for 2015 for the full year of 2015 and we're not going to give guidance on 2016 until January.
Okay.
Ken are you able to elaborate on where your underrunning the CapEx plan and any directional comments on what the trajectory looks like on a multi-year period? I don't think I would be able to comment on particularly where the CapEx is lower.
I would say it's just been lower across the board.
And in terms of longer term again we don't give guidance past 2015 but I will say and I think we've said in the past that we expect our CapEx to stay elevated for a number of years and that continues to be our plan.
That being said we do also expect to generate a lot of cash in the coming years as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with RBC Capital.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning afternoon or whichever time you think it is there.
Afternoon; sorry.
It is afternoon.
Wes congratulations again on the win.
(27:34) President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks very much.
...talk about detail.
But I was wondering looking say more broadly if you thought that this may lead to some rejiggering of the industrial base in military aerospace and whether you might be interested in participating in that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's always hard to project how the vector of the industrial base will go over time.
As I've said before I do not believe that we are in a situation that perhaps we were in in the 1990s where single program decisions can cause precipitous actions by any of the players in the industrial base.
We are today in a very different configuration because of the consolidation that occurred through the 1990s and the early part of the last decade.
So I think that some of the commentary or speculation out there is perhaps rooted in an old way of thinking about our industry.
We're in a very different place today.
So I wouldn't be particularly focused on single event triggers.
But that said we're in a industry like every other industry that continues to shape continues to change and over time I think it's really important that the industry itself figures out what is the best way of providing its products and services to its customer community.
So I think that's the context for thinking about the world on a go forward basis nothing is every stagnant.
To think that it is would be putting your head in the ground.
And it's important that the context of how to best serve the customers is front and center and of course the context of shareholder value.
So those are the considerations I think that will come into play as we continue to look at the future.
Another really important avenue of thinking in that regard though to some of the earlier questions which I thought were really good questions goes to what's the vector of technology and what are the customer needs going to be.
And as we are participants in a very high-technology industry here in aerospace and defense the vector of technology has a lot to do with what the shape of the industry should look like just as it does in every other technology-driven industry which is increasingly so many industries around the globe today.
So simply a view that things will continue to shape and change and it's important that companies that have a bright view of their future like we do think about that broadly and are proactive in that that regard.
Your next question in queue comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Yes.
Good morning.
I wanted to get two quick ones.
Wes on the reorganization you had operated with four sectors and no COO now we got three sectors and a COO.
Should I conclude anything about how long you intend to stay around as CEO from that announcement? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> George let me say this.
I am excited about our new organizational structure.
We constantly evaluate our organization and I think you've seen over the course of my tenure that we've made a number of organizational changes.
And we make those adjustments from time to time based on the approach we think's going to enhance our overall performance for our shareholders our customers and our employees.
And as we looked at this transition into a three-sector configuration it became apparent to me that having a COO could be really helpful particularly given the number of opportunities that we're looking at as we go forward.
And that thought was also enhanced by the fact that we have such an exceptional leader in the person of Gloria to take on the role.
So I am just excited as I can be about having Gloria come and join our team here at the corporate office to play such an integral role in helping us to move forward.
Your question went to a little bit I think in regards to was there any implication there about me and my role.
Let me just say this I am so honored to have the privilege of working with the amazing people in this company.
And that is something that I just absolutely enjoy thoroughly.
So no one should read anything into the organizational changes that we announced with respect to my future plans.
It's again from our perspective collectively this organizational approach is the approach we all collectively believe really positions us best to perform because that's our number one priority in our company is to execute and perform.
And also to be able to effectively realize the opportunities that we see both here in the U.S.
and around the globe.
So we're all excited about moving into this new operating structure and really excited about the future opportunities it represents for our company.
Next question comes from the line of Seth Seifman with JPMorgan.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Ken you talked a little bit about delays in cash collection.
I wonder if you could elaborate on that a little more and if it's just kind of a timing issue or we've heard that from another company as well and whether it represents a different way of thinking on the part of your customer? Thanks for the question Seth.
I would say that for the most part we're dealing with a timing issue in terms of cash.
We've had some protracted negotiations that have taken a little bit longer to get closed.
And we have seen some changes in cash terms from our customers and that's having a little bit of an impact in terms of delaying the cash flow on some of our programs.
But I would say for the most part it's really driven by just some protracted negotiations and a few things that have moved out to the right on us.
We continue to believe that our full year guidance for both cash from ops and free cash flow is where it will end up.
So I think we'll make it back in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey David.
Just one clarification question I guess for our modeling purposes and then I have another question.
Will the LRS-B program be reported within Aerospace Systems on a go forward basis? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So I think I can safely say that Aerospace will report LRS-B when it finds itself in our numbers.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then beyond that just think about Aerospace Systems going forward can you just talk about maybe from a revenue perspective and a margin perspective the kind of transition that's going on there with F/A-18 coming down F-35 ramping up E-2D ramping up kind of where are we in that transition both from a revenue and margin perspective? Thanks.
So David again not giving guidance beyond 2015 but I will say that a lot of moving parts in the company and certainly a lot of moving parts at AS.
You mentioned some of the things F/A-18 yes is coming down F-35 E-2D ramping up.
Some international opportunities starting to ramp as well.
So a lot moving parts.
Some of it is more mature production some of it is developmental.
And I would say that we always strive to perform and deliver higher margins and I think you'll see us continue to do that but I wouldn't want to give you a specific number for sales or margin beyond 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
...very much.
Wes the change that you talk about in the organizational structure can only be done if you also get your customer to work with you and I'm going to use the JSTARS program if I may just for a paradigm for half a second.
You clearly have a compelling solution from what we can see you're ahead of schedule on it you could provide the product tomorrow or one would think come darn near close.
It clearly saves the customer a lot of money in operations and improves his capability.
In the commercial world it's a no-brainer what's going to happen.
In the world of the Pentagon operations they talk about better buying power 4.0 or whatever which is just a bureaucratic solution.
So how do you break through these barriers so that in fact you can operate with more speed and agility and deliver both value to your customers your employees and your shareholders? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Howard I would just say as always your question is very perceptive.
The challenge that we collectively face in our defense community is the challenge of sometimes inertia that's driven by the budgetary instability that our customers are having to deal with.
I will tell you that when I get out and interact with the seniors in our defense community and the juniors in our defense community that there is an appetite and a strong desire to see new capabilities introduced much more quickly.
And this inability to plan that we've been stuck with now for several years is of course impacting that in a negative way.
So as we think about this repositioning of our company we are taking the view that of course we've got to continue to perform and execute in the framework of the acquisition arena in which we are operating today.
So there's nothing about the reorganization that slows our ability in any way in fact I think it actually helps even in the current acquisition environment that we have today.
But we like others in our industry I would say are anticipating that things are going to change again.
And we see some early indicators of that.
The work that's being done in each of the services to think in a different way about how some of the technologies and capabilities can be introduced it's not at the rate any of us including those in the services would like to see happen but it's happening.
And it's happening in the intelligence community as well.
And so as those of us who have been involved in our industry for a long time can generally forecast a little bit when you start to see the beginning of the things happening they're on that vector.
And again we'd all like to push faster if we could and I think generally speed is one of our challenges collectively but it's going to go in this direction.
And we want to make sure that we are out in front of it.
We want to make sure that customers are never in a place where they're having to pull us along when it comes to technology and architectures and systems.
We want to be in front and helping them and see the future.
And that's exactly what the structure is organized around.
What I experienced I think a little bit more directly to your question with respect to the how you do it.
I think what you have to do is you actually have to put the new thinking on the table as alternatives.
And it has to get introduced early enough into the acquisition process where they're seen as viable alternatives alternatives that can be pursued with manageable risk.
And that's really the challenge that we all have is to get some new thinking on the table get it matured in a manner that the risk can be understood and be seen as managed and in reality be managed and therefore enable some different acquisition approaches.
And I think there's great enthusiasm for this.
And hopefully – and this is I think the hardest part – hopefully we'll get to a place in the budgetary environment where we're actually enabled to support our servicemen and women at the speed of technology that increasingly our adversaries are doing now every single day.
So I think it's actually a national security imperative that we get this on the right track.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Yes.
Let me join those Wes in congratulating you a terrific job.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Cai.
Given that the decision came out yesterday after the markets closed is it fair for me to assume that it is not included in your guidance for this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We gave guidance today not yesterday.
So our guidance today is our guidance.
So I would say it that way.
But we obviously have had plenty of time to think our way through all of the implications and that's where we are.
Okay.
And so it is included – I think you mentioned to David that it is included in Aerospace.
It would be – if and when everything moves forward it will be included in Aerospace.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
That's correct.
That's the home of the B-2 Spirit Stealth Bomber that's the right place to put the new one.
Your next question in queue comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Hi Sam.
How are you? All right.
I'm going to try and sneak two in which was just one Ken have you mentioned in the past what the CAS growth looks like into 2017 just so that if we use the new baseline for 2016 to just think about that? And then secondly just in two of your segments both Aerospace and Electronics you're coming in at the high end.
So I'm just trying to think about what you might have I guess factored differently.
What's coming in forward or is this being pulled from 2016 or is something else coming in a little bit better? Okay.
Sam in terms of the CAS growth question we did – on our prepared remarks earlier we updated our 2016 CAS estimate and I mentioned $75 million increase for 2016 based on where we see the market today in terms of returns and in terms of discount rate.
We are not updating our guidance beyond 2016 but last year we did have 2015 2016 and 2017 on our Investor Relations webpage but we are not updating that at this point in time.
In terms of your second question about AS and ES coming in at the high end of the range I think at this point it's really just better visibility into what we see the year is going to look like.
We've had some risks in the plan that have been burned down.
So nine months into the year I think really it's just about better visibility.
We're satisfied with the volume as it's coming in at all of our sectors and looking forward to completing the year and getting ready for 2016.
Your next question in queue comes from Richard Safran with Buckingham.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon.
And once again congratulations.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> You know what: it's not – it's somewhat related to LRS.
Wes last quarter we talked about things like JSTARS recap T-X UCLASS things like that et cetera.
Given the resource demand for the LRS-B program I just wanted to know if this win maybe precludes you from bidding on other work near term.
What I'm just trying to wonder here is if you think your plate is full with this contract.
Any color you could provide on how you're looking at new opportunities now would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it's a really good question and we are a very responsible company in that regard.
We take a careful look at our capacity to take on anything that we're bidding and we will never go out and make a bid on something where we have any reservations about our ability to execute.
And so we thought a lot about this actually now over the last several years: how do we think broadly about that range of opportunities? And our conclusion is that we do have significant capacity in large part because of sort of the natural transition that we've seen in development to production.
And in fact I will tell you that one of the concerns on the downside of some of these programs has been that if they slip too long or were delayed too long what the implications would be not only in our company but in other companies around the inherent design capacity that's such a national asset.
So take for example F-35 we've been very very active in the overall design activities on F-35 both in our role in the center fuselage as well as our role in sensors and in comms and navigation equipment and we've been shifting that well into production now.
So the design capacity from that activity has been available.
Look at E-2D E-2D in a similar state where we had been rather substantially focused on design activity for some time and we've moved E-2D successfully into production.
Triton we are now going through the test program so our teams that had been focused on our Triton programs from a design perspective are tailing off on the design side of the activity.
So when we go through our portfolio and look at these transitions from design to production which are great that's exactly what we want that's the reason we take these programs on so we actually produce things.
But when we look at that capacity that we have inherent in our company we see substantial capacity.
So we are very interested and very eager to continue to support our customers in pursuit of programs like Joint STARS and the new trainer and UCLASS across the board.
And we think it's important that we continue to leverage that very extensive design and manufacturing production capacity that we have in the company to support these activities because we all know when we are operating with our capacity very productively employed we're going to be operating much more efficiently and that efficiency brings affordability.
So we continue to be very excited about those new opportunities as well.
Your next question is queue comes from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
Hi thanks for getting me in appreciate it.
Have you guys gotten a chance to have an early read on whether or not some of the language included in the pending budget legislation is going to have an impact on some of the pension assumptions? I know you said that you're not going to talk about 2017 FAS/CAS just yet that's fine.
But just in terms of the language in the budget itself I believe there's some language relating to pension smoothing.
Does that going to impact any of the HATFA legislation or the FAS/CAS timing or anything like that or is this sort of unrelated to how FAS/CAS rolls through for you guys? Thanks for the questions Hunter.
I think that – we have looked at that language there's a couple things in there that would impact us.
One being the pension smoothing and the other being the change in the rate that you pay for the – the premiums paid.
We don't believe the impact of the premiums is material to us going forward and as far as the pension smoothing haven't fully analyzed it but I think it's good news and likely results in funding that would be required in the out years moving out another year.
Next question in queue comes from Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Well good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Rob.
Hi Rob.
Guess I should say good afternoon and congratulations.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Rob.
Wes I wanted to go back to something you addressed early on in the monologue which is the services side and your commitment to the business in the context of the realignment.
And what I wanted to get at here we know you've de-commoditized the business but what are some of your objectives here? Is it more of a revenue a cross-selling opportunity to drive a higher growth rate in that business as the budget inflects? Or is there at the same time a margin opportunity does the combination allow you to get to double-digit margins consistently going forward with these two businesses combined? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a good question.
Yeah and let me just say it is primarily a strategy driven decision in that we see this class of service and solution offerings that often go with it on the backend of program deployments when we're thinking about modernization and other activities.
We see this as integral to our offerings and the way we do business with our customers.
We never want to be in a place where we're unable in some way to support our customers post-delivery nor do we want to be in a spot where we have customers who are seeking some of these higher end services that ultimately over time translate the thinking into what the next systems will be.
We never want to be in a spot where we can't support them.
So your question's right on target because it is a really important part of our overall company strategy to be in the high end of the services market.
We think it's important for any company that's going to be a full provider to those customers to have that capability and to be active in the marketplace.
And as we look at where those service offerings are going as we look into the future we think it's going to be important to have that breadth of capability that we'll have in our new Technology Services organization that encompasses both the hardware and the software domains.
And again this is thinking about more the integrated offering that we'll be providing.
Now we are going to be constantly challenging the team on their margin rates because we are participating in that higher end of the marketplace.
It's clearly an important focus of this new Technology Services organization to generate the margin rates that we see are attainable in that space.
As Ken said earlier we're not going to guide for our new configuration yet we'll do that at the beginning of the year.
But just as we have challenged all of our businesses to compare themselves to the marketplace that they are strategically positioned in we'll be doing that with the services part of the portfolio and incentivizing the team to do better than what the market suggests they should be able to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Hi guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Pete.
Hey Pete.
Just wondered if (52:57) you'd give us your updated cash tax expectations for 2015 and then also maybe your cash pension initial look for 2016? Thanks.
Pete I probably wouldn't want to give the cash tax number.
It's not a number that we guide to.
I will say that we do expect our 2015 effective tax rate at 31.5%.
I will say that the methods change that we implemented this year is something we did in order to lower our cash taxes.
And we see that as helping us on that perspective and I think you'll see the number when we get to the end of the year.
Your next question in queue comes from Joseph DeNardi with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Joe.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Wes I'm wondering if you could just talk a little bit about the focus on the international business just in terms of what the pipeline looks over the next 12 months maybe remind us how much of the business right now is international? What the bookings have been year-to-date and maybe how much of the backlog is international? Just some more color there would be helpful? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
That continues to be a really important part of our – not only our business today but our future in our company.
And I've mentioned on some of our calls in the past the importance of international to us is a core element of our strategy.
Today it's right around 15% for 2015.
And as we think about the opportunity set that's out there I think I've mentioned many of these in the past we're especially excited about the growth vector that we see in Aerospace Systems internationally both our unmanned systems Global Hawk and then over time Triton being the standouts there but also with some of our manned platforms and in particular E-2D.
So if I look at – let me go back to the unmanned for just a moment as we look forward we're excited about the opportunity in Japan on Global Hawk and Australia continues to be very very interested and positive on Triton.
We are seeing some increasing interest in Triton from our European allies.
So we believe there is a very good trajectory internationally in our unmanned business.
And E-2D Japan is probably the first up with respect to our international opportunity set on E-2D and I think that's going to be a really important part of it.
So we like the growth trajectory the potential that we see for AS internationally.
We also see really good opportunities around the globe in what we now call our ES and IS businesses which are going to be coming together into our new Mission Systems business at the beginning of next year.
With respect to the Electronics component of that I think you're familiar with many of the things that we've been doing with radars around the globe.
And when we're looking at the F-16 fleet in particular the SABR radar capability that we now are moving out with several parties already.
We are seeing continuing growth in the interest in that.
With respect to our current Information Systems business we also see a lot of opportunities whether we're talking about C4I or some of the air defense capabilities that IS has.
TS is also very active internationally and we have a long-standing global footprint in our Technical Services business and we see opportunities for growth there both in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific that we're pursing quite aggressively.
So this is a really important part of our business an important part of the way that we are working to create our future.
And I've been delighted with the focus that we've been able to achieve across the company in finding the right avenues for growth internationally.
Hey Kaitlin.
I think we're going to do one more.
Your next question in queue comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Yes I was just wanting Ken there was a big drop in EACs in both Aerospace and Electronics now does that have to do with the gain last year? Maybe you could explain a little bit further? Thanks for the question George.
I will say that we've been working to get more of our EAC adjustments into what we kind of refer to as our baseline.
So as EAC adjustments occur they get into your run rate margin.
And so we've seen some of that.
Our baseline margin rate without EAC adjustments has been going up which I think is a positive thing.
And in terms of the comparison from last year to this year I would say I don't think there is anything particularly significant.
It's just timing of items that hit in last year and items this year as well as the increased baseline earnings.
We look at our business really in terms of our operating margin and operating margin rate and not with respect to what our EAC adjustments are.
Just thinking back to the comparison I guess the biggest impact last year to this year in terms of EAC adjustments would be the HATFA legislation last year that resulted in reduced pension expense for our sectors last year and therefore higher earnings and those EAC adjustments occurred in third quarter.
But other than that I think it's just timing across the sector and continued good performance in our baseline EAC margins.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes for closing comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> All right.
Thanks Steve.
I just wanted to wrap up by saying I'm very proud of how our team is performing.
I think this quarter demonstrates another good quarter of very solid performance and represents the focus that we have across our enterprise on ensuring that we're doing the right things to continue to drive sustainable performance well into the future.
And I'll also wrap up by saying what I said earlier in the call congrats to our Bomber team just outstanding amazing outcome here that we're also so very proud of.
We really appreciate all of you joining on to our call today.
And thank you for your continuing interest in our company.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Northrop Grumman's Fourth Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
My name is Brent and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Steve Movius Treasurer and Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Movius please proceed.
Thanks Brent and welcome to Northrop Grumman's fourth quarter and year end 2015 conference call.
We provided supplemental information in the form of a PowerPoint presentation that you can access on our web site.
First a reminder that our 2015 financial results are reported in four sectors our new three sector configuration is effective as of January 1 2016.
We will be filing an 8-K in April which will present historical financial information in our new sector structure.
Also please understand that matters discussed on today's call constitute forward-looking statements pursuant to Safe Harbor provisions of Federal Securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which are detailed in today's press release and our SEC filings.
These risk factors may cause actual company results to differ materially.
Matters discussed on today's call might also include non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled in the supplemental PowerPoint presentation.
On the call today are Wes Bush our Chairman CEO and President; and Ken Bedingfield our CFO.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Wes.
Thanks Steve.
Hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Well I want to start by congratulating the entire Northrop Grumman team on another outstanding year.
In addition to excellent financial results we took some major steps to position the company for the future.
We look forward to building on 2015 successes as we continue our focus on performance portfolio and capital deployment and as we take on new opportunities in 2016.
Strong operational performance and effective cash deployment supported another year of value creation for shareholders customers and employees.
Solid margin rates from all four of our businesses combined to generate a segment operating margin rate of 12.4% and earnings per share of $10.39 a 7% increase.
Free cash flow before pension contributions was $2 billion and we returned $3.8 billion to our shareholders.
In total we repurchased 19.3 million shares for $3.2 billion this year reduced our weighted average share count by approximately 10% and completed our goal of retiring 60 million shares by the end of 2015.
At year end $4.3 billion remained on our share repurchase authorization.
Continued strong cash generation also supported our 12th consecutive annual dividend increase.
We raise the quarterly dividend by 14% and paid shareholder $603 million in dividends in 2015.
Total shareholder return for the year was slightly more than 30%.
The first priority of our capital deployment strategy is to invest in our businesses.
2015 capital spending totaled $471 million and we increased our IRAD investment by 25% to $712 million or 3% of sales and we perceive significant opportunities ahead.
In addition to strong financial results we captured several important awards that position us well going forward.
While LRSB was our most high profile competitive win in 2015 we had several other key strategic awards.
Global Hawk solidified its position as the nation's next generation high altitude ISR platform with a $3.2 billion IDIQ award for development modernization retrofit and sustainment activities.
Congressional notification was completed for Japan's purchase of Global Hawks and we received $437 million in FMS contracts for E2Ds for Japan.
In the mid-altitude long endurance unmanned domain we were selected for phase-3 of turn which is a joint effort between DARPA and the Office of Naval Research to demonstrate a next generation unmanned system for Maritime ISR and strike from small deck naval vessels.
This important win built on the unique naval unmanned capabilities that we demonstrated through programs like UCAS Fire Scout and Triton.
And as many of you know UCAS demonstrated fully autonomous unmanned aerial refueling last year building on prior milestones of autonomous unmanned aircraft carrier take-offs and landings.
Electronic Systems won important U.S.
competitions like SEWIP Block 3and Kirkham.
Both wins demonstrate our success and expanding into market adjacencies.
SEWIP represents our entry into next generation sea-based electronic warfare and Kirkham expands our infrared countermeasures presence into rotary winged aircraft protection.
These wins are domestic programs but they have long term potential for international sales.
Also in Electronic Systems Saber radars were selected for Taiwan to upgrade of its F-16 fleet and we continue to work with Lockheed Martin on other international F-16 upgrade opportunities.
Information Systems won the navy's JCREW award and will provide software programmable jammers to protect the warfighter from device triggered IEDs.
These systems will provide important capabilities to both the Navy and the Air Force.
IS was also competitively awarded a seven year IDIQ contract by the U.K.
government to develop and deliver cyber security solutions in support of data security and information assurance.
And in Technical Services Saudi Arabia awarded one of our joint ventures which is consolidated IPS an approximately $950 million contract for the Ministry of National Guard Training Support.
Year end total backlog was $35.9 billion.
New awards in 2015 totaled $21.3 billion.
Book to bill was strong in IS TS and ES.
Awards in AS are generally lumpy and did not include LRS-B.
And AS and ES awards did not include F-35 LRIPs 9 and 10 other than long lead items.
We continue to capture international opportunities and at year end international awards represented 16% of our total backlog.
As we look ahead we have more stability on the budget front and have better budget environment than we have had in several years.
The bipartisan budget act passed in November raised the statutory limit on the desk ceiling until March 2017 and provided much needed relief on the BCA sequester caps in fiscal years 2016 and 2017.
The Consolidated Appropriations act provided an increase in the procurement accounts and provides welcome funding stability for our customers.
Our programs continue to be well supported with a number of them receiving plus ups.
While we have improved budgetary stability in FY 2016 the Department of Defense faces a shortfall in funding for fiscal 2017.
We look forward to learning more about how this will be addressed when the DoD introduces his FY 2017 budget in the coming weeks.
Turning to guidance for 2016 we expect sales of $23.5 billion to $24 billion with earnings per share of $9.90 to $10.20 and free cash flow of $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion after capital expenditures of $700 million to $1 billion.
Our 2016 guidance is indicative of another year of strong operating performance.
This year we are beginning work on some major new development programs as we transition from a number of legacy production programs in aerospace and electronic systems to new production programs in aerospace emission systems.
And our restricted portfolio continues to grow validating our technology leadership in several domains.
I would note that our guidance assumes that the stop-work order on LRS-B will be lifted in February and that we will begin to ramp-up in performance on this program over the course of the year.
So in summary 2015 was an outstanding year for the company and for our shareholders.
Going forward our priorities remain the same drive strong sustainable performance generate strong cash and effectively deploy that cash and continue to optimize our portfolio to ensure our alignment with global security priorities.
We continue to build on our solid track record and we look forward to continued long term sustainable value creation for our shareholders customers and employees.
So now I will turn the call over to Ken for a more detailed discussion of results and our guidance.
Ken? Thanks Wes and good afternoon everyone.
I want to add my congratulations to our team for their continued outstanding work.
Today I will briefly review 2015 results and then discuss our 2016 guidance.
2015 sales totaled $23.5 billion slightly below our expectations primarily due to reduction in lower margin material sales at Information Systems some of which slipped into 2016.
International sales increased to 14% of sales in 2015 an increase of approximately 10% over 2014 even with negative foreign exchange impacts.
We expect stable international sales in 2016 as our NATO AGS program ramps down and other international programs ramp-up.
However we expect international opportunities to be an important source of growth for the company over the next several years.
Our businesses performed well and ended the year with a 12.4% segment operating margin rate.
Operating performance this year is comparable to last year considering that 2014 margin included $75 million legal settlement and about $45 million in non-recurring HAFTA benefit.
The year-over-year trends reflect strong performance by all four sectors with particularly strong performance by Information Systems where margin rate increased 70 basis points over last year.
Total operating margin rate for 2015 was 13.1% comparable to 2014.
Higher net FAS/CAS adjustment was offset by an increase in unallocated corporate expenses.
You will recall that last quarter we mentioned fourth quarter unallocated corporate expenses would be higher than last year due to the adoption of a tax method change and other state tax items.
We have strong full year EPS of $10.39 which includes the benefit of a R&amp;D credit.
Turning to cash 2015 was another good year both in absolute dollar and on a per share basis.
Free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions totaled $2 billion and we returned $3.8 billion or $19.75 per share to shareholders through repurchases and dividends.
So it was an outstanding year in terms of creating value for our shareholders.
Looking ahead to 2016 we expect consolidated sales of $23.5 billion to $24 billion with a segment operating margin in the high 11% range.
Turning to sector guidance we expect sales at Aerospace systems to increase to the low $10 billion range.
This reflects a low single digit growth rate and includes higher volume for space and unmanned programs.
In manned military aircraft we will continue to see higher volume for programs like E2D and F-35 which will be partially offset by lower volume for the FA-18.
Our 2016 revenue guidance for Aerospace systems also contemplates modest LRS-B sales assuming the customer issues are noticed to proceed in February.
It also assumes a gradual month-by-month step-up in headcount as engineering on the program gets underway.
We expect a mid-to-high 11% margin rate for aerospace in 2016.
In addition to continued strong performance on our current portfolio of programs our 2016 AS margin rate guidance reflects the booking rate approach on LRS-B that we believe is appropriate for the start of this incentive based development contract.
We will review our booking rate over time including for potential increases as we work to retire risk and realize incentive fee milestones.
For Mission Systems we expect 2016 revenue in the high $10 billion range which is a stable top line.
Our MS sales guidance includes international growth modest declines in some mature programs and some impact from in-theater force reductions.
We expect MS operating margin rate in the mid to high 12% range.
For Technology Services we expect sales in the mid $4 billion range with an operating margin rate of approximately 10%.
Our 2016 sales guidance represents a low single digit sales decline.
Most of that decline is expected in our short cycle and services programs including ICBM program ramp-down.
We expect the decline will be partially offset by international growth.
Consolidated segment operating margin rate is expected to be in the high 11% range reflecting a portfolio of changing business mix with less mature fixed price production revenue.
We expect our total operating margin rate will be approximately 12% after net FAS/CAS pension adjustment of $275 million and unallocated corporate expense of approximately $200 million.
Based on 2015 return on planned assets of negative 1% a discount rate of 4.53% and expected 2016 return on planned assets of 8% 2016 FAS is estimated at $585 million and CAS at $860 million.
For 2017 and 2018 we currently expect CAS expense of approximately $1 billion and $1.1 billion for 2018.
For FAS expense we currently expect $470 million and $400 million for 2017 and 2018 respectively.
And for your modeling purposes holding all other assumptions constant a 25 basis point change in the discount rate results in a change of approximately $70 million in FAS expense and a 100 basis point change in planned asset returns versus our expected rate of return results in a $50 million change in FAS expense while CAS is less sensitive to both.
In aggregate on a GAAP basis the funded status of our plans was 82% at the end of 2015 reflecting the impact of our higher discount rate discretionary contributions in 2015 and actual plan asset returns.
Our qualified plans are 86% funded.
Our required contributions remain minimal about $80 million in 2016 and 2017 increasing to about $125 million in 2018 given our current assumptions.
We expect a tax rate of approximately 30% in 2016 which include the now permanent R&amp;D credit.
Our 2016 earnings per share guidance of $9.90 to $10.20 assumes our weighted average shares are reduced by approximately 6% to about 181 million shares.
We expect 2016 free cash flow before discretionary pension contributions to range between $1.5 billion and $1.8 billion.
Our free cash flow guidance anticipates capital spending of $700 million to $1 billion in 2016.
Capital expenditures in 2015 were lower than originally expected as we actively managed our capital spending to support requirements that slipped into 2016.
In addition to some of our 2015 spending moving into 2016 CapEx will be elevated this year due to increased programmatic requirements as well as the planned purchase of several buildings.
We have leased some of these buildings for many years and now have the opportunity to purchase them.
We expect these purchases to total about $300 million and to support our continued focus on cost reduction affordability and competitiveness.
Our guidance reflects another year of strong operating performance and strong cash generation supportive of the continued investment in our businesses and distribution of cash to our shareholders.
Before we start the Q&amp;A I just want to note that due to the classified nature of the LRS-B program we won't be providing any information beyond what we've said in our prepared remarks.
So we will not be taking any questions on that program.
I think we're ready for Q&amp;A.
Steve? Thanks Ken.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A please note as usual no more than a single question per participant.
Feel free to reenter the queue if you have additional questions.
Brent we're ready to start the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hello Carter.
How are you? Fantastic.
Ken could you help us maybe bridge what moved in and out of Aerospace? I know you added Asuza and took Electronic Attack out.
But to go from 11 to low 10s how should we think about the relative size of the pieces that move there? And then just to add on to that the net margin impact of one versus the other if there's anything of significance there to note.
So Carter just to make sure we're on the same page with in and out you're correct Azusa and Bethpage out.
Think of them as relatively even sized businesses.
In terms of Aerospace 2015 was just over $10 billion $10.004 billion in sales.
As we mentioned we're projecting low 10s for sales in 2016 so low single digit growth at Aerospace.
In terms of margin I wouldn't think of those two businesses as significantly different in terms of margin rates.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And just a quick one on the CapEx on the office buildings $300 million seems like a big amount.
Is this Space Park or something that's high end real estate that we should be thinking that is there or is it just the scale of a lot of buildings? It's not Space Park which is already for the most part owned.
But it is a number of buildings.
And it certainly is a large capital outlay but we do believe over the long term the benefits are such that we'll realize affordability we'll have obviously avoided rent expense and those cash outflows down the road.
So we think it's a good decision buildings that are core to our new three sectors and particularly Mission Systems.
Okay.
Great.
I'll let someone else ask.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Thank you very much.
Wes you talked about a number of new wins during the course of the year whether it's SEWIP or Kirkham or so on.
If we were to look at old versus new what do you figure the percentage of new business is for 2016 versus 2015? So like most years the challenge with new business with the way the appropriations process works and the conversion into sales it takes a little bit of time for the new wins to transition from the win and then of course the appropriation into the actual outlay and the contracting and then converting it into sales.
So of all of those things that I just mentioned as we went through none of them or in aggregate I would say they do not represent a large fraction of our sales in 2016.
Most of these things will manifest in the sales that we'll see in 2017 and beyond.
So I wouldn't venture a guess because it would only be that in terms of the actual percentage.
But I think to get to the general vector of your question it takes a little bit of time to pull those things through but we're pulling hard.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Howard.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Good morning guys.
Wes I saw during the quarter some press about this new Northrop advanced design organization.
And it sounds like a lot of pretty rapid aircraft prototyping efforts stuff like that like the old days.
And I was wondering what's driving that.
Is it connected to the third offense strategy or just what the strategy is there? Yes I appreciate the question.
When we think about the pace of technology and also quite frankly the pace of the threats that our nation faces we've all been frustrated over the last it's more than a decade now at the general slowing that we seem to see and the ability to take good ideas and turn them into reality.
So part of our overall technology and development focus in the Company is focused around speed.
Because speed does matter.
Speed matters to support the war fighter.
Obviously it matters as we're addressing a lot of these emerging threats that we're seeing around the globe.
And we don't have to wait for a procurement program to come out for us to jump into things and to demonstrate that we can move it along a bit more quickly.
We can do it oftentimes ourselves through our internal investments.
And as I noted in my prepared remarks we've been increasing those internal investments.
You pointed out the particular category of what we've been doing on the aircraft side and we are especially proud of that.
We have the ability within the Company to quite rapidly go from conceptual thinking to prototyping and to flying those prototypes so that we can get good early engineering information and turn that around back into the design approach that we're utilizing to bring actual products to offer to our customer community.
And our scale composites organization is a really important part of that process that we utilize in our Company a really innovative and capable group at scale and have a long track record of demonstrating the speed to product if you will in terms of our ability to prototype.
But that's one example of a broader perspective that we have in the Company that the work that we're doing to support our customers needs for the long term needs to not only be at the high end of technology they need to be able to access it quickly and utilize it in a very effective manner.
Wes has DoD given you an indication that they would provide production on ramps for you as part of such an endeavor? So we try and align what we're doing with the vector that we see Do D on.
We don't expect that we just walk in the door and we suddenly get a production turn on.
We see these as very important parts of our ability to be competitive.
And so we're not actually asking DoD for any assurances in turn ons.
We're simply seeing this as the challenge that we collectively have across our industry to make sure that the most advanced technologies are ready quickly for our customers.
Very good.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Good afternoon.
Hello Jason.
I wanted to go back to Howard's question really quickly and see if I couldn't get you to talk a little bit more about the wins in 2015.
Which ones do you think represent the biggest long-term strategic opportunity for the Company? And then maybe just comment on when you might expect some of this development work that you've been successful with over the list couple of years to lead to an inflection point in the growth rate overall for the Company? I appreciate the question.
Last year was phenomenal in terms of our positioning with some of these wins.
And as I noted earlier clearly LRS-B which is currently under protest so we're having to wait for that process to work its way through.
But just in terms of the win itself was a very nice win one that we'd worked hard on for a number of years and we were delighted to see that outcome and to be ready to go and execute that when the time comes.
That will represent a meaningful opportunity a very meaningful opportunity for the Company over time.
But I would not want to overlook many of the other things that happened last year that are so critically important for our long-term positioning in the enterprise.
While Triton was not a win if you will last year last year was such a notable year in terms of its programmatic progress that I think it's important to lay that out.
It's a program that we've been in development on for a number of years.
And the progress that we made last year with the articles that we have flying and the testing that was being done really puts that program in a good place as we move forward this year to be ready to enter into LRIP.
I think that's a really important milestone as we think about these next steps in unmanned capability Triton representing the natural evolution from Global Hawk.
And we see that as an important capability not only for our Navy customer our direct Navy customer on this but I think it represents the high altitude long endurance solution that's going to be sought after by many customers including many of our allies around the globe.
So that is sort of in the unmanned domain as I think a representative program of the big steps.
The work that was done last year at Electronic Systems to break into some new adjacencies I also would point out as really important work notably the wins on SEWIP and Kirkham.
The SEWIP win was one that for us was a long reach into a domain that we think is going to be incredibly important for the future which is all of the work that's being done by the Navy for advanced electronic warfare.
And while over the years in the past we've held a few smaller positions in that regard SEWIP really does position us in that space in a new way.
And we're excited about what that represents and the opportunities that will come with it.
And in Kirkham this was a move into the rotary wing adjacency for aircraft protection.
We've had a long and successful run and have a great future in the fixed wing side of things but to move into the rotary wing side of it as well was another big step forward for us.
So I'll stop there.
I could keep going.
But I would just point those out as some of the clearly significant milestones that we encountered last year that as we go through the course of this year but I would say it's really more into next year as we really begin to ramp up on these things that we'll see an impact on our trajectory.
So the second part of the question was just the inflection point on the growth rate and maybe your last statement there was the answer but 2017 is the year that we begin to see the acceleration in the growth rate? Well we don't guide for 2017.
We're guiding for 2016 so I don't want to get too far out in front of that.
But I would go back to a point I made when Howard asked a similar question which is if you look back over the history of the way that changes in defense spending translate into changes in the industry I'll say it broadly the industry's revenue cycle there's generally a delay.
If you look back at the downturn cycle our most recent experience in that I think the investment accounts peaked right around 2010 and you saw the related sales and industry peak a couple years later and I think it's just that is just a reflection of a natural cycle.
And if you look back in history at the up cycles you'll see a similar situation where it simply takes a little bit of time for the decisions that the Department makes on the new things that it needs to translate all the way from the appropriations cycle through to the outcome cycle.
So I think this is just going to be another one of those situations.
Everyone likes to talk about where are we in the trough.
And I think it's important to remember that the trough has a part in the rear view mirror which was a steep down cycle hopefully in the rear view mirror and then it takes a little bit of time for that transition to come into effect as we climb out of that.
Perfect.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon Myles.
The first one -- or the only one Steve that I have in multiple parts -- is on the side with Aerospace and the growth I think you implied a low single digit.
And I think the only headwind I heard was the F-18 and the size of that I was thinking was a couple hundred million and everything else it sounded like you rattled off Ken was growing inclusive of the drop in of LRS-B.
So I guess I'm just curious A is the F-18 headwind bigger or B is everything else just in a growth mode but it's a really really low growth mode? Thanks for the question Myles.
I would say F-18 is probably the largest of the declining piece of the business and certainly worth pointing out as we've been successful on that program and have realized some nice margins out of that.
But I think the other thing I would point out is we are seeing lower volume in 2016 in the unrestricted space business particularly AHF and the James Webb Space Telescope as those are moving into a more mature phase of their life cycle.
The other piece of the decline that we pointed out was a bit in NATO AGS as we've reached again a level of maturity on that program as well.
So a number of moving parts that go together to give us the low single digit 2016 sales increase.
Got it.
And then just one clarification on the $300 million of CapEx for the buildings we should think of this as a one-off and the underlying normalized level of CapEx is $300 million less of what you're telling us? Good question Myles.
I think what I would say is as we've discussed we do expect CapEx to remain elevated for a couple more years.
And that represents our investing in the business for a robust set of opportunities that we see ahead of us.
And I wouldn't want to give CapEx guidance beyond 2016 but in terms of the level of elevation certainly I wouldn't consider the $300 million in where you look at it.
I do think those are more of a one-off in 2016.
But certainly we look really hard at every investment we make and we do believe firmly these are worthwhile investments.
Okay.
Thanks.
And while we're transitioning to our next question Steve is reminding me that I slipped a couple years in the timeline that I was giving Jason.
It is about a two-year delay in the difference between the peaks of DoD budgeting and contractor revenues.
I think I said it was 2010 to 2012.
It was actually DoD peak in 2008 and contractor revenue is peaking in 2010.
But the point is still the same.
It's a couple year difference that we've historically seen.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Good afternoon.
Ken just wanted to touch on the balance sheet and cash flow.
I see you put some additional cash on the balance sheet this past quarter.
Can you talk about what you see as the right level of cash on the balance sheet and then also touch on what you've assumed in your operating cash or free cash flow guidance for working capital and cash taxes relative to 2015? Thanks.
Appreciate the question.
I would say that we in terms of managing cash on the balance sheet we certainly prudently manage that to make sure that we have got sufficient cash and liquidity.
We're north of $2 billion at the end of the year.
We were north of $1 billion at the end of the third quarter.
So I wouldn't necessarily want to put a target out there on where we are but we certainly actively manage that.
And in terms of cash guidance I would say from a working capital perspective I think we're looking at it as relatively stable a lot of moving parts in working capital this year particularly some changes in accruals and mostly timing type items.
But cash taxes I would say that we saw a really good year for cash taxes in 2015.
Unfortunately it doesn't look like we'll be able to repeat that in 2016.
So I would say a relatively higher level of cash taxes in 2016 but I would say net working capital could be a bit better than it was in 2015.
Any way you could quantify the cash tax headwind rough level? I don't think I'd want to quantify that.
I would say that the team our tax team actually working really closely with our sector teams combined to have a great result in 2015.
And I wouldn't want to put a number out there because I suspect that our teams will continue to work hard and do better than what I currently think they could do.
So appreciate the question.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Bernstein.
Thank you.
Hello Doug.
Hello.
I wanted to talk a little bit about Information Systems in the last quarter and actually in 2015.
The margins were good.
And I know in the release there was nothing that appeared there that indicated anything one-time just all around good performance.
So you have a good margin there and then you split Information Systems in two and lose some to Technical Services the service portion products over to Mission Systems.
But when you look at the Technical Services side going forward you're projecting 10% margins there.
Can you talk about how I would expect the lower margin part of Information Systems would be moving into Tech Services how do you get to that 10% and have you seen an upshift in the ability to perform on your Information Systems business overall? So Doug I would say that and let me address first the 2015 piece and a number of parts there that drove the strong margin.
First of all a great performance by the team.
We also saw some as I mentioned of the lower level of the material sales that have a lower than average margin in that business.
So that certainly helped contribute.
In terms of looking forward for the new Technology Services sector and its strong margin rate at 10% it did pick up a number of services business from IS that have actually above margin rates as you look at the legacy IS business particularly the civil and health businesses that were in IS.
So as we look forward we see technology Services as having a strong 10% margin rate.
This is Wes.
I would add that we've worked hard over the last number of years to remove from our portfolio the lower margin parts of our service business.
We've not seen that as really the best fit for the Company for the long term.
So I think what you're seeing in addition to sort of the layout of the components that Ken addressed I do think you're seeing just a broader move forward in how we position the portfolio and the services part of our business.
And it's reflected in the way that we're giving you a forecast for 2016.
Okay.
So that looks like going forward that looks like really a 10% type business now which is great for a service business.
Well we are in the process of benchmarking.
As you know we go through a process early each year to sort through what we think the right benchmarks are for our businesses.
And of course we incentivize our team to do better than those benchmarks.
So we're not in a place where we're going to give you a forward look on what it should be.
But in terms of our guidance for 2016 you can see the number and I think it's reflective of the great work the team's been doing.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with RBC Capital.
Thanks so much.
Good afternoon.
Hello Rob.
Your colleagues over at Lockheed Martin put some details around their F-35 plan the other day and it's a pretty steep ramp up in 2018.
As a major supplier I was wondering if you're fully capitalized for that move up and whether that move up under your fixed price contract structure will also be helpful to margins? Thank you.
Well we're all looking forward to F-35s making progress on the ramp.
This was a ramp that we've all been preparing for many years both in terms of our facilities as well as making sure that we've got the supply chain capacity and the people capacity to effectively execute the ramp.
We're ready and we've been ready.
This was a program that as I said we've been preparing for quite some time.
And I won't speak on behalf of Lockheed but from a broader team perspective this has been the topic of a lot of engagement and the assurance that we need to provide collectively to our customer community that we're all going to be able to get this job done.
The nature of the contracting at the prime level I won't address.
That's a very appropriate interaction with Lockheed.
But moving us into a more normal process both in the contracting side and on the ramp side of where we really should be on a program like this we're all looking forward to that.
And Rob if I could just add that if you think about F-35 for us we do have four contracts for F-35 the center fuselage the radar the DAS and the C&amp;I.
And I will just point out that we are on units of delivery for each of those four contracts.
So the timing of the ramp as you see out of our business could be a little bit different out of what you'll see out of Lockheed.
So just want to make sure you keep that in mind as you look forward.
But presuming you'd be a little bit ahead of them maybe six to nine months or something like that? We would be ahead of them in the production cycle but from a revenue recognition standpoint not necessarily.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
So Ken would it be possible to get the three new segment numbers for 2015 so that we can better gauge your guidance and what's getting us from one year to the other? Thanks for the question Cai.
We are planning to file an 8-K that will present our realigned structure from the current four sectors at the end of 2015 to the new three sectors as we move forward in 2016.
And that 8-K we expect to be filed in April before we file our first quarter 10-Q that will include three years of information on the three-sector format.
And that's the earliest we'll be providing that information.
Can we just get a rough sense? You've told us we're looking at low single digit growth in Aerospace Systems.
Because just having this guidance in the absence of knowing the baseline is a little bit difficult to make any kind of guess even on a full-year basis.
I would say Cai that as we look at it we provided the guidance on the prepared remarks in terms of the expected sales range and the whether it was growth or flat or slightly declining in terms of Technology Services.
And at this point I think that's the best we can do for you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon.
Hello Sam.
Can you talk a little bit about if I look at your 2015 the cash from operations before the discretionary payment looks like it's a little over $100 million less than what you projected and that was coupled with a CapEx that came in lower.
So what moved out of 2015? You know Sam I would say that if I look at cash from operations we were a little bit shy of last year.
We had some just some timing of things timing of cash collections on some fixed price contracts where we have performance based payment terms and some protected negotiations that have driven some delays there a little bit on some payroll accrual items/ But overall I think that it was a strong cash year cash from ops before the pension prefunding of about $2.5 billion and free cash flow again before the prefunding of just north of $2 billion so a lot of cash generation in the fourth quarter.
Our profile has tended to be that way but this year was a bit more even for us heavily weighted into the fourth quarter.
And we'll work hard to try to bring some of that forward as we look at 2016.
And if I can follow-up Ken I think you had said the guidance assumes the share count is down 6%.
Is that the share count or are we talking about the average shares? Because that obviously implies very different level of buyback.
Yes it's the 6% reduction in the weighted average number of diluted shares.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Seifman with JPMorgan.
Thanks very much and good morning.
You mentioned in the Technology Service business the ramp down on work on ICBM.
Wondering if you look out over a multi-year period do you see modernization of nuclear forces as a key revenue driver? This is Wes.
I think there's going to be a lot of opportunity in that modernization wave.
It's another one of these areas that unfortunately as a nation we put off I think for probably too long and so now we're going to have to deal with a significant amount of modernization.
It is an area of deep expertise within our enterprise.
Most of that expertise is within our Technology Services organization in terms of the historical programs like ICBM.
But it's actually resident we have significant capability in all three of our sectors.
So as we look forward at this wave of modernization it's an area that we do intend to participate in I think we can bring a lot to the customer community in that regard and we look forward to addressing those opportunities.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Seth.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Yes just wanted to go through earnings.
At the beginning of last year you said you'd earn $9.20 to $9.50.
You made $10.39.
So can you go through where the opportunities were last year and if this year would offer similar opportunities to the guidance that you just provided? So George the single largest driver to the guidance last year to the performance this year the single largest driver would be the R&amp;D credit which was not in the guide last year as it was not enacted versus this year with the permanence of the R&amp;D credit today we see it as in our guidance.
And other than that it's really about performance.
If there was a single program that was a material piece of our performance in 2015 we would have disclosed what that was.
So it really was just strong performance by the team across the board all four of the sectors in 2015 contributing to that performance.
As we look forward at 2016 we think about the risks and the challenges that are ahead of us.
We think about the opportunities and how we can manage those risks and how we can take the most advantage of those opportunities to drive continuing performance as we look forward.
So I think that's really the name of the game.
The R&amp;D credit is what maybe $0.20 $0.25 I don't know whether you specifically disclose it in the release or not.
So you still had $0.75 of other items and you're saying those are all in aggregate $0.75 but isolated much less than the $0.25 one-time item? Yes I think that's fair.
I would say the R&amp;D credit is more like $0.30 and then the other items are again just an amalgamation of strong performance across the Company.
Okay.
And if I might follow-up with a totally different question.
You mentioned in the release that the unmanned business had less favorable performance.
Could you specify maybe how much that actually was and what programs that it refers to? I wouldn't want to refer to the programs or the specific amounts.
I will just say again if it was material on any particular program we would have disclosed it but we look forward to realizing opportunities in unmanned as we move forward.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks George.
Your next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
Hello.
Thank you guys appreciate it.
Can you guys quantify the margin benefit you're going to get the SG&amp;A from the $300 million CapEx spend both this year and then on an ongoing annual basis? Hunter appreciate the question but I wouldn't want to quantify what that is.
I will just say that we take really a disciplined approach to making these investments and we only make these investments when we see a reasonable return.
But we do believe that this is significant to our businesses and will provide a long-term benefit in terms of affordability and competitiveness.
And I would just put a fine point on what Ken just said.
It's often the thought to model it into rate structures and that perspective from how does it drop down to the bottom line quickly.
But many of the things that we do of that nature in our Company go precisely as Ken said to affordability to our ability to compete effectively capture new business and to address our customers' continuing needs for more capability at lower cost.
So when we have the opportunity to do this type of a transaction if you will that is clearly cost effective it just makes a lot of sense for us to take that on.
So we look at it obviously we demand a return on any type of capital deployment that we do but it has multiple benefits that I think are important to recognize.
Okay.
Thank you Wes and Ken.
And just a quick one.
I'm sorry for the basic question here but can you explain to me why F-18 is a headwind this year given the recent adds we saw in the FY16 budget? Thanks for the time.
It had been at a much higher rate of production.
And so what we're seeing is just the slow gentle ramp down on the program.
We're delight to see some of these additional opportunities on F-18 because it continues to be just a great aircraft and is I think performing well for all of its users around the globe.
So it's nice to see that but it's just a cycle down.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon.
Hello Rob.
Hello guys.
I wanted to follow-up on Sam's question Ken on the cash.
And so I guess if you back out the prefunding in 2015 you're at about I think you said 2.5 on the OCF.
And it looks like it's about the same in 2016 when you adjust based on the guidance you gave us on free cash flow and CapEx.
But with the flattish sales FAS/CAS a little lower margins lower and cash taxes higher is there anything else that we should be thinking about there that offsets to the positive? No I think you're thinking about it right Rob.
I would say that if you think about FAS/CAS the impact is more higher FAS than it is on the CAS side so I'd factor that into it.
The only other item I would mention is timing of international awards.
We had gotten some international advances and been burning those down in 2015.
I think I mentioned some of the accrual items and then again really comes back to continuing to focus on working capital and improve our working capital position from here.
Okay.
And then just you mentioned international just brings up one more thing.
Wes in the Mid East are you seeing pressure there anything new lately? Well clearly the governments are collectively economically having to deal with the situation in oil.
But at the same time they're having to deal with the threat environment that's all around them.
So we continue to see robust demand.
We continue to see a very high degree of engagement with our allies in the region.
And I suspect that's the way it's going to be for awhile because of just the reality of the security situation throughout the region.
So from our more narrow optic than the broader economic optic we've not really seen any backing off from the needs for support on the security front and if anything in some areas it's growing.
Okay.
Thank you.
Brent I think we'll do one more question.
Your final question comes from the line of Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hello.
Good morning.
Hello Ron.
I have maybe a big picture question for you Wes.
Because I think this has worked out well for you guys but I just want to get your opinion on it.
Today do you think that the DoD is rewarding companies for making their own investments in R&amp;D? I mean you mentioned on the call you're spending 3% of sales on R&amp;D.
Do you think there's a bias today towards contractors that are willing to put more skin in the game than in previous years? So the way I would frame that is if you're investing smart in R&amp;D you're going to be more competitive on what the Department wants to acquire so the reward comes when you win.
And that's really the way we think about this equation that by investing smartly for R&amp;D we're going to have the products and capabilities in place that our customers need over time.
This is in many respects this is the story of our industry over a decade of cycles that we have to be engaging with our customer community in a way that we can have insight into what their future needs are going to be.
Because you can't just wake up one morning and say I need a different class of performance than I had yesterday.
It takes time to get those capabilities in place and we do rely on the DoD having follow through from the stated needs to actually acquiring things because that's how we get a return on those investments.
We go and we compete and when successful we win and we perform on those programs.
So I don't think there's any significant difference that I would cite in terms of the way that the overall model is working.
I think there has been a lot more attention of late from a DoD perspective into where are all of the sources of the R&amp;D investment that they can tap into.
Because quite frankly the amount of R&amp;D appropriations that the Department has had available to it to go and make its own investments has declined over the last number of years and in many respects is declining at exactly the wrong time while our potential adversaries around the globe are investing much more aggressively in R&amp;D.
So DoD very appropriately looks to the broader ecosystem that supports it and is in need of those investments being made for the long term and I do think that it pays off if you do it smart.
If you're applying that investment in areas that turn out to be the right ones for our customers and if can convert those investments and capabilities into competitive offerings that really meet the customers needs.
So I think the model makes sense but it requires that very high degree of engagement with our customer community to make sure we keep that alignment.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this point in time I'd like to turn the call over to you Wes for final comments.
Thank Steve.
Well as I said at the beginning of the call 2015 was an outstanding year for our Company and I'm really proud of what our team accomplished last year.
And I have to say I'm looking forward to what this team can accomplish in 2016.
So thanks everyone for joining us on our call today and really appreciate your continuing interest in our Company.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.