Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation First Quarter of 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
This is John Ferriola Nucor's Chief Executive Officer and President.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior leadership team: Jim Frias our Chief Financial Officer; and our other Executive Vice Presidents: Jim Darsey Keith Grass Ladd Hall Ham Lott and Joe Stratman.
First and most importantly we want to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for your hard work taking care of all of our customers in today's very challenging market conditions.
As always you are doing it by working safely working smart and working together.
You are Nucor's greatest asset and our real competitive advantage with the right people doing the right things every day.
Thank you all.
Last week Ham Lott announced his plans to retire in early June and Ray Napolitan has been named as his successor as Executive Vice President leading the Fabricated Construction Products team.
Ham's retirement and Ray's promotion are part of the thoughtful and orderly succession planning process that has been an important strategic initiative throughout Nucor in recent years.
Ham began his career in 1975 and has served since 1999 as Executive Vice President responsible for Fabricated Construction Products.
Over his 37 years of service with our company Ham has dedicated himself to Nucor's continual improvement and strengthening our competitive position.
Under his leadership Nucor's downstream businesses have nearly tripled to their current annual capacity of more than 4.6 million tons.
On behalf of myself Dan Dimicco and the entire Nucor family I want to thank Ham for his many contributions to making Nucor a better company.
Ham thank you for a job extremely well done.
And remember while you may be retiring you will always be a member of the Nucor family.
Ray Napolitan is a 17-year veteran of our company.
He is a highly effective Nucor leader with experience in our metal buildings joist and deck operations.
Since 2010 he has served as President of Nucor's Vulcraft/Verco group.
Ray and his team are well prepared to build upon our record of long-term profitable growth in downstream and fabricated products.
In addition to providing Nucor attractive long-term returns these businesses enhance the profitability and growth opportunities of our core steelmaking business.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to discuss our first quarter results and financial position.
Following Jim I will update you on Nucor's growth strategy.
Jim? Thanks John and good afternoon.
First quarter 2013 earnings of $0.26 per diluted share were modestly above our guidance range of between $0.20 to $0.25 per diluted share.
The decline from fourth quarter 2012 earnings of $0.43 per diluted share was due to the swing from a fourth quarter LIFO credit of $0.14 per diluted share to the first quarter's LIFO charge of $0.03 per diluted share.
The decline from year-ago first quarter earnings of $0.46 per diluted share was largely the result of weaker operating results from our steel mills as the typical seasonal improvement in the first quarter did not occur.
A quick comment about our tax rate since it can be confusing due to the impact of profits from noncontrolling interests.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners the first quarter of 2013 effective tax rate was 33.4%.
Balance sheet strength remains an important attribute of Nucor's business model.
Our total debt-to-capital ratio was 32%.
Cash short-term investments and restricted cash totaled $1.1 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2013.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and it does not mature until December 2016.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
Nucor is the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the extremely important competitive advantage of an investment-grade credit rating.
The benefits of our credit rating include a lower cost of capital financial flexibility and Nucor's position as the lowest risk counterparty for both customers and suppliers.
Our natural gas working interest investments to support Nucor's raw material strategy are an excellent example of how financial strength pays off for Nucor.
Our strong liquidity and cash flow through the ongoing Great Recession is allowing us to continue Nucor's long tradition of growing stronger during downturns.
2013 capital expenditures are expected to exceed $1.1 billion.
Of this total we estimate that approximately $300 million is for maintenance capital projects and $800 million is for projects to grow Nucor's long-term earnings power.
We are implementing a number of projects throughout our upstream steelmaking and downstream businesses to develop new products increase quality and reduce costs.
The most significant of these initiatives are: our Louisiana direct reduced iron facility and the related natural gas drilling investments; expanding SBQ production capabilities at our bar mills in South Carolina Nebraska and Tennessee; expanding our Nucor-Yamato structural mills portfolio of sheet piling products; expanding our South Carolina flat-rolled mills portfolio to include wider and lighter gauge hot-rolled sheet; adding a normalizing line at our North Carolina plate mill; and constructing a new reheat furnace at our Connecticut bar mill.
In his comments John Ferriola will update you on some of the more significant projects that will be starting up in coming months.
Our team is excited by the opportunities we are executing on to award Nucor shareholders with very attractive long-term returns on their valuable capitals.
The objective of our growth strategy is higher highs and peak earnings power and shareholder value through successive business cycles.
For the second quarter of 2013 Nucor's earnings are expected to improve from first quarter levels.
This reflects our outlook for improved performance at our downstream businesses raw material operations and most steel mill product groups.
The exception to the anticipated overall trend of improvement is the flat-rolled market.
Excess supply both domestically and from imports remains a very serious challenge for the sheet steel industry.
We are growing more concerned about slowing in the economic recovery.
Recently published service center shipment data for the first quarter of 2013 shows a year-over-year reduction in shipments of over 6% with reductions in every category of carbon steel products.
However this comparison may somewhat overstate the magnitude of market softness.
In 2012 the first quarter was the strongest quarter of the year for service center shipments as seasonal upward pricing momentum encouraged buyers to accelerate purchases.
It is also worth noting that the first quarter of 2013 shipments increased over 14% from the fourth quarter of 2012 level.
We continue to be cautiously optimistic about nonresidential construction markets in 2013 as they slowly improve from very depressed levels.
The most recent McGraw-Hill Construction market survey projects nonresidential construction square footage growth of about 8% for 2013 compared to 2012.
This level remains less than half of the 2007 peak.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
John? Thanks Jim.
The magnitude and duration of this ongoing Great Recession is unlike anything we've experienced in our lifetime.
We are now 5 years into what remains a depressed and stagnant global economic environment.
Here is a statistic that tells the real story.
In the United States today approximately 30 million people are either unemployed underemployed or have simply given up hope for finding a job and have dropped out of the labor force.
On a percentage basis the true unemployment rate today rivals levels last experienced during the Great Depression of the 1930s.
Against this backdrop steel market fundamentals remain very challenging.
Utilization rates for the American steel industry remain mired in the 70% range.
At the same time imports have surged over the past several years to levels totally inconsistent with the stagnant domestic economy.
These import levels make no sense whatsoever when you consider the fact that American producers are among the lowest cost producers of steel in the world.
But the Nucor team always thinks and acts with a long-term perspective.
We are able to do this because of the strength of Nucor's business model.
These strengths include our strong balance sheet our healthy cash flow generation through the cycle a low and highly variable cost structure great product diversification our market leadership positions a flexible production capacity and most importantly our culture.
Longer term we are bullish on the profitable growth opportunities for both the American economy and to Nucor.
Our team is bullish on the American people and their ability to do the right things over the long run to reinvigorate our economy.
Speaking frankly the time is right for a U.S.
economic renaissance fueled by our country's abundant energy resources and an unrivaled workforce.
That is why we are busy building a stronger Nucor with significantly greater long-term earnings power.
Challenging economic times provide excellent opportunities to grow profitably for companies like Nucor.
To be more specific the Nucor team is expanding and diversifying our product lines into more value-added and higher-margin offerings to better serve our customers.
The Nucor team remains relentless in its focus on continual improvement in safety quality and cost.
The Nucor team is aggressively implementing our raw material strategy and the Nucor team is speaking out to sound economic policies that create what our economy needs the most: jobs jobs and more jobs.
One of the most important of these policies being a global environment of rules-based rules-enforced free trade.
Since the last cyclical peak in 2008 through disciplined execution of our multipronged growth strategy we have invested nearly $7 billion of our shareholders' valuable capital at year-end 2012.
With our expected 2013 capital spending of more than $1 billion our cumulative investments since the last cyclical peak will total approximately $8 billion.
These investments have dramatically increased Nucor's long-term earnings power.
During the next several years our focus will remain on executing our strategic plan and converting those $8 billion of investments into profits once the inevitable cyclical upturn arrives.
Our teams continue to push -- continued to push through our growth initiatives during the first quarter.
Two very significant projects are scheduled for completion later in 2013.
Coal commission has begun at our 2.5 million ton annual capacity direct reduced iron or DRI facility in Louisiana.
Due to record rainfall levels and other severe weather conditions in the quarter we expect to start production late in the third quarter of this year.
In January and February our construction site received a total of more than 30 inches of rain followed by more heavy rains in March.
In addition to this record precipitation our progress was slowed by extremely strong winds on a number of days in the first 3 months of this year.
After construction is completed we expect a very fast start-up of production for 2 reasons.
Over the past 6 years Nucor has achieved world-class operating performance at our DRI facility in Trinidad.
Equally important is our extremely high confidence in the reliability and enhanced capabilities of the HYL technology we selected.
HYL is a proven technology.
Today about 25% of DRI production in the world utilizes the HYL technology.
The completion and start-up of our Louisiana DRI facility and with our investments in a long-term and low-cost supply of natural gas is a major step forward in the full implementation of our raw materials strategy.
Simply put we see this strategy as a game changer for Nucor's cost structure for high-quality iron units.
Our Hertford County North Carolina plate mill will begin hot commissioning its normalizing line in June and begin production in the third quarter.
Complementing prior investments in a heat treating facility and a vacuum tank degasser the normalizing line will allow us to further expand our participation in a number of value-added plate markets.
Finally a recent achievement in one of our downstream products deserves special recognition.
I want to congratulate and thank our teams in our metal building groups for attaining in 2012 for the first time ever the market leader position in revenue and in shipments.
Nucor now enjoys an important competitive advantage of market leadership in 8 out of the 10 major products in which we compete: steel beams merchant bars rebar steel joists steel decking steel piling distribution rebar fabrication and distribution and now pre-engineered metal buildings.
In closing I want to again thank everyone on the Nucor team for their hard work and sacrifice during these tough economic times.
I can confidently assure you that our broad scope of work will pay big dividends to the entire Nucor family when the inevitable economic recovery arrives.
Thank you and please keep it going.
Nucor's best years are still ahead of us.
We would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Sal Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about these investments you're making in the growth projects.
Is 2013 the peak you think or this will continue on in the next few years? Just to understand the CapEx for the next few years.
Well in terms of investments a lot of the projects that we are currently working on will finish out in 2013 or early 2014.
We never limit ourselves looking at the future.
We're not sure when potential opportunities will come up so we always keep our options open.
We have a strong balance sheet so if we have the right opportunities we can continue our investments.
And that said we will always be continuing our role in new products on an organic basis in our existing mills.
We are always looking for new opportunities to grow our product range and to improve our products and move further up in the value-added markets.
Research Division</strong> Should we consider a second DRI unit the second module which you had a little bit postponed sort of something which is going to start sometime in -- at least the construction sometime in '14? It's too early to comment on that.
Our objective right now is to focus on getting the first module up and running and getting the DRI into our facilities.
You do know that we have built the infrastructure and support structure at the existing Louisiana facility to support 2 units.
So when we move forward with the second unit the timeline will be a little bit shorter the investments will be a little bit lower and we can move forward a little quicker.
It's [ph] already in place for the second unit so that's also a timesaver.
Research Division</strong> One last thing on nonres construction.
Are you seeing improvement year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter as it is moving forward from let's say sometime middle of last year? As Jim mentioned in his comments as we look forward into 2013 we see a slightly better nonresidential construction environment.
We use the word cautiously optimistic.
We see some signs of improvement.
The ABI index has been over 50% for 7 months in a row now.
When you look at residential construction which is sometimes a leading indicator of nonresidential construction housing starts up over a million units annualized which is the first time since I don't know 2007 2008 somewhere back then.
So there are some encouraging signs that things are getting better in nonresidential construction.
Now having said that when we say that they get marginally better in 2013 that would take them to roughly 60% or 65% of the levels that they peaked out at during 2007.
We'll take our next question from Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question just on DRI.
One thing that I'm curious about is just the value and use issues with using DRI in an electric arc furnace relative to pig iron.
I was wondering if you can kind of give us a sense of how that slows down productivity.
Does it increase tap-to-tap times? What does it actually do to your operating cost at the mill? There is a value and use penalty in using DRI.
We estimate that to be somewhere in the neighborhood of $15 to $20 a ton.
It really isn't a function of productivity.
It does slow you down a little bit.
It's more of a function of cost on other components refractory costs and other operating costs similar to that.
Now we have done a lot of work on DRI in electric arc furnaces.
We've done a lot of testing at our existing furnaces.
And to date we've been able to add -- at our Hickman facility we ran heats with 40% to 45% -- I'm sorry that was actually what we did at Decatur.
I said Hickman by mistake.
But at Decatur we ran trials using DRI so that we could get a good feel for what the penalties would be both in productivity and in costs.
So we feel we have a real good handle on those estimates.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just something else on non-metal costs.
And maybe this is too simple of an analysis but just looking at the first quarter in 2013 metal margins were $377 roughly the same in first quarter 2012 $379.
Volumes were a little lighter this year versus last by a few percent but operating profit was down about 30% or so.
So I was hoping you can just help us understand some of the moving pieces.
I assume some of that's mixed some of that is fixed cost absorption.
But just to get a handle on how non-metal costs are tracking year-on-year.
First of all I think you're comparing the first quarter to the last quarter when you talk about volumes being flat because versus last year they're down.
And then you're looking at profits from last year.
Am I mistaken or I misunderstand your question? I think...
Research Division</strong> Yes volume down 3.5% year-on-year versus first quarter 2012 and the steel business were up 4.277 down this quarter versus 4.424 from first quarter 2012.
And then I'm comparing metal margins from the same quarters as well they're roughly flat.
I didn't think metal margins were flat from last year's first quarter.
I don't have that in my fingertips but I thought they were down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well are there any kind of mix issues that we should be aware that could be impacting just margins in general going forward aside from just the headline metal margin number that we should be thinking about? Mix is always an issue when you look at those numbers.
I don't have the specifics in front of me but I would say that our mix did change pretty significantly first quarter '13 relative to first quarter '12 if that helps answer your question.
Next we'll go to Curt Woodworth with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could spend a little bit of time on what you're seeing in some of the long product markets specifically on the bar side.
I mean it seems like volumes are accelerating for you guys and bar up I think 7% year-on-year.
But what we've been reading on metal margins they've been pretty static.
I think you guys actually lowered NBQ by about $50 a ton earlier this year and we've seen the import pressure seemed to spike a little bit.
So do you think it's a function of just the demand is kind of slowly moving along? Or do you think that the potential for imports is kind of the key issue holding back spreads in bar right now? Well let me start by saying imports continue to be an anchor around the neck of the entire industry.
Global overcapacity is a major issue as is domestic overcapacity in all of the steel products long Products and flat products.
Now that said we do see 2013 to be slightly better in terms of volumes and in pricing in all of our steel products with the exception of sheet.
We think sheet will be -- will continue to be very challenged particularly in the second quarter.
We believe the volumes will be similar or maybe a little bit higher but pricing will be very challenged on our sheet business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick question on DRI.
Can you provide any kind of update on your views on metallization rate or reduction costs? I know that it's a relatively widely used technology but I think the process you guys are using the DRI process there's only 2 plants globally utilizing that technology right now if that's correct.
So any update there would be appreciated.
Well there's many more than 2 plants operating globally using the HYL technology.
In terms of the metallization rates clearly we study both the Midrex and the HYL very carefully before moving forward.
We're convinced in looking at some of the HYL facilities that our teams have visited and did a deep dive into -- that they will be able to achieve similar numbers to what we see in Trinidad perhaps a little bit better.
We're looking in the neighborhood of 96.5% to 97% on metallization rates and somewhere in the neighborhood of 3% to 3.5% of carbon levels.
Actually I think if I'm not mistaken Ladd you might be able to help me out here.
I believe there's just been 2 large HYL facilities both of about 2.0 million tons capacity that have started up in the last year or 1.5 years.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> The plant in Egypt? Yes there's one in Egypt.
There's another one somewhere in the Middle East Dubai I think it is.
We'll take our next question from Brian Yu with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> John question on DRI first.
Once these plants are up and running can you just give us a sense as to how much of that capacity will be displacing pig iron versus say like prime [ph] scrap that you're buying now? Well it'll displace pig iron and it will displace prime scrap.
Now how the mix works out is going to be a function of the cost of the materials at the time while we're making these decisions.
We'll have several options in front of us.
We can use brands cap we can use pig iron that we'll continue to purchase and we can use the DRI out of our 2 facilities.
One of the great advantages this is going to give us is the flexibility to make good economic decisions on iron units as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second one I've got is on SBQ.
It seems like from the data that you were looking at SBQ shipments haven't quite recovered yet with you and another competitor bringing online more capacity.
Like how are you guys thinking about placing that into the marketplace? Well certainly there have been a lot of announcements on SBQ volume expansions among our competitors.
How do we plan to deal with it? Well we're going to compete fiercely and successfully with the additional SBQ that comes into the marketplace.
We have great confidence in our teams our equipment and in our products.
We also believe that given the continual growth in the automotive markets that there will be an increased need for SBQ as we move forward.
We have automotive.
We have energy which consumes a lot of SBQ continuing to go strong -- grow strongly.
Heavy trucks although it's come down a little bit this year we expect it to return in 2014 to higher levels.
So although there's been a lot of SBQ that's been announced and will be coming into the market we anticipate the demand for SBQ to grow also.
Yes one other thing is I've believe the capital projects we have for SBQ there's a mix of them.
The ones we're doing initially are geared more towards moving up the value-added chains.
The ones that add capacity will be later in the sequence of capital projects in SBQ for us.
And maybe just one more point Jim.
That's a good point.
Thank you for adding that.
Just one additional comment on this.
In addition to adding SBQ this is allowing us to realign our existing mills so that our merchant products are produced more efficiently also by reassigning products to different facilities.
We're consolidating our merchant production at some of our facilities so we're going to gain some efficiencies in that area also.
It's important to note as we always do point out although we continue to grow into the value-added markets we do that without surrendering any of the commodity or lower our value-level markets.
We'll take our next question from Shneur Gershuni with UBS Securities.
Research Division</strong> I figured I would continue the questions on DRI.
One thing I was wondering if you can sort of help me out there a little bit the economics definitely make sense love the optionality of choosing where you can go and how you substitute and so forth.
In the past we've sort of recognized and acknowledged natural gas as kind of the risk if it goes up and you've taken steps to mitigate that and so forth.
How should we think about the spread between iron ore prices since it is a feedstock versus local scrap pricing which you're effectively replacing? Or in some respect is that something that we should be thinking about as a risk or an opportunity? How should we be thinking about that? Is Magnetation as a feedstock something that you might look at in the future? Well when you look back historically in comparison between iron ore pricing and scrap there's been a very strong correlation for a period of as far back as I've looked at it 20 25 years.
So we expect that to continue.
We see a strong correlation between iron ore pricing and scrap pricing.
Keith is there anything you'd like to add to that? Well one point John.
There is a correlation and it does continue especially over a period of time an extended period of time.
The 2 come together as the metallics markets around the world sort of the arbitrage opportunities sort of minimize themselves.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So you're not expecting any -- the potential for any disconnects or anything? We don't see that in the future.
As I said it's been -- as I look back in history for 20 to 25 years we haven't seen that and I guess I'd never say never but we don't anticipate seeing anything of that nature.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up question if I may.
The commentary in your press release today sort of suggests a pickup in Q1 from an earnings perspective.
I was just wondering if I can get a bit of expanded color around that.
Metal margins aren't the greatest at this point right now.
Is it just a function of some of the unplanned outages not occurring? Is it today's price announcement that one of the competitors announced? Or is it some volume opportunities unique to Nucor? Just wondering if you can sort of expand what's driving the optimism.
First of all I assume you meant improvement in Q2? Research Division</strong> Yes sorry in Q2 yes.
Okay yes okay.
Well as we said during the script and during Jim's comments basically in all of our products with the exception of sheet we see improvement in demand.
Again marginal improvement slight improvement.
I don't want to mislead anyone here.
We see it getting better across all of our products with the exception of sheet in terms of volume and pricing to a less extent.
Some of our products will see better pricing opportunities in 2013.
Some will continue to struggle such as sheet.
So across all of our products we see some improvement with the exception of course of sheet as I've mentioned several times.
We'll go next to David Galison with CIBC World Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch on the DRI delay.
Just wondering if there's any additional costs associated there with the delay.
And when do you see it turning -- swinging to a profit now? Could you repeat that question? I heard the first part of it but I missed the last thought.
You were asking if there were any additional issues other than the ones that we mentioned? Research Division</strong> Any additional costs associated with the delay and when you see it turning to a profit? Oh there might be some minimal additional costs.
The contract is to stay -- have to stay on site longer.
We lost the ability to work on those days when there was heavy rain.
It's the case of Murphy laws -- Murphy's Law driving us back.
During the period of December January and February they had record rainfall in St.
James Parish.
So we'll see a minor increase in the cost of construction but nothing major at all.
It'll just be a case of the inefficiencies for our contractors working during those rainy season -- during those rainy days.
And you're asking about turning a profit? Yes this is Jim Frias.
The business unit is forecasting making money in the fourth quarter and we expect free operating and start-up costs to go up by about $4 million in the third quarter related to ramping up employment at that facility.
Research Division</strong> And then you're still looking for a 2- to 4-month ramp-up to full capacity? Yes we will be at full capacity -- we anticipate being at full capacity by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the nonres construction.
You've mentioned being cautiously optimistic.
I'm just kind of wondering if you could talk about what you would be looking to see before maybe becoming a bit more positive on the overall markets? Well we look at -- we have an advantage in a sense that we can look at some of our downstream businesses.
We look at the order entry rates the backlogs the pricing opportunities in those downstream businesses Harris company rebar fabrication Verco and Vulcraft operations.
Now we've seen a little bit of improvement when we look year-over-year on our Vulcraft Verco backlogs.
We see some improvement on new orders and then our margins are up fairly significantly year-over-year in both joist and deck.
So those are some of the things that we watch and we see as positive indicators.
What would get us to the point where we were more optimistic would be when we saw greater order entry rate higher prices a larger backlog.
Now there are -- we do have some anecdotal information from time to time that seems to indicate things are getting better.
We just recently attended an AISC conference and I had an opportunity to interact with a lot of our customers there in the nonresidential construction area and they were more positive than we've seen them in a long time.
So again these are all small indicators and that's why we've put the "cautiously optimistic" in the sentence.
But as we see more and more of these indicators we can gain confidence and we'll be happy to be able to share that with you when it occurs.
We'll take our next question from Richard Garchitorena with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple of questions.
One you have mentioned a few times about the weakness in the sheet market.
Can you just expand? Is that really a function of oversupply in the import situation? Or is it demand sort of flattening out here? Clearly you have to look at demand when you say you have an oversupply situation.
But the amount of overcapacity globally and domestically in the sheet market is phenomenal right now.
It's clearly an oversupplied market clearly an oversupplied market and that problem is amplified by the heavy level of imports the surge of imports that have come in over the last well really over the last year 1.5 years.
So yes it's an issue of oversupply.
Demand certainly is not stellar but demand has been improving quarter-over-quarter by a small amount.
We've mentioned a few times automotive.
We've mentioned energy in the form of pipe and tube.
So demand is there and demand is growing slowly.
Unfortunately more and more capacity is being brought online and imports continue to come into the country at very very high levels.
So as long as that situation exists it's going to be a very very challenging sheet market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is it right to assume that on the Long Products side you are seeing better improvement especially recently given sort of some of the signs that you've seen on the construction side? Again on Long Products we are seeing some slight improvement and we anticipate that to continue as the year plays out as 2013 plays out.
But again we're talking about a slight improvement.
We haven't seen anything to get very excited about at this point.
All the things that we talked about during the call so far; increasing small increase in the amount of nonresidential construction is helping introducing new products and moving up the value chain by increasing the breadth of our product offering.
For Nucor that's also certainly helping.
So we see a small improvement as the year plays out in Long Products.
And frankly we see the same in some flat products.
We believe that plate will be marginally better in 2013 than in '12.
We see plate continuing to both in volume and pricing increase incrementally as we go throughout the year.
Sheet is going to be the challenging product for us and frankly all forms of sheet hot band cold rolled galvanized electrical steels are all going to be very challenged.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one other question on CapEx.
You broke out the maintenance versus the growth.
I was just curious; the CapEx for the EnCana JV is that perhaps captured in the growth CapEx? And how does that ramp up in the coming years? It is captured in the growth CapEx.
We haven't disclosed how it ramps up in the coming years.
You can get an idea by looking at the 10-K filing.
The contractual obligations table has a separate line for EnCana investments -- or excuse me for our natural gas investments.
We'll take our next question from Nate Carruthers with Steel Market Intelligence.
I guess a little bit more on the sheet side.
There's a new sheet mill being planned in Arkansas.
Can you give us your thoughts about the facility and its impact on Nucor and the industry in general? There's a new sheet mill being built somewhere in Arkansas being proposed in Arkansas.
I haven't heard that.
That was a joke.
Well listen I'll start by making the comment that you've heard me make several times during the call.
We have a tremendous overcapacity situation in the United States in North America.
There's absolutely no need for additional capacity.
Now having said that okay if the plans move forward and it does move forward to getting built it's going to take some time to get built.
The last new mill that was introduced took about 3 years from the time that it was announced until they began production.
If I remember correctly it was about 3 years maybe 3.5 years.
During that time Nucor's not going to sit idle.
We'll continue to grow our product offerings.
We'll continue to add to our value-added offerings.
And if the mill does start up we'll compete.
We'll compete fiercely we'll compete successfully.
As I think back to the last mill that came online in the United States back in I think it was around 2007 I remember hearing things about how Nucor would be most negatively impacted by that new operation because it was located in the South close to our mills.
And at that time we said that we would develop a plan and trust in our team to take on that new competition and compete successfully with it.
All I want to say is you can see how all of that worked out and if the new competitor continues to move forward we'll do the same thing.
We'll develop a plan I can tell you.
When they start up they'll meet fierce resistance fierce competition.
We'll have the plan we have the capability and most importantly we have the team.
And I've said this many times on many calls I will put our team up against any team anywhere in the world.
And I trust that they will compete and they will compete successfully.
Those are my thoughts.
We'll go next to Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> John when you were discussing the SBQ additions I think you had 2 parts.
The first was the upgrade of existing mix and then the second was the new production capability later in the year.
Can you remind us of the upgrades to the mix and then what your new capability will be later in 2013 with the investments in Memphis Nebraska and South Carolina just from an absolute tonnage standpoint as well? I'm going to ask our Executive Vice President for the Bar Products Jim to handle that.
Jim? Okay Jim Darsey.
As Jim Frias stated earlier our primary focus early on in our SBQ upgrade was to improve our product quality and to improve the value that we offered to the market move up the value chain.
Now those projects are underway in Memphis.
We're installing 2 quality assurance lines there one is an in-line quality assurance line and one is an off-line quality assurance line.
The off-line one will start up in the third quarter of this year and the in-line quality will start up in the fourth quarter of this year.
Also in Memphis we're adding a second metallurgy furnace to improve our quality and provide the ability to provide higher grades of material.
And we're also adding a second vacuum degasser hood where we'll have 2 complete stations for vacuum degassing.
Again our quality and moving up our ability to participate in higher grades of SBQ steel.
At Nebraska our project that we're focused on this year is updating one of our mills.
We're going to add straightening paneling and sharing and packaging equipment there primarily focused on improving the quality of our product.
The mill work will be completed this year.
In 2014 we will be bringing on additional mill capacity at Nebraska.
And at Darlington we're installing a rod block there.
Construction is well underway and the rod block will be co-commissioned and started up in the early third quarter of this year.
That is a product expansion there and we'll be producing rods from 7/16 of an inch diameter up to 2 1/8 inch diameter in bar and coil.
And again that project starts up third quarter of this year.
So this is phased out.
Our press release last year indicated that we will be adding close to 1 million tons of SBQ capacity.
That it is still the case but it's spread out over a couple of year time period.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's 1 million tons of added melt and finished product capability but you're also enhancing the mix at the same time? Yes.
We'll take our next question from David Lipschitz with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> So 2 quick questions.
How much was the impact of Trinidad in the quarter? Was it meaningful or...
We don't have an exact figure but it was probably in the $8 million...
In terms of...
No as we give in terms of VC.
In terms of VC? Yes it's probably the $8 million to $10 million range in terms of vision contribution which means around close to $0.02 per share.
Research Division</strong> And then just more of a theoretical question.
You talked about the McGraw-Hill data up 8%.
If you look at that forecast I think in the next 3 to 5 years you get back to like a billion square feet or something like that over the next 3-plus years something like that which you said is still well below where we were in the mid-2000s.
What kind of level of square footage do you think we need to get to where we don't really need to cut capacity or imports need to go away where we can get some -- people can get pricing power or to that effect? I mean because right now I mean you're still -- like you said even if it's up 8% this year you're still less than half of what the peak was.
Well we don't really need to see it get back up to the levels that we have seen it in 2007 2008.
To some extent that was almost an artificial time period created on steroids I don't expect to see again.
But if it approached 70% 75% 80% of the peak levels of 2007 we'd be pretty pleased with where we are.
We think that that would support a strong market for both our Long Products and for our building products.
Research Division</strong> And one final question.
In terms of raw material prices you're bringing down your raw material costs.
Your competitors are trying to do the same thing.
If iron ore in my consensus said that it is going to be at $100-plus or minus sometime next year do we end up in a deflationary type of environment for prices for steel? Well there's a lot of ifs in that question that's for sure.
Iron ore I read recently articles that say iron ore will be $80 to $100.
And I've seen just as many articles stating that iron ore will be at $150 to $160 a ton.
So certainly what happens with iron ore is going to have an impact on steel the economics of steel production but I'm not in a position to be able to say whether it's going to be a bull or a bear.
My best guess would be as we move forward that you'll see some pressure on iron ore pricing.
You'll see it will come down a little bit.
I'm not sure it will come down to those levels.
And we'll take our final question from Sal Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John you have invested significantly a lot of money in your flat-rolled business to get more and more involved in the OCTG market and you have gotten some share.
It was just wondering if you look at the OCTG landscape there is a bunch of capacity coming in and one can argue is it good or bad for the OCTG market where certainly it will create a significant amount of demand for the flat rolled in the U.S.
but most of these guys are going to buy locally.
And I was wondering if you have seen improvement in your market share or are you in discussion with any of these new projects and you think there would be an opportunity for you a significant opportunity for you in there? Well a couple of comments to start off.
First we do believe that there's a significant amount of OCTG coming online.
We do believe that that will create an opportunity for our flat-rolled mills and we are certainly pursuing that very aggressively.
There are some challenges some headwinds that we have to overcome.
One is the amount of OCTG imports that are flooding into the country.
That's a challenge not only for that industry but for us.
But -- and we are working with that industry to take action to get that corrected [ph].
I was just going to make one more comment and that is this that we are working with our existing customers and we're very aggressively working with potential customers to be their supplier.
And as you mentioned we have made quite a few investments in that business.
We believe that we're very well prepared.
The feedback we're getting from our customers and our potential customers are that they also believe we are well prepared to meet their needs in the future.
If there's no other questions I'll make a few closing comments.
First of all I'd like to thank you all for your interest in Nucor.
It's always appreciated.
Ham I'd like to take this opportunity to again thank you for all that you have contributed to Nucor and to the Nucor family.
So thank you very much for 37 years of outstanding service.
And thank you to all of our teammates.
Thank you for what you do every day for Nucor and thank you most importantly for doing it safely.
Thanks again.
Have a great day.
That does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
For more information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan DiMicco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Robert.
Good afternoon.
This is Dan DiMicco Nucor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call today.
As always we value your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: Our President and Chief Operating Officer John Ferriola; Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey over our Bar Products group; Keith Grass over our Scrap Raw Materials Group; Ladd Hall over our Flat-Rolled Group; Ham Lott over our Downstream Fabricated Products; and Joe Stratman over Business Development and our Plate and Beam Operations.
First and most importantly the senior management team wants to thank everyone on our team at Nucor and our Harris Steel and David J.
Joseph operations for working safely and working together in an economic environment that while improving remains extremely challenging.
And it remains our belief that the economic recovery is likely to continue on an uneven path.
But here's the really important point to understand and remember in analyzing Nucor.
Our company is emerging from the Great Recession stronger than we entered into it.
We have taken advantage of opportunities provided by the most recent economic downturn to grow our earnings power going forward.
This growth in sustainable earnings is a direct result of the talent and dedications the can-do attitude of the Nucor team and what it brings to work each and every day.
While we are encouraged by our first quarter performance and the second quarter outlook the real returns still are ahead of us.
When a robust sustainable economic recovery inevitably returns our teams' efforts will pay big dividends to all members of the Nucor family particularly the people who own Nucor our shareholders.
As you have probably heard us discuss our goal is to generate higher highs of each successive peak in the economic and steel market cycles and higher lows.
Again thank you to all the 20 500 men and women of the Nucor team.
And most importantly continue to work safely.
I will now ask our Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias to discuss our first quarter results and financial position.
Following Jim's comments President and COO John Ferriola will report on our operations and computation of our growth initiatives.
And then I'll wrap up our remarks before we take your questions.
Jim? Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
First quarter 2011 earnings of $0.50 per diluted share were substantial improvement over both fourth quarter 2010 loss of $0.04 per share and the year-ago first quarter earnings of $0.10 per share.
Our results benefited from volume gains and expanding metal margins at our steel mills as well as a solid contribution from our David J.
Joseph Co.'s Raw Materials businesses.
On the negative side our downstream fabricated construction products continue to face very challenging markets in the first quarter.
The first quarter metal margin expansion at our steel mills demonstrated again the long established historical experience of arising scrap prices leading after a short lag to higher metal margins.
Metal margins for the month of March 2011 was at the highest level attained since 2008.
Steel mill shipments were 5.2 million tons an increase of 14% from the fourth quarter.
All product groups realized volume growth but the strongest gains occurring at our sheet and beam mills.
Sheet mill shipments increased 23% and beam shipments increased 21% over the fourth quarter.
Nucor's first quarter steel mill utilization rate reached 79.6%.
That was a significant improvement from our fourth quarter rate of 68.2%.
It also compared favorably to the U.S.
steel industry's first quarter utilization rate of 73.6%.
With Nucor's highly flexible production capability and unrivaled product diversity our teams were well positioned to capitalize on improved demand in the first quarter.
In the first quarter Nucor recorded a LIFO inventory charge of $31 million.
That was an increase from LIFO charges of $23 million in the fourth quarter and $24 million in the year-ago first quarter.
The first quarter effective tax rate measured as a percentage of earnings before income taxes and noncontrolling interests was 32%.
However after moving profits for noncontrolling interests the effective tax rate increases to 34.8%.
First quarter results included $28 million of pre-operating and startup of costs.
Those costs declined for more than $50 million in the prior year first quarter and $39 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We are pleased to report that our Memphis SBQ mill and our Kingman Arizona wire rod called rebar mill achieved profitability in the first quarter.
Nucor's financial strength allows us to invest in attractive growth opportunities through the economic cycle.
We view pre-operating and startup costs as investments to grow our long-term earnings power.
That has been our company's strategy over many previous cycles.
For example Nucor's most recent cyclical peak earnings of almost $6 per share in 2008 carried sizable contributions from the startup projects undertaken during the 2001 to 2003 downturn.
We are now looking forward to growing profit contributions from our investments made just prior to and during the current downturn.
At the close of the first quarter cash and short-term investments totaled $2.3 billion.
In addition to that total there is $577 million of restricted cash held on our balance sheet.
We received this restricted cash from tax-exempt bonds issued last year to finance the significant portion of its $750 million DRI plant we are building in Louisiana.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.3 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and does not mature until November 2012.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
Long-term debt totaled $4.3 billion at the end of the first quarter.
Moody's has reported that our debt-to-capital ratio will be viewed on a net debt basis for any cash balances over $1.2 billion.
Using that methodology our net debt-to-capital ratio is 30%.
That calculation excludes the restricted cash.
Nucor's strong balance sheet and business model were recognized in a report Standard &amp; Poor's issued on April 15.
The report entitled U.S.
and Canadian Metals and Mining Companies Strongness to Weakness ranked Nucor #1 for credit rating and credit outlook among the universe of 61 companies.
It is worth noting that Nucor was the only metals and mining company in the group that S&amp;P awarded a strong business risk profile due to its assessment of our competitive position and financial performance relative to our peers.
In 2011 we will continue to allocate capital to investments that build our long-term earnings power and provide attractive returns to our shareholders.
We project 2011 capital spending of approximately $500 million.
Included in that total are about $70 million of spending for our Louisiana DRI plant and about $60 million for our natural gas working interest drilling program.
Examples of other growth projects underway are: A new quality assurance line at our Nebraska SBQ mill that can be gassers at both our Arkansas sheet mill and our North Carolina plate mill; melt shop transform upgrades and related electoral system upgrades at our Utah Bar Mill; and non-ferrous rotation projects at David J.
Joseph's recycling operations.
Our outlook for the second quarter is positive.
We ended the quarter with strong momentum as utilization rates metal margins and profitability improved from the beginning to the end of the first quarter.
Although there have been signs of weakness in some market segments our belief remains that end market usage continues to experience gradual improvement and real demand.
Markets for downstream fabricated construction products remain very challenging.
Overall we expect second quarter results to be an improvement over the first quarter.
However we do caution against overly optimistic expectations for the second quarter.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance around the middle and final month of the quarter.
We remain very optimistic about Nucor's long-term prospects for continuing our improving earnings trend.
Our business model is built around adaptability allowing our company to leverage its position of strength throughout the economic and steel market cycles.
The Nucor team is working hard and working very effectively to build attractive and sustainable value for our shareholders.
We are driven and settle for nothing less.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
Dan? Thank you Jim.
I'll now ask John Ferriola to report on Nucor's operations.
John? Thanks Dan.
Good afternoon.
Let me begin by thanking all of our raw materials steelmaking and steel product teammates for your outstanding commitment to working safely and taking care of Nucor's customers.
We are extremely proud of the work that you are doing to take advantage of opportunities for profitable and sustainable growth for Nucor.
Thank you and please keep it going.
Turning to the first quarter.
Our teammates made substantial progress in continuing to grow Nucor's earning power.
Here are some current examples of where our teams are building for a stronger Nucor in today's slow growth and uncertain economy.
Our Hertford County North Carolina plate mills new heat treat line completed trials and began accepting orders in February.
It's going extremely well with both volume and rate development exceeding our plan.
In fact our Hertford County team is running the heat treat facility at full capacity a production volume that we did not expect to achieve until the fourth quarter of this year.
Most importantly customer feedback on the quality and the performance of our heat-treated plate has been excellent and true to Nucor's focus on continual improvement.
The team at Hertford County is continuing to develop new higher value grades.
Great job team Hertford County.
Thank you.
This investment improves Nucor's profitability as it allows Hertford County to grow into higher margin products where higher strength abrasion resistance and greater toughness are required.
And it also allows us to shift and improve the product mix allocation between our 2 plate mills and 4 sheet mills to improve margins at those facilities.
For example in the first quarter our Tuscaloosa Alabama plate mill began producing as rolled discrete carbon plate products.
And volume out of Decatur Alabama and Arkansas sheet mills benefited from Tuscaloosa shifting some of its hot rolled coil production to them.
The bottom line our expanding Ohio margin plate product portfolio while at the same time optimizing capacity utilization at our plate and sheet mills results in higher earnings power from both our plate and our sheet mill groups.
And further expansion plans are in the works for the Hertford County heat treat operations.
I also have good news to share from another major product -- project that started up during the current downturn: our special bar quality or SBQ mill in Memphis.
Our Memphis team is rapidly completing the qualification process with many of our customers and as a result continues building volume.
In March they set another record for shipments of rolled finished goods.
Even better they delivered their first quarter of profits since start-up.
Our Memphis team has turned a major corner and their future is very bright.
The Memphis mill more than doubles our capacity to serve the SBQ markets while also expanding our product range into the highly attractive 3-inch to 10-inch large diameter segment.
Nucor will now be able to supply SBQ products from 7/32 of an inch to 10 inches in diameter which allows us to offer our customers the most diverse SBQ product range in North America.
Memphis is currently producing engineered steel bars for applications such as camshafts crankshafts spindles and rain gears to use in the heavy truck and automotive markets.
And other attractive markets currently being served include energy heavy equipment and agriculture.
Reflecting the Nucor culture's drive for continual improvement and profitable growth there is more to come in our SBQ business.
Nucor Steel Nebraska is on schedule for the third quarter 2011 start-up of a new downstream processing line that provides attractive growth opportunities in even higher quality SBQ products than they currently offer.
Additionally our Darlington South Carolina bar mill is enjoying success with their implementation of fully submerged and shrouded casting practices.
The resulting improvements in product quality are allowing our Darlington team to grow their margins as they expand their presence in higher quality SBQ applications.
I will close my report with our thoughts on current market conditions.
The market environment for our Fabricated Construction Products businesses continues to be extremely challenged.
And we expect it to remain so over the foreseeable future.
Nevertheless there is still good news to report.
Our teammates in those businesses are doing an excellent job of working safely gaining market share in many product lines and staying focused on continuous improvement.
On the steelmaking side the recovery continues to be slow and uneven between the industrial and energy sectors and the residential and nonresidential construction sectors.
Steel buyers have shown more caution as market pricing escalated during the first quarter.
At the same time supply in the sheet market has increased with recent blast furnace restarts in addition to greater import offerings.
On the other hand service center inventories through March remained at relatively low levels.
And we continue to see evidence of improvement in real demand in several markets important to Nucor.
These include energy heavy equipment agriculture truck trailers and bridge building markets.
While nonresidential construction activity remains weak the bottom in that important market appears to be behind us.
Whatever direction the economy takes in coming months and quarters the Nucor team will outperform in taking care of all of our customers.
That includes our shareholders our teammates and the people who buy and use our products.
And here are some of the reasons we will outperform: Nucor's low and highly flexible production costs; our great customer service; Nucor's diversified product portfolio; and most importantly our people driven by the can-do attitude and their high energy level.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
Dan? Thank you John.
Our message here is very clear.
Nucor is extremely well positioned to deliver higher highs cyclical earnings power once a stable economic recovery arrives.
That is exactly what we are talking about when we say growing stronger during the downturns.
And here are some of the investments made since the previous cyclical peak in 2008 that will help drive us to higher highs in earnings: An increase of more than 10% in our bar mill group's annual production capacity with the addition of the Memphis and Kingman mills; an increase of 33% in our sheet mill group's value-added coater steel annual capacity with the addition of the Decatur galvanizing facility; an increase of 30% in the David J.
Joseph Co.
scrap processing annual capacity in addition to the opportunity to realize earnings through our full up cycle on DJJ's original capacity of 3.5 million tons; an increase of more than 50% in Harris Steel's rebar fabrication annual capacity; in addition to the opportunity to realize earnings through a full up cycle the Harris Steel's original capacity of 1 million tons; the opportunity to realize earnings to a full up cycle in our Extended Metals Building businesses which more than tripled in size at 465 000 tons of annual capacity with the Magnatrax acquisition and the Utah greenfield plant; our 50% interest in southern Europe's largest beam producer Duferdofin-Nucor and its recently expanded beam and bar annual capacity that now totals approximately 1.8 million tons; our 50% interest in NuMit and our Steel Technology Sheet Steel Processing businesses with 24 processing facilities in the United States Canada and Mexico and more on the way; our North Carolina plate mill's heat treat facility; and Canada's other product line expansions at our bar beam sheet and plate mills; and our Nucor Steel Louisiana directly reduced higher facility's first module currently under construction that will more than double our DRI annual production capacity to 4.5 million tons.
The plans are more to come at our 4 000-acre site on the Mississippi River.
From 2007 to our expected 2011 capital spending plans we have invested more than $6 billion of capital including both capital expenditures and acquisitions.
That is a lot of capital that Nucor shareholders will get paid for through attractive returns in the next up cycle.
Our confidence has never been greater and Nucor's best is yet to come.
Our team thanks you very much for your interest in Nucor.
We value your interest and support.
And we would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Chris Olin of Cleveland Research.
Looking at the beam growth number as they were pretty impressive during the quarter I was wondering if you had a feel for how much of the growth had been related to rebuilding versus consumption growth rebuilding the inventory versus consumption growth.
Do you get the sense that maybe we're in the initial stages of recovery driving that market? In general the increase in our shipments and production in the Beam business has to do with different product mixes that we were producing which were in greater demand than previous quarters.
John do you want to add to that? Yes Chris.
I'd say it really kind of breaks down in terms of -- I'd say the majority of it probably comes from service center restocking.
But as Dan said our product diversity has helped us a great deal here.
We saw some -- a lot of growth in some markets that we service out of our structural plants that aren't in the construction markets such as the truck trailer markets the container chassis markets things like that.
And the other thing I would add is we did introduce 2 new piling sections out of Nucor-Yamato a 16-inch piling and an 18-inch which are the largest H pilings produced in North America.
And the target there is to go after the concrete piling market and we've seen some success in that area here starting up in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then second question real quick.
I'm not sure if you provided guidance earlier in your discussions but can you give me a feel for what you're thinking on scrap costs going forward? And I guess I'm wondering how much the impact or the issues in Japan will have in terms of the impact on the scrap market in North America? Keith why don't you give us your thoughts on that? Well in terms of the impact of Japan I would say that it probably impacted the market in greater ways but nothing significant enough to sort of move the needle in either the ferrous or the nonferrous types of markets.
If the question is about related to the scrap market domestically over the next 30 to 45 days we would see sort of a downward bias or downward trend and more impacting absolute scrap market than the prime scrap market as we head into a time of stronger seasonal scrap flows into the scrap processing yards.
And also as those changes that Keith talked about going forward over the next 45 days 60 days we believe will be more moderate in nature than we saw on the way up in the latter part of last year.
We'll take our next question from Sal Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Dan how is the export market looking at -- I know the prices are higher over here than global prices.
Have you had any opportunity to do some exports here in the first quarter? John? We continue to export quite a bit of our products.
It has been impacted in the first quarter by the large difference between global pricing and products and in domestic pricing and products.
That said the location of our mills gives us a great freight advantage when selling in to our key international markets which are the Americas.
So we've seen a slight drop off.
We finished last year with about 11% of our product being sold international internationally.
In the first quarter about 9% of our product went to international markets.
Okay.
And you mentioned that you were profitable at the Kingman rebar which is I think remarkable because there has been a little bit of crowded market there with another rebar mill opening over there.
What volume are you processing over there? What utilization rate are you running the Kingman bar mill at? Sal the key there is this is not conventional rebar that we are running there.
We are running some wire rod products and coil product.
John do you want to add to that? I would also add to that that the market in that particular region is well served by Nucor.
And the mill there we've done a great job of that mill.
Remember that we were able to build that mill at a very very economical price and started up very reasonably.
So that aided also in the profitability of that mill.
There's no melting fund as you just rolling it over there.
You're rolling billets is that correct? Yes.
That's correct.
The billets are coming in from our other operations whether they'd be in Texas or Seattle and possibly Utah depending on who is in the best position to do that on the freight rates.
Our next question comes from David Gagliano of Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking the question.
You mentioned you touched on some signs of weakness lately.
And I was wondering what are the most significant changes that you're seeing lately? And to the extent that you can forecast these kind of things do you think those weaknesses will persist into Q3? That's my first question.
Well I'll let John address most of that question in a second but there are a number of things we touched in our script about restarting capacity particularly in the Flat-Rolled segment of the business and new capacity that will be coming on stream in Alabama and in Mississippi.
And there's also been an impact on the automotive sector which has been gaining strength due to the problems in Japan with some critical part supply particularly semiconductors chips and other automotive parts.
John do you want to give a little more detail on that? Yes.
I would say that starting with the positive as we look at most of our product lines plate SBQ we expect to remain strong through that period.
We expect merchant product to be consistent structural product to be consistent during that period.
So the one market that we're going to keep a close eye on would be as Dan addressed our sheet businesses.
And typically as you come out of the second quarter and enter into the third quarter you do see a seasonal slowdown that you usually generated as a result of the automotive shutdowns for retooling.
Now this year it's going to be much more difficult to predict the impact of that that we feel the impact will be mitigated because of what's happening today as Dan mentioned with the supply of non-steel critical components into the automotive market from Japan.
As a result both the domestic and the new domestics production rates currently are down as they are waiting for those key raw materials.
And when you look at as we look at the fewer inventory days on hand we see that they are dropping low they're going down and they're continuing to go down.
When you look on the domestic side on the domestic production side you're looking at about 54 days dealers days on hand which is a low number.
And with the new domestics the number is even lower than that.
So we see some pent-up demand in the automotive sector which will release as these non-steel components become more available.
And we believe that that will mitigate the impact of the traditional seasonal slowdown that we see at the end of the second quarter and going into the third quarter.
The other issue we'll be keeping an eye on overall flat-roll imports in particular and taking swift and decisive action when they occur if they occur at levels that could impact the market dynamics.
So as usual in this environment of recovery and a regular recovery there's ups and downs positives and negatives.
And we'll be working our way through them.
But as we mentioned earlier overall we expect the second quarter to be stronger than the first quarter.
And hopefully with the part situation improving in 60 days or so that we'll see a stronger summer than we normally see in the automotive sector.
John? And let me just add one comment to that.
When we talk about demand we look at demand that is tied to manufactured goods and the energy sector.
The demand in those areas remain strong and frankly is getting stronger.
And Nucor's product expansion into the higher valued manufactured product steel is really paying dividends as we go through this downturn.
So we expect that that diversity will also help us as we go down -- as we enter into the traditional slowdown period.
Okay great.
Thanks.
That's very helpful.
Just switching gears away from the current market and looking into the future I've got a couple of questions related to the DRI project.
First of all now that you've broken ground any changes to the project timeline? And then the second question assuming scrap prices stay around $400 a ton is there any way to gauge what the expected annual cost savings would be of say 5.5 million tons of DRI once it's up and running? Well the two major cost components are natural gas and iron ore.
We have a very good handle on the natural gas side.
On the iron ore side it will depend on where prices are in the marketplace at the time that we are actually in production down in Louisiana.
And of course at that point in time which is a couple of years down the road where scrap prices are.
At these prices we expect to have a competitive product that will help our pricing competitiveness versus the prime grades of scrap and/or pig iron that are out there.
John? I would just add your first question was whether there'd be any impact in the timing.
Given the timing I think a few times it has not changed.
We're looking at somewhere in the second the end of the second or beginning of the third quarter of 2013.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Yu of Citi.
Great.
Thank you.
With the import pressures that were mentioned previously are you seeing a difference between let's say the sheet markets versus rebar? It seems like there might be a little bit more rebar but I want to get your take on it.
Well right now the import pressures still remain to be seen as to what extent they'll occur to and whether it's in the rebar or the sheet market.
We have seen some uptick and but whether they get out of control or not is another matter.
And that has not happened as of yet.
Bob do you have any thoughts? No Dan other than the fact that we are watching and then we are very cautious now that they are not in the high import levels that are coming in.
So to Dan's point on rebar we are beginning to get more concerned and that's one of the things that could impact some of our second quarter volumes.
Okay.
And then just on the sheet prices that were reported in Q1 it was $755 and I'm looking at second quarter last year when hot-roll was $700 and you reported $726.
So given that hot-roll still remains above $800 per ton is there anything you can draw our attention to for 2Q that would preclude you from posting a number that's above $800? Well listen as John mentioned earlier our customers are keeping their inventories very lean and for good reason.
They were burned severely when this recession started and they have decided to maintain a leaner inventory structure.
The lead times of imports are an issue.
The potential for movements in scrap prices over the next couple of months our customers are very as much aware of that as we are.
So there are things that will cause our customers to think about importing too much flat-rolled or what have you going forward.
And so we think that between keeping our eye on things and half the mindset of our customer base we should be able to see the results throughout the second quarter.
Dan the only point I would add is when you look at our order entry rate and how our customers are ordering frankly customers today are buying just what they need and bringing it in just when they need it.
And in that kind of a circumstance imports are a challenge for our customers because as you mentioned the long lead times and the large volumes that are necessary in those offerings.
So while we are aware of the potential and we are watching it carefully we feel confident that we can react to any sharp increase in the imports.
On the rebar side that's much more sensitive because of the low levels of demand in the marketplace period for construction overall.
And so even one time of rebar coming in is one time too many particularly with where flat-rolled raw material prices have gone over the last six months.
And how far out does your sheet order book go right now? Our lead times are out about six to eight weeks currently.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Parr of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Thanks very much.
I had a question and I think you may have answered it in the release when you talked about each month getting stronger.
But I was looking at you when you came out with -- you quantified guidance for the first quarter and I don't think the street was too far off for where you ended up actually coming in.
And I'm just curious as to was there something that really changed in March? I mean could you talk a little bit about how surprised were you with the March numbers? I'd just like to get some sense or some extra color on that.
Well first off I don't disagree with your comment about where the street was prior to our guidance.
However I think -- I don't think the reason is the street was where they're at we're fundamentally sound.
And I say that only because what we were giving is guidance.
Oh but we tried Dan.
We tried.
You don't need to get defensive now about the fact that you were there and you changed.
Now we ended up a little bit above it.
That's just the way it goes sometimes.
Sometimes it goes the other way.
I don't hear you complaining then.
Right.
I'm not really complaining because it was a good result.
Come on now I'm just trying to talk about it that's all.
What good would it be Mark if we couldn't give each other a little s*** now and then right? You made my day.
At the time that we gave our guidance I think you can appreciate our caution.
We had said all along that things were improving.
As we were going through the first quarter we expected to be getting price realizations that had lagged the raw material increases that we had seen and it went through our cost structure.
The problem in being more accurate if we want to call it that forecast was that that is a moving target exactly where the pricing ended up depended upon how strong the shipments were and how strongly our customers were taking those shipments.
And in all honestly that March was a rollout month.
It was a very strong month particularly in reference to the first 2 months of the quarter.
So it was better for us to under those circumstances with so many things floating out there in terms of where pricing would end up and how strong shipments would be in the month of March the stronger the shipments the further you go into getting the higher price increases.
And all of that turned out to be very favorable on all the products not just flat-roll but in every product line.
Yes.
It just seem really surprising to me -- not necessarily surprising but certainly a good reflection of how little growth in service center inventories we've seen year-to-date.
And it just -- it really does seem like the end demand environment has strengthened pretty meaningfully.
I hope the momentum keeps up here in the second quarter.
Congratulations really though on the first quarter.
And look forward to second quarter unfolding well for you guys.
Thank you Mark.
I just want to add one thing.
It was the ability to get the pricing to overcome the raw material costs and to recoup the raw material costs sooner than expected that allowed us to have the strong quarter and the strong March.
And that we fully anticipate that trend to continue as we go into and through the second quarter.
The end of the second quarter is still a little bit mushy at this point and we will give our quantitative guidance as usual in early June.
And as we mentioned in our script I think it would be wise based upon your question for the street not to get too far ahead of itself.
And our next question comes from David Lipschitz of CLSA.
A question you talked about audit demand picking up but are you worried with the new system facility in the Sever [Severstal] core facility that that -- the capacity is just going to take up all that demand? I don't know if worry is the right word but realistic about the fact that we're still at best producing at 13 million units in the United States and we were over 17 million units at peak.
And so any additional capacity coming into the marketplace at these levels is something that will have to be dealt with by the market and the demand in the marketplace isn't to the point where it can absorb additional tons of that magnitude without there being some impact unless the market continues to strengthen.
And I think the monkey wrench that got thrown into that in the short-term was what took place in Japan and the parts impact parts supply impact on the auto production for both domestics and new domestics.
Here again we do believe that when that is resolved that we may see a stronger third and fourth quarter in that sector because of the fact that there will be taking their shutdowns basically now while they're short on parts.
Just a follow-up on the non-reg sector.
I mean do you have expectations of it picking up in '12? Or when you talk to your clients and stuff like that are they thinking things are going to be better later on in this year early into next year or nobody has any clue? Really saying nobody has any clue is just probably a little strong.
But not much.
Maybe not much.
You tell me what is going to happen in a number of different areas including Washington and we might have a better handle on that.
But what I will say is reiterate what John said earlier we've definitely hit the bottom and the direction from here on in will be up.
But there will not be a rapid increase through the remainder of this year.
It will probably grow in 2012 at a greater pace than 2011.
But speculating as to the relative strengths is really not appropriate and reckless behavior.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
Okay.
Well then I will say thank you all for the questions.
Thank you for your interest in the company.
Again thank you to all of our fellow teammates throughout the corporation for working safely and helping us to have a much stronger quarter than anticipated.
And look forward to being able to come back and talk about the second quarter results with an improvement over first quarter.
Thank you all very much and have a good weekend.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the Nucor Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risk and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in the Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made on this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan DiMicco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Marissa.
Good afternoon.
This is Dan DiMicco Nucor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call and as always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: our President and Chief Operating Officer John Ferriola; our Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey over our Long Products group; Keith Grass over our Raw Materials group; Ladd Hall over our Flat-rolled and Direct Reduced Iron group; Ham Lott over our Fabricated Products group; and Joe Stratman who heads up our Business Development group as well as our Beam and Plate business.
First and most importantly I want to thank everyone on our team at Nucor and our Harris Steel and David J.
Joseph operations for working safely working hard and working together.
In a quarter marked by historically weak construction markets and severe weather issues have impacted a number of our facilities you delivered impressive results to our customers and to our shareholders.
The talent dedication and can-do attitude that the Nucor team brings to work each day is and always will be our company's greatest competitive advantage.
Thank you.
The second quarter 2011 earnings of $0.94 per diluted share were nearly double first quarter earnings of $0.50 per share and more than triple year-ago second quarter earnings of $0.29 per share.
We are certainly encouraged by this performance and especially the continued solid profitability of our combined construction products offerings from our Long Products Steel Mills and Downstream Fabrication businesses.
These results reinforce our conviction as to the powerful earnings leverage we will see ahead of us once the sustainable economic recovery never begins.
Our second quarter results also highlight Nucor's position of strength in North American steel industry.
We have a business model that is built around operational flexibility product diversification market leadership positions financial strength and most importantly our unique culture.
The competitive advantages I've just described allowed new quarter profit in a big way in both our core Construction Product businesses and from the pockets of strength found in a still-depressed economy.
Additionally some of our major growth initiatives undertaken during the current economic downturn are beginning to contribute to Nucor's earnings.
Our Sheet Mills benefited from an upturn in pricing that began last winter and peaked this spring.
They also experienced steady to improving demand in several important end-use markets such as energy transportation water heaters and HVAC.
And there was a strong contribution from the new higher value-added products that our sheet mill teams have penetrated in a big way.
Our plate mills capitalized on both improved pricing and solid demand from a number of sectors including heavy equipment truck trailers energy mining and rail and our recent product expansion to heat treat plate continued to pay off in a big way.
Our SBQ our special bar quality mills including our newest Memphis benefited from an extremely tight SBQ market.
Our SBQs have been and will continue to be successful in growing the core product range and market penetration.
Our downstream Cold Finished Bar and Fastener businesses achieved strong profitability in the just-completed quarter and while our Long Products mills are competing in very depressed construction markets they nevertheless again deliver solid profits for the second quarter and first half of this year.
The coiled bar mills and beam mills continued to benefit from the market leadership positions and low-cost production to unravel the breadth of product offering which are complemented by our fabricated construction products and their coast-to-coast distribution capability.
Quite frankly when I review our second quarter and first half performance I am very perplexed by how some financial market participants are so quick to claim that Nucor will under-perform its steel industry peers due to our company's heavy participation in construction markets.
Our results for the second quarter and over many economic cycles tell a very different story.
Again the key to our performance and most importantly our ability to reward our shareholders is the flexibility diversification and sustainability found in our business model.
Even better our business model allows us to focus on the long-term and grow stronger during downturns such as what continues to face the U.S.
economy today.
Recent economic data are clear.
The U.S.
economy is still struggling to emerge from the great recession and unable to move to a path of vibrant and sustainable growth.
In June the real or U-6 unemployment rate increased to 16.2% from 15.8% in May.
Going back to March of this year the number of unemployed people has increased by 545 000.
And today's job numbers were no more encouraging.
Meanwhile the U.S.
trade deficit widened to over $50 billion in May its highest level in more than 2.5 years.
GDP growth for this year's first half is an abysmal rate of less than 2%.
This economic performance or lack thereof is not surprising.
Our nation has failed to implement real solutions to eliminate the unsustainable structural imbalances that are dragging our economy deeper and deeper into a hole of little or no growth and extreme debt.
As our team has stated in our previous calls and in many other forms the way forward through a stronger and more sustainable American economy is straightforward.
Our leaders need to focus on real solutions that eliminate structural imbalances and at the same time create where economy needs most jobs jobs and more jobs.
This could be accomplished with our 3-point plan to achieve new energy independence enforce rules-based free trade and thereby revitalize U.S.-based manufacturing and rebuild our crumbling infrastructure.
These steps along with a more competitive global tax system and the unraveling of the massive vine of new regulations that are strangling economic growth will lead to a significantly stronger economy and provide the tax revenues needed to reduce our national debt and still provide for those commitments made by our government to the American people.
No other solution will accomplish this and create the 25 to 30 million new jobs we need over the next 5 to 10 years.
It is time to stop fiddling and to start doing the right things.
The course of the overall economy and the steel market conditions are undoubtedly beyond our control.
However one thing is for certain and under our control.
The Nucor team will meet any and all challenges head-on and turn them into opportunities.
This is exactly what our team has been doing for more than 4 decades.
At this time I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to discuss our second quarter results.
Following Jim's comments President and COO John Ferriola will report on our operations and implementation of our growth initiatives.
Jim? Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
Second quarter 2011 earnings of $0.94 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of $0.75 to $0.80 per share.
Our results benefited from a stronger-than-expected increase in steel-making metal margins.
In the second quarter the metal margin expanded to $447 per ton a gain of $82 per ton from the first quarter and an increase of $127 per ton from the trough reached in last year's fourth quarter.
This is consistent with the long-established historical experience of our steel mills where rising scrap prices lead after a short lag to higher metal margins.
Our downstream fabricated construction products continued to operate in very depressed markets.
Despite these difficult market conditions metal margins improved at our Bar and Beam mills as our competitive strengths overcame the effects of relatively low utilization rates.
As Dan noted we continue to generate solid profits in our combined Steel and Fabricated Construction Products businesses.
In the second quarter Nucor recorded a LIFO inventory charge of $32 million.
That was in-line with our first quarter LIFO charge of $31 million.
Second quarter results also included $31 million of pre-operating and startup costs.
That compares to first quarter costs of $128 million and $43 million in the prior year second quarter.
Nucor's financial strength allows us to invest in attractive growth opportunities through the economic cycle -- okay I'm sorry let me restate that.
That compares to first quarter cost of $28 million and $43 million in the prior-year second quarter and that's speaking to pre-operating and startup costs.
Nucor's financial strength allows us to invest in attractive growth opportunities through the economic cycle.
We view pre-operating startup costs as investments to grow our long-term earnings power.
For example the investments made during the current downturn in our Memphis SBQ mill and our Kingman Arizona wire rod mill contributed to Nucor's improved profits in the second quarter and first half of this year.
The second quarter effective tax rate measured as a percent of earnings before income taxes and non-controlling interest was 32.6%.
However after adjusting out profits belonging to our non-controlling interests business partners the effective tax rate increases to 34.2%.
Earnings per diluted share of $1.44 for the first half of 2011 represent a significant improvement of almost 4x from a year ago's earnings per share of $0.38.
Nucor's annualized return on equity through this year's first half exceeds 12%.
The Nucor team is achieving this performance in a marketplace where non-residential construction square footage for 2011 is forecasted to be 60% below the peak level reached in 2007.
This return on equity performance is also achieved at the lowest financial leverage in the industry.
We're excited by the opportunities ahead to deliver higher returns when the inevitable cyclical recovery finally arrives.
At the close of the second quarter cash and short-term investments totaled $2.3 billion.
In addition to that total we hold $577 million of restricted cash on our balance sheet.
The restricted cash is there to fund a significant portion of the $750 million DRI plant we are building in Louisiana.
Our healthy level of cash and short-term investments will also allow us to repay long-term debt maturities of $650 million in 2012 and $250 million in 2013.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.3 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and does not mature until November 2012.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
Long-term debt totaled $4.3 billion at the end of the second quarter for a gross debt-to-capital ratio of 36%.
Moody's has reported that our debt-to-capital ratio will be viewed on a net debt basis for any cash and short-term investments balance over $1.2 billion.
Using that methodology our net debt-to-capital ratio is 30% and that calculation excludes the restricted cash.
Standard &amp; Poor's in its July 1 report entitled U.S.
and Canadian Metals and Mining Companies Strongest to Weakest again ranked Nucor #1 for credit rating and credit outlook among the universe of 61 companies.
Nucor was the only metals and mining company in the group that S&amp;P awarded a strong business risk profile due to our competitive position and profit performance relative to our peers.
In 2011 we are continuing to invest in projects that will grow our long-term earnings power and provide attractive returns to our shareholders.
We project 2011 capital spending of approximately $500 million.
John Ferriola will give you an overview of our capital projects in his remarks.
Our outlook for the third quarter is tempered by the impact of new domestic supply and increased imports in the sheet market.
For that reason we expect third quarter earnings to be lower than the second quarter.
Overall demand in end-use market such as automotive energy heavy equipment and general manufacturing remain relatively strong.
Those markets mainly benefit our special bar quality sheet and plate mills.
The markets for downstream fabricated construction products remained challenging but are slowly improving.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance around the middle of the final month of the quarter.
We are very optimistic by Nucor's ability to continue building attractive and sustainable long-term value for our shareholders.
We are confident that our team has the right people and the right business model to get the job done.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
Dan? Thank you Jim.
Now I'll ask John Ferriola to report on Nucor's operations.
Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
Let me begin by thanking all of our raw materials steelmakings and steel bar teammates for your outstanding commitment to working safely and of taking care of Nucor's customers.
That commitment was severely tested in the second quarter with the major challenges presented by weather-related power outages and historic river flooding.
Your response to these challenges again demonstrated that Nucor is North America's most reliable steel and steel products producer.
Thank you and keep up the great work.
The impact of these disruptions is evidenced by the decline in our steel mill capacity utilization.
It dropped to 70.7% in the second quarter which is down from 79.6% in the first quarter.
By far the biggest challenge we faced was from the loss of full electrical power at our Decatur Alabama sheet mill for 29 days following the devastating tornadoes that hit that area in late April.
But in understanding our company and how our culture creates long term value there is a much bigger story than any short-term loss of production shipments and even earnings.
The biggest story is how our team responded to take care of all of our customers during such a challenging period.
Here is how the Nucor team or one Nucor team responded.
Immediately after power was lost our Decatur team worked with their sister Sheet mill divisions to successfully move all of Decatur's orders to other Nucor sheet mills.
Those orders were then produced and delivered on-time.
And the change in production sourcing within the Nucor sheet mill group was seamless if not invisible to our customers.
One order from a major coal railroad OEM customer normally supplied by Decatur was produced as hot-rolled coil at out our Berkeley South Carolina mill.
It was then sent back to Decatur which had restored enough power to run the cold mill for its cold rolling.
Following that it was delivered on-time to our customers Alabama facility and all of that took place within 11 days.
There are many other stories similar to this that I could share with you about how the one Nucor team pulled together throughout our company.
The bottom line is that we use Nucor's unrivaled position of strength and flexibility to take care of our customers.
We also consider the communities in which we live and work to be our valued customers.
In the days immediately following the devastating tornadoes that hit Decatur and Tuscaloosa while those mills were without power to operate our teammates from those facilities and many other Nucor facilities sprang into action.
They worked tirelessly many on a voluntary basis to assist in the rescue and recovery efforts taking place in those hard-hit communities using Nucor-supplied chainsaws bobcats generators and other equipment much of which was sent from other Nucor divisions throughout the country.
They proved through their actions Nucor's commitment to being a good steward of the communities in which we live and work.
I have never been more proud of the Nucor culture and of our Nucor team.
Thank you all.
Since 2008 Nucor has invested over $5 billion of our shareholder's valuable capital so that we can take care of our customers.
Those investments enable us to take care of our customers with unrivaled operational flexibility unmatched product diversification and an absolute commitment to always getting the job done.
As Jim Frias noted the returns from those investments are becoming more evident even in the current distressed economy.
And the beat goes on with a number of major capital projects underway for 2011.
Raw materials initiatives included our Louisiana direct-reduced iron or DRI plant and our natural gas working interest drilling program.
We expect our increased DRI production capacity combined with control over the necessary supply of reductant will establish a significant and sustainable competitive advantage to Nucor's steelmaking business.
Also the David J.
Joseph recycling operations are growing their earnings power with the addition of more non-ferrous metal recovery capacity.
On the steelmaking site we continue to invest in projects that will further expand our product offerings and allow us to move further up the value chain.
For example we are installing vacuum degassers at both our Arkansas sheet mill and our North Carolina plate mill.
I will close my report with our thoughts on the current market conditions.
Overall demand is best-described as steady.
Some markets are even experiencing some increase in real demand.
The non-residential and residential construction markets continue to suffer from recessionary levels of demand.
Market improvements are slow at best but importantly service under inventories remain at relatively low levels.
Unfortunately excess supply in the sheet market is pressuring pricing and margins.
In addition to new domestic capacity imports of sheet steel have increased significantly.
Year-to-date through May imports of hot-rolled and cold-rolled sheet steel have increased by 18% over year-ago level and is increased to 1.3 million tons.
Unless these supply demand and pricing dynamics reverse themselves the sheet market will be the most challenging for the entire industry in the third quarter.
I will also note that we remain very concerned about imports across all product lines.
It is important for the U.S.
government to vigorously enforce the anti-dumping and countervailing duty laws.
No product line is immune from the negative impact of illegally traded -- of illegal trading and it is important that existing anti-dumping orders be maintained and the U.S.
industry to remain viable.
But whatever direction the economy and the steel markets take in the coming months the Nucor team is primed and ready to grow stronger.
When Nucor grows stronger we position our company for new higher highs in cyclical earnings power once a sustainable economic recovery occurs.
Our team thanks you for your interest in Nucor.
Dan? Thank you John.
Our team is excited that Nucor's best is yet to come.
Before I take questions I would like to emphasize one point in particular.
We are encouraged but by no means satisfied with second quarter and 6-month performance.
Nucor's annualized return on equity through this first half exceeds 12%.
This was achieved with the lowest financial leverage in the industry.
We'll continue to put those strengths to work for us regardless of what direction the economy takes to be an industry leader in profitability and performance.
At this time we would like to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Nate Carruthers with Steel Field Market Intelligence (sic) [Steel Market Intelligence] Okay.
Yes it's Michelle Applebaum with Steel Market Intelligence.
I wanted to ask a general question about the Flat-rolled markets sheet and plate.
Could you talk a little bit about where you see those markets going a little bit longer-term than the third quarter? And what you see the opportunities in each of these markets are going forward beyond the third quarter more of a longer-term view? Well the short-term and the long-term view will both be impacted by the relative demand-to-supply balance that exists or doesn't exist in the equation whether it be through imports excessive imports throwing the balance out or excessive new capacity coming on-stream without any being kind of taken out.
So if you're asking me geez is fourth quarter going to better than third quarter demand has got to improve significantly for us see the kind of performance going forward that will be better that what we've seen in the second quarter.
John you want to add to that? I think that covers it pretty well.
As you know Michelle the Sheet business the sheet market pricing peaked early in the second quarter and has dropped dramatically throughout the quarter.
We see that -- I mean I believe that -- we believe that we're either at the bottom or close to the bottom of that pricing but we expect it to bump along at the bottom for quite some time until we see some significant change in the demand-supply ratio.
Okay.
Well I didn't mean third or fourth quarter.
I meant longer-term.
You've talked about building a plate mill and so I'd like to get a little bit more color on where you think that market might be and why you might think that that's an opportunity not this year obviously but longer-term? Well I apologize for not getting your question right the first time.
I apologize for not asking it right.
When you say Flat-rolled I don't put plate in Flat-rolls.
My apologies.
Typically we refer it to sheet in the vernacular of the industry.
On the plate side we have a different story.
We believe that there'll be tremendous energy development and infrastructure development coming in the future at some point.
It should have been 2 years ago but it's got to come.
There's issues that just have to be dealt with regardless of whos in office.
We believe they will get dealt with and we believe that that bodes well for the plate market in the future past what's going on now which is a very healthy plate market.
And we continue to see that being healthy through the rest of the year.
But we do believe that the opportunity to be there for us to expand our existing plate operations with additional heat treating facilities.
We are going to be putting a normalizing facility in addition to the Q&amp;T at Hertford.
We're exploring doing something similar in Tuscaloosa and we are actively engaged in a new plate mill location and to serve the market better as we see the growth improving going forward.
But it's -- virtually will be in all markets that are strong today.
But in particular the energy markets we see being one will be strong.
The infrastructure markets theyll be strong.
And also the heavy equipment markets that we continue to see as strong particularly with companies like Caterpillar starting to move some more into production into the United States from overseas.
Okay I'm sorry.
This is still all the same question.
So in terms -- my understanding is that you're not serving the entire plate market from where you stand.
And you added the value-added capability and you discovered that there a lot of margins in broadening your product mix.
And so the new plate mill I imagine is going to serve some markets that you're not in right now.
Can I get a little bit of elaboration on what the strategy is there? No.
That strategy remains to be our strategy.
But certainly it will expand our ability to reach markets that we're not strong in today and product lines that we're not strong in today.
Other than that I don't think we should share any more information.
Dan the only thing I would add is that obviously with the Q&amp;T line normalizing line we're looking into and the vacuum degassers that we're adding we will continue to move up the value chain while maintaining our current position in all of our other markets.
That applies to both Plate and to our Sheet business.
We'll take our next question from Kuni Chen with CRT Capital Group.
My question is really on costs and the utilization rate.
Can you just talk about where utilization is today and how much you've been able to bounce back from that 71% level? Maybe just talk about the July run rate so far.
And then from a cost standpoint clearly you were impacted a bit in the quarter with a lower mix of sheet.
Do you get a cost improvement in the third quarter assuming that that sheet mix bumps back up? Can you just talk about how you see assuming flat scrap costs how the rest of your cost mix will change from 2Q to 3Q? Well certainly a couple of questions there I'll answer the last one first.
Certainly if you are in the position to be able to recover lost volume due to weather-related issues and get more tons through your facility your production costs improve dramatically.
Particularly at the mill that was influenced most by the huge power outages that hit the southeast which was our Decatur Alabama plant was down for the better part of 5 weeks I think 29 30 days.
And we lost a few days also at our Tuscaloosa plate mill.
We also had some impacts on shipping and raw material flow because of the flooding on the Mississippi that were -- impacted not only some of the steel mills but also some of our scrap yards.
So anytime you can see that type of reversal in the core assuming weather patterns don't reappear on a similar nature it should have a positive impact on our cost structure.
Having said that at the end of the day the strength of the market will dictate whether or not we're able to achieve those recoveries in volume or exactly what volumes we will see.
We do see as we've already mentioned a much more competitive environment going into the third quarter on Sheet.
And while we plan on being extremely competitive and not losing volume whether or not there's additional volume to be gained is another matter.
One of the things that we do and probably the whole industry benefits from is the fact that lead times are relatively short.
They've been published so I'm not going to quote what our lead times are but the industry's lead times are fairly well-known on the Sheet side.
And if scrap markets soften and that profit will pass through immediately in the third quarter.
And if there's any relief on pricing during the third quarter that should flow through fairly quickly as well.
But those are the potential positives.
Right now we are very cautious about our outlook on the Flat-rolled business for the third quarter.
John do you have anything you want to add? I would like to take the opportunity Dan you mentioned coming back the teams at Tuscaloosa and Decatur have to take the opportunity to thank those teams for the way that they did recover.
They came back on line well safely and with a normal high quality and I just wanted to say thank you to the teams at both of those divisions and to all of our other teammates who went down to help get our mills back quickly and safely.
The first part of your question on utilization rates and lead times and what-have-you that's not something that we talk about on a month-to-month or week-to-week basis.
So we'll report on those as we go through the third quarter and get to our conference call at that time.
We certainly do expect to have recovery in utilization rates based upon our weather-related issues.
We'll take our next question from Luke Folta with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> First question had to deal with your SBQ expansion in Memphis.
Are you able to give us a sense of how much capacity you have now that you've built that facility? And then also I've been reading about maybe you're might be looking at adding a fourth caster there and doing some other expansions at Norfolk and at Darlington.
And can you give us some sense of what your ultimate target capacity is for as SBQ? I'm going to ask John to speak to that.
Currently the rate of capacity at that facility is somewhere around 850 000 tons but that rate of capacity is like most rate of capacities in time exceeded -- it is exceeded to the normal continuous improvement of our operations.
And we are not -- we're looking at putting a fourth strand on the casters not a fourth caster unless I've been left out in of the loop or something.
So John if you want to finish up on this? Well let me confirm that is definitely a fourth strand okay? It's not a fourth caster but it would increase our capacity at the Memphis mill about 30% to 35%.
And we plan to grow that business as we continue to move into the more valuated products and we begin -- we continue to get qualified in the valuated customer base.
So the team at Memphis has been doing great job on getting qualified our quality out of the Memphis facility has been outstanding and that facility compliments our Norfolk Nebraska facility very well which allows us to offer the widest breadth of products and sizes to the SBQ market in North America.
So we feel very confident about the SBQ market going forward.
And John could you speak a little bit to the point about the expansions and looking at doing more SBQ at different mills and all the process? We are taking a look at all of our merchant long product operations and taking a look at how we can -- we orient our mills to get -- to become more focused on SBQ throughout our company.
Were taking a look at it from a product perspective from a geographical perspective and from a capability perspective.
We anticipate having that study done soon and moving forward in -- with those plans.
Preliminary feedback from our team is very very positive very much.
Inc.</strong> But I know you guys had some SBQ capacity before Memphis.
So I was trying to get a sense of what -- how much SBQ could you shift today in total? Total we would have a capacity to do about 2 million tons plus or minus.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And second question.
I was interested in the comments you made about the construction market and that we're starting to see some improvement there although it's pretty modest at this point.
Are you able to say if you are profitable in Harris and Vulcraft in the quarter? And also can you maybe kind of -- on what the backlog has been doing? Our comments on profitability in our construction sector encompasses both the mills and the downstream facilities we dont break out the individual downstream operations or upstream operations on a relative profitability basis.
But I'm sure you can appreciate that working very closely together our bar mills and our downstream rebar fabrication and Vulcraft operations and fastener operations together both benefit from the team work in approaching the marketplace and maintaining a strong as possible volumes at our operations which drive our cost down and our profitability up.
So the overall performance in those groups has been very strong.
And it couldn't be done without the fact that we were strong participants in both the downstream and the mill operations.
Inc.</strong> Can you just talk about the backlog? We don't share backlog information.
This is Jim Frias.
But Ill just add one thing to Dan's comment.
If you look at the sales and earnings chart that we put on our website for the general market you can see that the rebar fab guys had improvement from first quarter to second quarter of about 54 000 tons more than 20% and some of thats seasonable but some of it is improvement in demand as well.
We'll take our next question from Brian Yu with Citi.
Dan in the supplemental information it shows volume declines in sheet and structural but these were also sold products that had the greatest sequential average price improvement.
And I was wondering if there was some rationalization of your order book during the quarter to drive up mix that helps explain sort of this out-sized price moves? Well on the Sheet side of the business I think weve pretty well discussed that and answered that question already.
And the volume losses principally are due to the outages at the mill that does over 200 000 tons a month and was down for better than a month.
But the pricing we've also addressed as we saw pricing increases during the quarter that overcame the raw material increases.
On the Beam side of the business I think there is a good argument to be made that the product diversity that we have in that business really helped to keep our margins even though the volumes were down slightly.
Mix switch and mix and structural also had a big impact.
The mix of the products produced during the quarter also had a big impact on that.
Can you go into detail just about the mix side and what are we talking about and then in terms of sustainability going forward relative to what you're seeing in the non-resi markets? Well sustainability going forward is strong.
The ability to sustain that is strong because of the wide product mix that we have on our Beam mills.
Nobody in the U.S.
makes the wide range from the really heavy foot weights to the lightest foot weights to all the variety of different products that we make in the structural side of things.
Joe do you want to add anything to that? I agree Dan that the product diversity really allows us to sustain through any product mix scenario.
But what really drives the product mix from month to month quarter to quarter is the type of project that's going on in the marketplace not so much anything we do on a marketing perspective.
So it's really demand-driven and that's very hard for us to predict.
We do have the ability to sustain it as Dan mentioned no matter which direction it goes but the product mix is more project-dependent.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I have 2 questions if I could.
One is just simply looking at the price -- the average price realization in your Sheet business first to second quarter relative to what we calculate to be the spot market.
The first quarter was a pretty big discount and the second quarter was a pretty big premium.
Just wondering if you could help me understand what -- if there might have been some big difference? I know you're doing more value add but it looks like $120 swing.
Is there anything else I might be missing there? The other factor that plays into it would be the contract pricing.
We have about 35% to 40% of our Sheet business is based upon contract pricing some of which is based on quarterly CRU numbers.
So of course the pricing of the first quarter was based upon the fourth quarter of last year CRU average pricing.
In the second quarter we benefited from the higher CRU pricing in the first quarter.
Got you.
So wouldn't that also help into the third quarter or how do we think about that? To some level to some extent it will.
Okay.
Great.
The other question I have is again in light of the sheet oversupply problems you talk about have you thought about -- and I think you addressed a little bit containing production.
Is there a way that you think about exports at what price are or at what -- how do you think about the export market as a potential way to address the oversupply in the sheet market? Well our way to address any oversupply situation is just to be extremely competitive and be successful based upon our cost structures and our customer service and quality for our product range we have.
As far as exports go regardless of what's going on in the domestic market we are active on the export front always looking for opportunities.
And particularly -- and that even without the additional capacity coming on stream the industry is not running at full capacity.
So it's been a long-term focus of ours to grow our exports.
We were working on that and exporting quite significantly in '06 '07 '08 and it continues through this downturn as well.
So it's not something that I would say is -- we at all focused because of domestic overcapacity.
That we deal with by being as competitive as possible to get as much business as we can bring into our operations.
That's understood okay.
But do you have the percentage that you've given us in the past in terms of expert tons? Let me ask John.
So the second quarter was basically unchanged from the first quarter were always in that neighborhood of 9% to 11%.
And that's what it was for the second quarter.
It was about 9.5%.
We'll take our next question from Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Just one question on the SBQ market.
It seems to be very tight I hear some products are out close to the end of 2012 at this point.
And I just wanted to kind of get your opinion on what the demand for this market looks like longer-term.
I know there's been about 1 million tons kind of knocked off-line by Republic.
But at the same time weve seeing a lot of restarts Memphis and some others kind of offsetting that.
And certainly the economy is not running at full speed here were nowhere near 16 million auto builds.
So what's really driving the tightness in that market and has something structural changed on the demand side? It's principally -- automotive has uptick compared to a year ago without a doubt.
It's way below its peak no doubt there either.
But I think we're -- the agricultural sectors the heavy equipment sectors the customers like Caterpillar and John Deere and so on that's where a lot of demand is coming from and will continue to come from.
We'll take our next question from Arun Viswanathan with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> I had a question about the capacity additions.
You referenced that and definitely I can recognize a threat.
Has that been localized to any specific regions or are you seeing the supply kind of hit several different areas? Any suggestion that it is localized is pure poppycock.
We have 1.3 million tons of flat-rolled steel coming into the United States from every direction in the world.
So you put that in perspective with whether or not the excess capacity is coming from Baltimore or Pennsylvania or Alabama or Mississippi.
It's immaterial.
Everybody feels the pressure of the additional capacity coming to the U.S.
market whether it be domestic or import.
I think it's felt by everybody.
There's nobody immune from it by any stretch of the imagination.
And if you take a look at the history you'll find that to be extremely true.
LLLP</strong> Okay yes.
And similarly can you characterize it as impacting any one market product-wise versus others? No.
It's one of those things where if it was to be a localized increased capacity into some special sector of the market then the folks that played in that market would soon move their production capability into the lower end of the market and vice versa.
It doesn't take very long for it to shakeout because it's impacting all the players.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And just lastly on this issue I'm just curious I mean I know that you guys have one of the lowest cost structures in the industry.
So you've noted that prices appear to have a bottomed.
What's the capacity for these folks to continue to be competitive on the pricing front? And are you kind of concerned that prices could go lower as they try to steal more share? Well first off as John mentioned in his remarks our view of pricing at this point in time is that it's at or near the bottom on flat-roll but that's just our best-guess.
There's been a significant drop-off in pricing about $190 a ton.
And in the published market place this is not our numbers it's the published marketplace numbers.
And I guess you should ask folks that have to decide on whether they want to continue to be -- whether they want to make any money doing what they're doing or continue to lose money.
When you look at it Dan the input costs to the steelmaking prices they've held pretty steady.
So that will certainly have an impact on their -- on everyone's profitability and margins.
LLLP</strong> And so on that point do you expect any relief on scrap or alloys or anything else in coming quarters or...
Our view has always been that we're lousy forecasters of what's going to happen on the raw materials side.
But I would say that under current conditions we don't see any severe upward pressure maybe some slight downward pressure but pretty much flat as we go forward.
But like I said earlier if there are any decreases in raw material costs that will pass through to the third quarter for virtually everybody unless theyve overstocked their inventories.
And likewise on pricing any pricing improvements will go through pretty quickly into the third quarter because of the overall lead times in the industry.
We'll take our next question from Mark Parr with KeyBanc.
I was wondering on the construction market commentary that's somewhat new for you in terms of talking about things showing some modest growth.
Could you give us some color on where you're seeing the growth coming from? Is there anything specific that we could look to? I think for the most part non-residential construction multi-dwelling apartments there is some slight improvements in activity there.
But nothing that we would quantify as being strong by any stretch of the imagination.
But you've seen some numbers recently where multi-family dwellings are up 30% compared to previous time periods.
We're seeing some infrastructure activity but nothing of any major type that is needed in this country.
It's just a general fact that we've been at the bottom and there was no where else to go but up and so we started to see some just gradual increases in activity.
I think we've been very clear that they've been modest and small increases.
We've been very clear about that.
Yes no but it's just nice to see what appears to be at least somewhat of an inflection yes however tepid and modest.
But at least it's a beginning so that's encouraging.
Another thing I was curious about theres -- earlier this week one of your competitors had indicated some thoughts about potential for sheet pricing to show inflection and moving up.
If you look at the futures markets they've moved actually off of bottom here just in the last week.
And the futures prices for moving into the first half are a lot stronger than they are in the fourth quarter also the differential between U.S.
pricing and Chinese the Shanghai export price is at what I would characterize as an unsustainably low level indicating some upward momentum opportunity for U.S.
sheet pricing.
Is there any color that you can give in terms of your own opinion on when you think some pricing inflection might unfold here? I think we've already made the comments that we feel like the pricing is at or near bottom so the odds of it going up are greater than going down.
But you can't get away from the fact that whether its imports from overseas bringing on additional capacity and excessive demand or its new capacity coming on stream domestically that's an issue that has to be dealt with.
It can't be ignored.
It's real and it will have an impact on exactly what strengthening takes place in the quarter and it's way too early to tell how are people going to behave in the marketplace.
It's -- everybody's out there trying to do for their companies what they can do to be more profitable and bring in more volume.
So I continue to believe we continue to believe its going to be a very competitive marketplace.
Okay.
If I could ask just one last question.
Certainly -- on the second quarter there were a lot of unusual issues which you talked about.
Is there any help you can give us to try to at least attempt to quantify how much of a cost impact there was? The impact is in lost volume.
And so I mean you imagine keeping all your teammates employed and actually helping out in the communities where youre paying them for their efforts to salvage homes save people who are buried under stuff and trees and collapsed houses you name it and you're not producing any steel theres a major cost impact.
We didn't lay our folks off.
We kept them busy and there was a significant impact maybe not on existing orders on the books as we moved them very well to our other operations to fill those orders.
But when you're sitting there you're telling your customers well the PBA's telling us 3 to 5 weeks you're probably not going to get kind of order entry that you're going to need to build your order book at that location going forward.
To put a cost number on it is difficult.
We basically lost a little over a months production at that facility which does 50 000 tons a week or more.
And we did lose some out of Tuscaloosa also.
Yes.
We lost production in Tuscaloosa.
So I can try to work on what that might work out to be.
And the only thing that I would put in front of you is rather than trying to get to fancy about figuring all that out just focus on the fact that profitability in the quarter was extremely strong in spite of that.
We'll take our next question from Aldo Mazzaferro with Burke &amp; Quick.
I was pretty impressed with your metal spreads in the sheet area and in the structural area.
But in the sheet area would it be fair for me to think that some of the pricing improvement was due to the mix and the mix was really due to the outage at Decatur where you kind of saved the high-value products and gave up the hot-rolled? No we didn't give up anything.
We just made sure we didn't fall down on our customers needs when they were -- if they had the commitment from us to provide them the steal out of Decatur fill those orders.
Certainly mix always has a role to play I think John talked about a little bit already.
But I wouldn't say it in the way that you just put it Aldo.
John? No Dan you're spot on.
Mix we had a slightly different mix for the quarter but it would not have impacted the margin significantly.
I guarantee if anybody told me they turned away a hot-roll orders theyd have heard from me.
So in terms of your third quarter comment that you might have lowered numbers is it -- would it be metal spread considerations that you're looking at when you think that way? Absolutely.
Absolutely I mean Aldo pricing is going from the peak of 890 to -- soon to be 700.
You haven't seen scrap come down $200 a ton have you or iron ore or coke and coal or anything else? Are you seeing any increased electricity cost on a kilowatt basis or per ton basis due to the heat? Not really.
I think we spoke to our energy numbers in the press release.
They're about $3 a ton higher but nothing out of the ordinary.
All right.
Then just finally how's the European JV doing with the Italian/Greece contango there in the credit markets? And generally are you seeing any improvement or hows the export potential from the U.S.? Well first off question related to our joint venture which is known as Duferdofin with our partners at Duferco.
Under the circumstances and it significantly impacted construction markets in Europe and Southern Europe they're doing very well.
And there are plenty of opportunities for us to improve their cost structure even further even in these lousy conditions which our teams are working on as we speak to improve their situation even more.
But they're more than holding their own and not a major drain on Nucor at all.
Great.
And any export anything on the export front that you can talk about? I think pricing has got more competitive.
So I think we'll see some more opportunities.
But it's nothing out of the ordinary.
I don't think we expect to see much improvement in exports percentage-wise in third quarter than second quarter.
Itll be about the same.
We'll take our next question from Richard Garchitorena with Credit Suisse.
Just a quick question are there any maintenance outages expected in Q3 or...
We have a few that are scheduled nothing major a couple of days here and there during the quarter but we have no major outages.
We do have our -- we currently have our Trinidad DRI facility down for a major outage but that will be returning at the end of this month.
The reason it has been down is to expand our capacity from about 1.8 million tons up to 2 million tons in Trinidad.
Great.
And on SG&amp;A it looks like went up slightly as a percentage of sales to 2.9.
Is that related to just the increase to profitability or is there anything else specific than that? Yes it is profit sharing increases.
Obviously the more profitable we get so that has to be put aside so that's principally it.
Our next question comes from Sal Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Dan it was very good to see that the equity contribution from consolidated affiliates went to positive income for a long time.
I believe it's  were you profitable at Duferdofin or was it all NuMit which actually more than offset the Italian joint venture losses? Actually there's several other items in that category.
And obviously we don't break them out.
So nice try Sal.
We won't be breaking them out any further but I'll gave it to you overall.
Its nice to see that net-net-net of the 4 or 5 things that were in that category turning more positive.
Okay.
Do -- should we actually expect that? I mean is that something that's changed over there? I think they've done a significantly better job this year than last year.
While we can't give you the absolute numbers I think the level of improvement has been -- Joe you got any percentages in terms of...
The level of improvement would be -- I don't have percentages exactly but it would be a factor of more than doubling their performance.
Yes.
I think it would be driven by operational improvements cost improvements.
There's been some slight improvement in selling prices but as Dan said the markets over there are very weak and demand's weak.
So it's really operational- and cost improvements-driven.
Great.
And lastly on the startup costs how should we figure out over the next few quarters and Castrip how long you think you're going have the startup over there? This is Jim Frias.
Castrip will probably come out of startup in the next quarter and we would expect that the overall startup cost could be below $20 million thereabouts in the third quarter.
And if theres no further questions at this time.
Mr.
DiMicco I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional closing remarks.
Thank you.
Again I would just like to thank everybody who is interested in Nucor's and our shareholders our teammates.
And while third quarter is yet to be accomplished you can be assured that Nucor will be there at the top of the heap whatever that level is and that we'll be competitive.
And that we should be seeing things getting better going forward rather than worse on an overall basis.
The sheet market will now become one of the more challenging ones because of the capacity situations.
It's not the first time that we've met challenges like that before and we will again.
So thank you all for your interest.
And Nucor teammates thank you all for working safely and for helping us have a great quarter.
Bye-bye.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation's Third Quarter of 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan DiMicco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Stacy.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call and as always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: our President and Chief Operating Officer John Ferriola; our Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our Executive Vice Presidents: Jim  Darsey Keith Grass Ladd Hall Ham Lott and Joe Stratman.
First and most importantly I want to thank everyone on our teams at Nucor and our Harris Steel and David J.
Joseph operations for their excellent work in economic environment that remains extremely challenging.
You are working safely and as always you are working together as a team to take care of our customers and our shareholders.
And your work goes far beyond the significant demands of getting the job done each quarter.
You are successfully implementing numerous growth initiatives that are building a stronger Nucor.
By a stronger Nucor I am describing one positioned for new higher highs and cyclical earnings power once the sustainable economic recovery arrives.
Thank you all.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to discuss our second quarter results.
Following Jim's comments President and COO John Ferriola will report on our operations and implementation of our growth initiatives.
As you listen to the reports I believe there are 2 very important points you need to consider.
First our third quarter and first 9 months results benefited greatly from Nucor's position as North America's most diversified steelmaker.
Product diversification is a critical building block in Nucor's business model.
And our business model with its flexibility diversification and sustainability is what drives Nucor's industry-leading through the cycle return on capital performance.
Second Nucor is growing stronger during this downturn.
Throughout Nucor our teams are growing long-term earnings power in upstream raw materials and steelmaking and in downstream steel products.
How can we do that? How can we expand while others are focused on survival? The answer is simple.
Our business model and our strong balance sheet allows us to focus on the long term and grow stronger during the downturns.
At this time I'd like to turn it over to Mr.
Frias our CFO for his comments.
Jim? Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
Third quarter 2011 earnings of $0.57 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of $0.45 to $0.55 per diluted share.
Our results increased more than eightfold over third quarter of 2010 earnings but decreased 39% from second quarter 2011 earnings of $0.94 per diluted share.
The third quarter 2011 effective tax rate measured as a percentage of earnings before income taxes and noncontrolling interests was 29.6%.
However after adjusting our profits belonging to our noncontrolling interests business partners the effective tax rate was 31.7%.
Excluding tax -- state income tax credits recorded during the quarter the effective tax rate would have been above 34%.
However the positive impact on earnings from the state tax credits was essentially offset by other nonrecurring items recorded in the third quarter.
As we expected third quarter results and profits were below our second quarter results.
The quarter-over-quarter decline was primarily due to lower prices and metal margins for sheet mill products.
The sheet market has been severely impacted by new domestic supply and increased imports.
Importantly Nucor continues to benefit from a diversified product mix.
In fact our bar mills and deck fabricating plants delivered solid improvement over their second quarter profitability.
Earnings at our plate mills were essentially flat with the second quarter.
However the trend for the plate mills was down through the quarter due to the impact of higher imports.
Our beam mill and downstream cold-finished bar businesses experienced a small decline in quarter-over-quarter results but continued to contribute solid profits.
Earnings per diluted share of $2.02 for the 9 months of 2011 represent a dramatic improvement from the year-ago period's earnings per share of $0.46.
That's an increase of 340%.
Cash generated from operations is also up strongly nearly triple the prior year period.
And Nucor's annualized return on equity through this year's first 9 months is a respectable 12%.
The Nucor team is achieving this performance in an economy which nonresidential construction square footage for 2011 is forecast to be more than 60% below the peak level reached in 2007.
Our returns are also achieved at the lowest financial leverage in the industry.
While construction remains our largest end-use market Nucor's unrivaled combination of product diversification and operational flexibility allows us to grow our participation in other more robust markets.
These include end-use markets such as automotive heavy equipment energy and general manufacturing.
Throughout Nucor our teammates are enjoying tremendous success developing new products as well as other continual improvement initiatives that both reduce costs and improve quality across our entire product portfolio.
It goes back to Dan's point that our team uses economic downturns as opportunities to grow stronger.
Emerging from downturns stronger than we enter them is how we build long-term value for our shareholders.
We get stronger because our financial strength allows us to invest in an attractive growth opportunities throughout the economic cycle.
At the close of the third quarter cash and short-term investments and restricted cash totaled over $3 billion.
The restricted cash is available to fund a significant portion of the DRI plant that we are building in Louisiana.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.3 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and does not mature until November 2012.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
Long-term debt totaled $4.3 billion at the end of the second quarter for a gross debt-to-capital ratio of 36%.
Moody's has reported that our debt-to-capital ratio will be viewed on a net debt basis for any cash and short-term investments balance over $1.2 billion.
Using that methodology our net debt-to-capital ratio is 29%.
That calculation excludes the restricted cash.
Looking ahead our debt-to-capital ratio is expected to decline as a result of upcoming long-term debt maturities of $650 million in 2012 and $250 million in 2013.
We expect to fund those maturities by drawing on our healthy liquidity position and continued strong operating cash flows.
Standard &amp; Poor's in its October 4 report entitled "North American Metals and Mining Companies Strongest to Weakest " again ranked Nucor #1 for credit rating and credit outlook among a universe of 64 companies.
Nucor was also the only metals and mining company in the group that S&amp;P awarded a strong business risk profile due to our competitive position and profit performance relative to our peers.
In 2011 we are continuing to invest in projects that will grow our long-term earnings power and provide attractive returns to our shareholders.
We project 2011 capital spending of approximately $475 million.
That is down from our prior estimate mainly due to the timing of expenditures for equipment at Nucor Steel Louisiana.
John Ferriola will give you an update on some of our more significant growth projects in his remarks.
Our outlook for the fourth quarter is tempered by the expectation of further margin compression in the sheet market due to the supply side pressures from new domestic supply and imports.
We also anticipate some margin oppression in the plate market due to increased imports.
This margin oppression for sheet and plate products may be cushioned somewhat by trend of lower scrap prices we see beginning to emerge in October.
Overall we expect Nucor's fourth quarter earnings to decline from the third quarter level.
Demand in end-use market such as automotive energy heavy equipment and general manufacturing remains firm but have shown very little improvement compared to the first half of 2011.
Nucor's combined construction businesses that's Long Products Steel Mills and downstream operations are expected to continue to operate profitably.
This profitability has been achieved even though we have seen no real improvement in nonresidential construction markets in 2011.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance around the middle of the final quarter -- excuse me around the middle of the final month of the quarter.
We are excited by the opportunities ahead to deliver higher highs and earnings when the inevitable cyclical recovery finally arrives.
Again the key to our performance and most importantly our ability to reward our shareholders is the flexibility diversification and sustainability found in our business model.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
Dan? Thank you Jim.
I will now ask John Ferriola to report on Nucor's operations.
John? Thanks Dan.
Good afternoon.
Let me begin by thanking all of our raw materials steelmaking and steel product teammates for your outstanding commitment to working safely and to taking care of Nucor's customers.
When I visit our operations I am always impressed and quite frankly inspired by the work of the more than 20 000 men and women of Nucor are doing every day to profitably grow our business for the long term.
Thank you and please keep it going.
Dan and Jim both mentioned the importance of Nucor's product diversification.
This is highlighted by quarter-over-quarter changes in our average selling prices.
Our third quarter sheet mill average selling price declined $94 per ton from the second quarter.
By contrast our composite steel mill average sales price decreased by just $44 per ton over this period.
Traumatic price erosion in the sheet market was cushioned by greater stability and the selling prices of our other steel mill products.
Our bar beam and plate mills combined provided 61% of Nucor's total steel mill shipments in the third quarter.
And our downstream steel products businesses realized a $20 per ton increase and they are composite third quarter average selling price from the second quarter level.
I want to reiterate an extremely important point that investors need to understand about Nucor.
Our business model with its flexibility diversification and sustainability is what drives Nucor's industry-leading through the cycle return on capital performance and our business model is getting stronger during this downturn.
I will provide brief updates on some of our initiatives to grow long-term earnings power.
Our team at the Memphis SBQ mill set new shipment and profitability records in the third quarter and Memphis continues to gain product qualifications and production volumes for OEMs in the construction equipment automotive heavy truck farm equipment and energy markets.
Our team at Nucor Steel Nebraska successfully started up a downstream processing line that provides new growth opportunities and even higher-quality SBQ products than they currently offer.
Our Sheet Mill Group continues to be successful at introducing new value-added products for a variety of end-use markets such as heavy equipment energy automotive railcar and metal framing.
Additional value-added steelmaking capabilities are on the horizon for Nucor.
Projects underway include a normalizing line and vacuum tank degasser at our North Carolina plate mill an equipment upgrade that will allow us to produce lighter gauge and wider product at our South Carolina sheet mill and a vacuum tank degasser at our Arkansas sheet mill.
Our David J.
Joseph team achieved record scrap export container shipments during the third quarter.
And DJJ continues to grow its businesses in other areas as well.
Nonferrous metals flotation facilities are being added in Tampa Florida and Louisville Kentucky.
Nucor's downstream businesses are gaining market share as the result of product innovations and commercial excellence in taking care of our customers.
Examples include the Vulcraft/Verco Groups 3D Building Information Modeling and the proprietary Ecospan composite floor system.
Nucor Building Systems group is growing its distribution network both in terms of quantity and quality.
And our Harris Steel Rebar Fabrication business continues to expand both its footprint and its product capabilities.
Our Nucor Steel Louisiana team is on schedule with the construction of our 2.5 million tons per year direct reduced iron or DRI facility.
Start-up is expected in mid-2013.
Combined with our new iron DRI facility in Trinidad the first module at Louisiana will bring us to about 2/3 of our goal to control 6 million to 7 million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes.
Greater control of high-quality iron use consumed at our steel mills will be a very high-return investment for Nucor.
The projects I just discussed and many others throughout our company demonstrate how downturns create opportunities for Nucor; opportunities for our long-term sustainable profitable growth.
That's the reason why we are very optimistic about our teams' ability to deliver higher highs and earnings when the inevitable cyclical recovery arrives.
Thank you for your interest in our company.
Dan? Thank you John.
The U.S.
economy continues to struggle to emerge from the Great Recession.
It has been unable to move to a path of vibrant and sustainable growth.
This is not surprising.
Our nation has failed to implement real solutions to eliminate the unsustainable structural imbalances that are driving our economy deeper and deeper into a hole of little or no growth.
Our team has been adamant and consistent over the past 3 years with our views on the way forward to a stronger and more sustainable American economy.
And we require real solutions that eliminate the structural imbalances and at the same time create what our economy needs most: jobs jobs and more jobs.
This can be accomplished with a multi-pronged plan for the U.S.
to achieve new energy independence enforce rules-based free trade to build our crumbling infrastructure reform and simplify the tax code and reduce the burden of excessive regulation on our economy.
I would like to comment on 2 developments regarding enforcement of our nation's trade laws.
First the United States Senate last week passed a bipartisan currency exchange rate oversight reformat of 2011.
This legislation is exactly the kind of strong and bipartisan action our government must take to hold China accountable for its protectionist trade policies.
China's failure to engage in rules-based trade a commitment it agreed to when it became a member of the World Trade Organization and achieved favored nation trading status in the United States has destroyed millions of good paying American jobs.
It is now time for the United States House of Representatives to pass this bill.
It will be a big step forward in restoring free and fair competition in our global trading system.
The idea that somehow this action will create a trade war is both ludicrous and ignorant with an emphasis on ignorant.
Why? Because we have been in a trade war waged by the Chinese government for 16 years except that our government has yet to join the fight and we are losing miserably.
The evidence you say where is it? Try a greater than a $2.2 trillion trade deficit with China over the last 11 years greater than $2.2 trillion in manufactured goods over the last 11 years.
American manufacturing American jobs and the American middle class have borne the brunt of this trade war.
It is time to say enough is enough and act legally to hold them accountable.
This is one area that the current administration has done a better job of than the previous Clinton and Bush administrations but it is still way short of what is needed.
The second development is the U.S.
International Trade Commission's Sunset Review of anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders on cut-to-length plate from India Indonesia Italy Japan and Korea.
Maintaining these orders is critical to the health of the U.S.
plate market.
These orders will help to ensure that illegally traded plate imports from these countries do not return to the U.S.
market as they once did.
Free and fair trade in the U.S.
plate market is an absolute requirement for Nucor to continue investing capital and adding jobs in this business.
These are extremely challenging and uncertain times for the overall economy and the steel industry.
However one thing is for certain and it is very much under our control.
The Nucor team will meet any and all challenges head on and turn them into opportunities.
We are primed and ready to continue growing stronger.
That is exactly what our team has been doing for more than 4 decades.
At this time we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Kuni Chen with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one about your view on supply in the market.
Obviously we have short lead times here on flat-rolleds.
You talked about some of the new competitors making waves in the market.
When I think about flat-rolled pricing right now the pricing structure seems to be more driven by cost push as scrap and iron ore go up and down.
When you think about kind of what level we need to get back to have more pricing power in flat-rolled what kind of lead times do you think that correlates to? It wouldn't be appropriate to be getting into conversations about pricing power but I will make 2 comments.
One in today's environment the raw material push-pull is not what's driving pricing in the marketplace.
What's driving pricing in the marketplace is a massive overcapacity that's being created by additional new capacity coming on stream increased imports from overseas particularly in flat-rolled and a demand in their economy that is not growing any measurable rate at this point in time.
And that complete supply-demand situation is what is dictating pricing in the marketplace today more than raw materials because raw materials have been fairly steady over the past little while.
So that'd be the only comments I would make on that.
We'll go next to Arun Viswanathan with Susquehanna Brokers.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So I guess basically similar types of concerns on my end to Kuni's.
I was just wondering are you seeing any signs yet of matching production with demand out there? It seems like the industry is still oversupplying the market.
And would you guys take a leadership position potentially to bring down production if needed to reduce supply? Boy what a loaded question.
Listen I'm not going to comment on what should or shouldn't be done out there.
All I can do is tell you how Nucor handles its operating rates and production rates and it's based upon the level of orders we get in.
We're very competitive in the marketplace.
We will continue to be very competitive and meet all competitive challenges out there.
And how much we run or don't run is completely predicated upon the order entry level we get.
As has been mentioned the lead times are very short particularly in the flat-rolled side.
So I mean the order entry that we're reacting to is what we see on a week-to-week month-to-month basis and more towards the week-to-week right now.
And we have the luxury at our facilities electric furnace shops of literally being able to turn the light switch on at a moment's notice.
If the orders pick up we increase production instantaneously.
If the orders go down we decrease the production instantaneously.
And our customers dictate and our success at attracting our customers' orders dictates how much we run.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Yes that is kind of what I was wondering about.
And then I guess similarly I'm just curious your mix seemed a little bit better this quarter on the whole and do you expect further price declines in the fourth quarter and that's why you're somewhat cautious in your comments in the release as far as earnings in the fourth quarter being lower than the third quarter.
What's driving behind that commentary? Well there's a number of things that influence our mix and I'll let John talk to that.
There was one comment that was just made to me by Jim Frias and that is we had the impact in the second quarter of the tornadoes that occurred in Alabama on 2 of our mills our plate mill -- it's a really a combo plate mill/sheet mill in Tuscaloosa and our sheet mill in Decatur.
So that did have some influence on mix.
John do you happen to have any comments on that? The only comment I'd make in terms of mix I assume you mean that in all of our products we're moving higher into the value-added products and that's a conscious decision we've made on all of our product lines in plate in bars in SBQ and in flat-rolled.
And obviously that's a reaction to many things to market needs and also the import situation.
Imports basically are driven by commodity items.
And by continuing to move further up the value chain we gain a little bit of protection from that and we find new ways and new products to grow our market share.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes I guess just to clarify then so your average prices were up sequentially from the first quarter to second quarter somewhat commensurate with flat-rolled benchmarks.
But in the third quarter you seemed to hold price better than the industry benchmark.
And so I was just wondering if you were potentially selling out of backlog or what really drove that? Was it mix improvement? And then does that mean that fourth quarter you're going to see some of the price declines that actually were going to impact third quarter? No to the last point that you just made.
And our product diversification is just -- as really all 3 of us have discussed in our present prepared remarks.
And John emphasized it's the product diversification the strength of the nonsheet operations that enabled us to have a better price -- overall price performance during the third quarter.
We'll go next to Tony Rizzuto with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe I'm splitting hairs here but when I look at the guidance that you have on the release and your comments I would say that the guidance you gave for the fourth quarter is a little bit more constructive than in the previous quarter.
And I'm wondering first of all is that a fair statement? And if this is the case how much of this outlook has to do with what you guys are doing to -- in your efforts to penetrate new markets and move up the value-added chain? That's my first question.
Let me -- let us take a shot at that first.
Help me understand why you feel like the guidance for the fourth quarter -- what was the word you used? More constructive than...
LLC Research Division</strong> A little bit more constructive.
When I look at some of the verbiage used in the prior quarter at the end of the quarter for the 3Q if you will.
Yes.
Without having that -- those exact words in front of us I really don't see where there should be much of a difference between the 2.
Our guidance is completely qualitative at this point in time.
We are indicating that there will be a reduction in our profitability because of the -- of this particular the situation in the sheet market.
And -- but there is something that we are seeing right now that we didn't see coming into the third quarter and that is there seemed to be moderation in the scrap pricing that may continue throughout the quarter which will help us on margin retention.
But how that all shakes out? There's a lag time between what we purchase on scrap and the pricing we pay and then what the usage numbers are and the costs for the scrap that show up.
Usually there's a 2- to 4-week lag time between purchases and usage depending upon the inventory levels at the mills themselves.
So that's a little bit of an unknown.
It's floating out there but that should be an unknown that breaks in a positive direction rather than in a negative one.
So maybe that's the reason for it Tony.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right understood.
Appreciate that Dan.
And then just another question too.
Is this the kind of market obviously a slow growth environment in which you guys believe strongly that you can excel because of what you're doing and how you're differentiating the company versus others in the industry? Absolutely absolutely.
And that's not just words that's shows up in the results.
It's shown up in the results for the third quarter.
It's shown up in the results for our year-to-date numbers over last year.
And it shows up throughout history of the company including the last 11 years that this executive team has been lucky enough to lead this company.
So yes we absolutely believe it.
And it's our strong financial position and our strong business model that gives us the confidence to be able to say that and our teammates who are out there every day finding new ways better ways safer ways to do things.
We'll go next to Brian Yu with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dan I've got more of a strategy I guess type of question.
With DRI you're obviously taking control of your carbon costs.
There's been some announcements on the iron side.
I want to see what your thoughts are on perhaps taking control of your own destiny on this ferrous side too.
Well what we're doing on the direct reduced iron side it doesn't take us all the way to the beginning of the process which would be mining.
But it does give us more control over production distribution channels how far those distribution channels are stretched out which had a very negative impact on us in the '08-'09 downturn with the pig iron.
And with the natural gas situation here in the United States being extremely competitive it gives us a cost advantage in many respects as well even without to control over the iron ore.
And I think that's what you're alluding to is us getting into the mining business.
That's certainly a possibility that under the right set of opportunities that we would be willing to partner with somebody that we're involved in getting access to our own iron ore.
I wouldn't rule that out but there's nothing imminent that we are about to announce.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question just on the export I think your data's been tracking 9% to 10% of shipments.
Given what's happening in Europe any updates on that percentage? And then subcomponent can you differentiate between how much of what you're doing is contract versus like spot business for exports? On exports? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes I'll take a shot at that Dan.
Our third quarter was a good quarter for us in terms of exporting products.
We had been as you mentioned we've been running about a 9% or 10%.
In the third quarter we exported about 13.3% of our products.
Again most of it going into the Central and South American region.
In terms of contract versus spot on exports very little of it is contract business on exports.
Most of it is spot business.
Yes it is something that as we develop our spot business we're getting more interest in from the customers in South and Central America in developing a longer-term supplier relationship.
And I might actually build on that and say that to do that you have to have certain infrastructure in place.
And in Colombia we have just put our first depot.
It opened up about a month ago.
Our first shipment arrived about 3 weeks ago and we're really excited about that.
The Colombian market has been a good market for us.
Our sales teams there are doing a great job and our products are well accepted.
And as we continue to move in that direction we will continue to move up the value chain and that lends itself to more contract business as we go forward.
Also one of the things that we're really excited about is the way that we've managed the logistics into that area because of our DRI facility in Trinidad and bringing the DRI back to the states.
We've built a circular route which has really helped us on our freight costs sending product into South and Central America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you get a little bit of freight advantage on the backhaul? Yes a little bit more than a little bit.
It actually is quite a significant freight advantage and it's given us an edge in our ability to export our products successfully into those countries.
The addition of -- the passage of the Colombia Free Trade Agreement possibly the Panamanian one will also reduce some of the tariffs we've had to pay with our product versus our competition and make us even more competitive down there.
And hopefully result in even stronger margins.
Research Division</strong> So what type of product are you sending down there? Everything.
And just to build on the freight situation and talking about having the advantage to some of our competition because we can ship every type of product down there it allows us to send full boatloads now.
We send sheet down there.
We sent beam down there.
We send plate down there.
We send bar down there SBQ down there.
So we're able to fill up a load without having to depend upon a single product shipment to the region.
And hopefully we're going to be start to ship down metal buildings and joists and deck and other things too.
We'll go next to Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the construction market.
Your language changed a little bit in your press release here too.
Only a minimal improvement from slowly improving in the last quarter.
I wondered if there's -- if that was something that was done to -- you kind of show that things may be turning down a little bit.
And maybe also if you can comment on where you're seeing your backlogs in the fabrication business as an indicator of construction.
Well all that's maintained a fairly steady pace but at obviously a very low rate.
And the reason for our change in the wording had to do with the recent information that came out from the AISC the American Institute and Steel Construction and others that were actually showing that instead of a 5% gain in nonresidential construction in 2011 we were going to end up with a 1% to 2% fall-off negative growth.
And that's why our comments were as worded.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And backlogs have they changed much in fab? They've been pretty consistent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one more and I know this might be difficult for you to comment on.
But just given the recent activism over at CMC would you consider any of their assets that make particular strategic sense under Nucor and should the opportunity arise down the road here? All I can say is that all along Nucor has put itself in the position of the opportunistic.
And if opportunities come our way we'll certainly take a look at them.
Whether or not we would on that particular asset is something that we probably should avoid commenting on.
We'll go next to David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Just with respect to the calendar I mean we're getting pretty close to the end of the year now what are you hearing anecdotally from your customers with respect to maybe any kind of pickup in orders in the first quarter of next year? John? Well as you know at the end of the year our customers focus on inventory control.
And the first part of the year the first quarter for us most of our products typically pick up as those inventories that had been depleted in the fourth quarter are rebuilt.
And we're hearing pretty much the same this year.
We expect the first quarter from our customers' perspective to be a stronger order entry quarter in most of our products.
I think you have -- in addition to the inventory situation you have the seasonal things that take place lawn and garden for example will come back in.
As you get later into the first quarter people start thinking about construction as limited as it is again.
So the seasonal impact we think will be positive.
Do you think you'll see any -- above and beyond the seasonal pattern do you think you're going to see any cyclical improvement first quarter versus first quarter? No.
I guess second question if I could.
Just you've talked a lot about investing in the downturn and strategically why has -- at least historically that's made a lot of sense for you.
I know that your start-up costs were down about $17 million this quarter and it looks like you're probably getting pretty close to the end of the portfolio of projects.
Should we expect any additional major capital investments going forward? Yes the answer to that is yes.
Things are winding down with respect to start-ups but not with respect to our investments.
Jim you want to add anything? Yes.
The other thing to keep in mind is that the DRI price from Louisiana is early in its life and so it's making small charges to start-up costs today.
But as it gets closer to its actual start-up date we'll be ramping up employment there.
And those start-up costs will rise.
So you'll see that ramp up with the growth of that project.
And we have a few others that we didn't mention in particular in the script that will also come into play in 2012 one being the new processing center in Monterey which we expect to be coming online towards the end of the second half of next year.
And we also are beginning construction on a new processing facility in central Mexico also.
Okay.
Can you give us a sense of what we should expect the start-up costs for fourth quarter? They'll probably decline slightly maybe $4 million or so in the fourth quarter from the third quarter level.
We'll go next to Carly Mattson with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Given Nucor's -- your large cash balance and ample liquidity could you rank order cash uses and in that context talk about what types of growth opportunities Nucor could be most interested in beyond the organic side just more broadly speaking? Well first off our use of cash is always geared towards growth first second and third.
And during these down periods we're looking for those growth opportunities both in our existing operations and with additions of new capacities or new businesses.
So that will always be our first focus.
As you know we have a strong dividend being paid over 4%.
And the our policy on that dividend performance is to keep it strong.
When things get better like we did the last time probably look at an enhanced dividend payout based upon performance.
But principally our focus is on growing the future earnings of the company and that's where our capital will be allocated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as far as just the general parts the different areas of the business is there a particular area that you see more opportunities than in another? Well across the board we're adding to our ability to go up the value chain whether it be in bar products or sheet products or plate products and to discuss all of those individual programs at length both in this call here and others.
We've also discussed looking at growing our plate business with an additional plate opportunity as the markets support that.
And so as far as opportunities with respect to acquisitions and what have you again we remain opportunistic there.
We have the balance sheet and cash flow that support those types of things but you have to have willing partners when you go forward-looking acquisition.
John? Yes I would add to that Dan in addition to moving up value chain with our existing products we're also focused on developing new products entering into new markets.
Geographically new customers and growing our market share from the new products.
The work that our team has done over the last 2 years in that area is nothing short of phenomenal nothing short of phenomenal.
The one thing I want to emphasize as we've talked about before is that our movement up the value chain is not one of abdication of the more "commodity-type products." It's true growth because we -- our focus is on maintaining and growing our position throughout the value chain both at the basic commodity-type product levels whether they be downstream products or steel mill products and adding to our repertoire by moving up further into the higher value add which is an opportunity.
So that's where the real growth comes from.
It's not one of vacating one spot to move into another but expanding throughout the value chain.
We'll go next to Mark Parr with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of things.
I wanted to talk about the SBQ market and congratulations on the successful ramp-ups that you have going on there.
Could you give us just an overview now of what your overall SBQ capacity looks like say today compared to where it was 2 years ago? And also John I was wondering if you or one of the operating guys would like to maybe perhaps give us an update on OEM customer qualifications from Memphis.
What's your goal is for that facility and how that's progressing? Well let me start with just some general comments about SBQ and then Jim you might jump in with some customer specific -- customers in terms of qualification okay? All right.
In general if you go back a couple of years 2 or 3 years ago SBQ represented about 10% of our bar -- total bar shipments.
Today we've moved that up to about 20% or 21% of our bar shipments.
So there's been a real focus on growth and we've been very successful in that area.
Not only through the introduction of Memphis and its products but also continuing to expand on Norfolk Nebraska facility both in terms of volume and in new products.
Jim any specific comments on qualification? I don't want to name any particular customers but we are focused in automotive heavy truck.
Yes as we've ramped up the production capacity at Memphis we've also participated in qualifying our engineered bar our engineered SBQ bar to go into the engineered bar industry of heavy equipment applications.
And some of the products that we're now qualified for are steering knuckles ring gears differential gears spindles camshaft axles and crankshafts.
And these are in the heavy equipment heavy truck in automotive industries.
Research Division</strong> Any thought just in terms of what percentage of your SBQ business you'd like to see from an OEM perspective as opposed to service center? Say that again I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> I'm just thinking what's your -- do you have a target for mix between OE and service center out of the SBQ operation? I don't know if we have a target.
Our participation has been about 30% in distribution and about 60% in OEM.
And typically in SBQ that's about the right mix you'll find in SBQ.
But it's much more OEM-driven than service center driven because of the qualification and trial process.
Yes.
And one other thing I'd like to add on the products too we produced a lot of semi-finished and gained a lot of acceptance going into the energy industry in the form of seamless tubing.
Research Division</strong> I see it coming up Route 57 into Lorain all the time.
Yes.
I think the amount of SBQ we're doing today is on the order of 1.6 million tons is that right? Yes 1.6 million.
And growing.
And growing.
There's still a lot of growth opportunity in front of us.
Research Division</strong> That's still an underserved market so I mean that's -- I think it's a great place to be focusing attention on.
We'll go next to Luke Folta with Jeffries.
A couple of questions.
Just to follow up quick on the potential move into iron ore mining at some point.
Can you give us a sense of where this is on a priority list? Is this something that you are actively pursuing right now or is it something that if a good opportunity came up you might look at it but you're not really actively looking at right now? Well our focus over the last several years has had a raw material -- large raw material component to it.
Started off with the David J.
Joseph acquisition the -- and prior to that the Trinidad DRI facility.
And so the whole focus on raw material strategy is a high-priority area.
How far it actually takes us remains to be seen yet and we are open to opportunities for growth both on the iron side and the DRI side and the scrap side.
So that's really all I would want to comment on that right now in terms of what might be going on right now.
When we have something to talk about we're certainly present it.
Okay.
And the second question just you talk a lot about having a positive longer-term outlook for energy.
And just speaking through it I mean OCTG is an area of the market where you're not currently participating.
And I -- just thinking through your longer-term strategy are there any constraints whether they'd be customer relationships or equipment restrictions on -- for substrate that would prevent you from moving into that market? There's no restrictions from a quality capability standpoint or equipment standpoint.
I mean obviously if we were going to get into producing pipe products seamless or otherwise that would require new equipment because we're not in that business today.
But we do supply a significant amount of our steel to customers in that arena.
So it's something that you constantly are looking at because the size of that potential size of that market could be quite significant.
So we haven't ruled out getting into that business ourselves.
But for the foreseeable future our focus is on supplying increased amounts of quality product to our customers who serve those markets.
Okay.
And just lastly there's -- just in response to that question earlier about whether or not certain Long Products assets may or may not become available to the market.
I'm just curious to know how do you think about valuation in a scenario like that as a strategic buyer of construction-oriented long products.
I mean obviously we're probably not going to see anything close to what we've seen over the last few years from a volume perspective but how do you think about how you might value something like that if certain of those assets became available? Basically the only comment I would make on that is that we're always looking to achieve the maximum value from the least amount of investment.
And we'll take our last question from Sal Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Q4 is generally a seasonally slower demand period.
Besides the margin pressure from excess supply of sheet the slowdown if you are seeing any and if you will see is it a commensurate with the equity market reaction what we have seen in the stock prices? Well I'll tell you what if we had a market that was reacting the way the stock market is we'd be vacillating it from jumping off the top of the building to digging a bunker someplace and thank goodness we don't have that situation.
So I would not say that it's in specific short terms related to what's going on in the equity markets.
Certainly what's going on in the equity markets and what's not going on with the leadership in our government and in Washington that all weighs very heavily on the private sector including the steel sector because as the economy goes so does steel consumption.
And in a very very strong way the additional increases of steel consumption don't take place until we're growing north of 2.5%.
So that's the big issue.
And the market -- the equity markets are just reacting to the tremendous uncertainty.
And on top of that it's more like the craps table at Vegas than it is a true investment situation in Wall Street anymore.
So that adds its own degree of complexity in.
Thank goodness that -- as rough as things are in the steel business we haven't degenerated to that level yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question.
Your losses in the affiliates was significantly higher I think higher since early 2008.
I was just wondering -- and the year-end profit last year last quarter.
It was either something to do with seasonality or something else going on over there and I think it's mostly Italian joint venture in there? Yes it's mostly Italian joint venture Sal.
And when we talked about the fact that our state tax credits were offset by some miscellaneous adjustments there's a little bit of that in there and there is some seasonality there as well for -- there has been some lower profits or some increase losses at the Italian facilities as well.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference back over for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Stacy.
I would like to thank everyone involved in the call.
Excellent questions that we received.
And close by again saying thank you to all of our teammates our customers our suppliers and our shareholders for your support.
And with the programs that we have in place and the opportunities that we are taking advantage of and of course best years are truly in front of us.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risk and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's websites.
The forward-looking statements made in the conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan DiMicco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Marissa.
Good afternoon.
Again this is Dan DiMicco Nucor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call today.
And as always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: Our President and Chief Operating Officer John Ferriola; Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey over our Long Products group; Keith Grass over our Scrap and Raw Materials group; Ladd Hall over our Flat-Rolled and DRI group; Ham Lott over our Downstream Fabricated Products; and Joe Stratman heading up Business Development and our Plate &amp; Beam business.
First and most importantly I want to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin and Steel Technologies teams for their excellent work in an economic environment that remained extremely challenging in 2011.
Together we are continuing to deliver on our goal of taking care of our customers.
We define our customers as our fellow teammates the people who buy and use our products and our shareholders who trust us to provide attractive returns on their capital invested in Nucor.
Thank you all.
Earnings increased almost sixfold in 2011 to $778 million from 2010's net income of $134 million.
This improvement was achieved despite severely depressed nonresidential construction markets which in 2011 remained more than 60% below the peak level reached in 2007.
How did our team accomplish this performance? Nucor's superior competitive position with our unrivaled financial strength product diversification and operational flexibility which allows us to grow during the periods -- to grow stronger during the periods of economic distress.
In 2011 we were able to expand our participation in markets enjoying more robust demand which you'll hear more about later.
Throughout our company the more than 20 000 men and women of Nucor are enjoying outstanding success developing new products reducing costs and improving quality across Nucor's entire product portfolio.
What do I mean when I say that our team is building a stronger Nucor? By a stronger Nucor I'm describing one position to deliver higher highs and higher lows in earnings power throughout successful economic cycles.
That type of performance has a long tradition at Nucor and one we plan on continuing.
The most recent example being the investments we made last year that were major contributors to a sixfold increase in cyclical peak earnings from $311 million in 2000 to more than $1.8 billion in 2008.
And the Nucor team's work growing long-term earnings power and shareholder value is ongoing.
Over the 2008 through 2012 period Nucor will have invested more than $6 billion of capital with a disciplined execution of our 5-pronged growth strategy.
The bottom line is that Nucor is primed and ready for new higher highs in earnings once the sustainable economic recovery inevitably arrives.
In 2012 we expect to see continued growth in sales and earnings for Nucor albeit in a slow-growth U.S.
economy burdened by a challenging regulatory and overall business environment.
Uncertainties in Europe's financial sector will weigh on both global and U.S.
growth in 2012.
But in short we are cautiously optimistic for the year coming up.
Fortunately there are solutions to the serious problems threatening our nation's economic well-being a move back to creating making and building things as the major driver of our economy's growth and the growth of the American middle class is long overdue.
The idea that a service-dominated economy alone can provide substantial wealth creation is a hugely failed business model that's proven over and over again in the last 20 years.
It has given us ill-advised government policies and financial sector business practices that have created one economic bubble after another culminating with the great financial collapse and panic of 2008 that is still with us today.
The U.S.-based manufacturing holds the key to reinvigorated growth for our country in the years and decades to come.
The time is right the opportunity is here for us to seize and the path forward is clear and the naysayers should go back into their closets.
New opportunities in energy infrastructure and rebuilding our infrastructure revitalizing our manufacturing sector are shouting out to us as the path forward for future generations of Americans that have the opportunity earn a rising standard of living.
This is the path that will create the 30 million net jobs we need over the next 5 to 7 years while rebuilding our economy our tax base our middle class and our global competitiveness.
We at Nucor working together with our partners in the domestic and multinational manufacturing community are applying our can-do attitude and energy level to shine a bright light on this exciting path forward.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to discuss our fourth quarter and year-end results.
Following Jim's comments President and CEO John Ferriola will report on our operations and the implementation of our current growth initiatives.
Jim? Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
Fourth quarter 2011 earnings of $0.43 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of $0.22 to $0.27 per diluted share.
A portion of that outperformance resulted from a lower-than-expected LIFO charge and 2 nonrecurring items.
The quarter's LIFO charge of $52 million was approximately $27 million less than the estimate used in our mid-December guidance.
A noncash gain of $29 million was recognized in the fourth quarter for the correction of an actuarial calculation related to the medical plan covering certain eligible early retirees.
And our equity and earnings of unconsolidated affiliates included a favorable year-end tax adjustment of approximately $7 million.
Together these items increased fourth quarter earnings by about $0.13 per diluted share.
Excluding the effect of these items earnings still exceeded our fourth quarter guidance range.
Nucor's fourth quarter performance benefited from stronger-than-expected volumes and margins in December.
The fourth quarter 2011 effective tax rate measured as a percent of earnings before taxes and noncontrolling interest was 29.4%.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our noncontrolling interest business partners the effective tax rate was 32.5%.
Full year 2011 earnings per diluted share of $2.45 represent significant improvement from 2010 earnings of $0.42.
Nucor's return on equity for 2011 was 11% a respectable level for a year in which our Steel Mill capacity utilization rate was only 74% in continuing depressed market conditions.
Our returns were achieved with the lowest financial leverage in the industry.
While construction remains our largest end-use market Nucor's 2011 profit improvement reflects our company's unrivaled product diversification and initial returns from our ongoing strategy to grow long-term earnings power.
It goes back to Dan's point that our team uses economic downturns as opportunities to grow stronger.
Emerging from downturns stronger than we entered them is how we build long-term value for our shareholders.
We get stronger because our financial strength allows us to invest in attractive growth opportunities through the economic cycle.
Nucor again generated healthy cash flow with cash provided by the operating activities of more than $1 billion in 2011.
Regarding the cash flow generating capacity of our expanding platforms and the Steel Products business here's a noteworthy statistic.
Through the current downturn average annual cash generated from operations from 2009 through 2011 more than doubled the amount generated during the last downturn from 2001 through 2003.
Our growth strategy's objective is higher-highs and higher-lows in the returns achieved through successive business cycles.
Cash short-term investments and restricted cash totaled over $3.1 billion at the end of 2011.
Restricted cash of $586 million is available to fund a significant portion of the DRI plant we're building in Louisiana.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity in December we increased the size of our unsecured revolving credit facility by $200 million to $1.5 billion.
The facility is undrawn and does not mature until December 2016.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
Long-term debt totaled $4.3 billion at the end of 2011.
We expect our leverage to decline as a result of upcoming long-term debt maturities of $650 million this year and $250 million in 2013.
Our plan is to fund these maturities by drawing from our healthy liquidity position and continued strong operating cash flow.
Nucor has earned the highest credit rating awarded to any metals and mining company in North America an Aa2 rating from Moody's and an A rating from Standard &amp; Poor's.
Our company is the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the very important competitive advantage of an investment grade rating.
To that point Standard &amp; Poor's in their January 9 report entitled North American Metals and Mining Companies Strongest to Weakest again ranked new Nucor #1 for credit rating and credit outlook among the universe of 68 companies.
Nucor was also the only metals and mining company in the group that S&amp;P awarded a strong business risk profile due to our competitive position and profit performance relative to our peers.
In 2012 we are continuing to invest in projects that will grow our long-term earnings power and provide attractive returns to our shareholders.
We project 2012 capital spending of approximately $1 billion or more than double the 2011 capital spending of $441 million.
2012's capital spending at our Louisiana DRI project is expected to increase to approximately $450 million from about $50 million in 2011.
John Ferriola will review additional exciting growth projects that we will initiate in 2012.
In addition to allowing us to invest in attractive growth opportunities Nucor's strong financial position and cash flow generation has enabled our company to build an impressive record of cash dividends paid to our shareholders and total shareholder return.
In December Nucor's Board of Directors increased our regular or base dividend for the 39th consecutive year.
Reflecting the Nucor's team success in growing long-term earnings power the base quarterly dividend has increased approximately tenfold over the past 11 years.
Further during that same time period Nucor has delivered a total return of 464%.
Let me repeat that.
Over that 11-year period Nucor has delivered a total shareholder return of 464%.
That compares with 174% for the Standard &amp; Poor's Steel Group Index and 4% for the S&amp;P 500.
For the first quarter of 2012 we expect earnings to improve from the fourth quarter 2011 level after adjusting for the onetime benefits received in the fourth quarter.
Several end-use markets such as automotive heavy equipment energy and general manufacturing have continued to experience improvement in demand benefiting SBQ sheet and plate products in particular.
We're also seeing small but encouraging signs of improvement in our construction products businesses.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance around the middle of the final month of the quarter.
We are excited by the opportunities we see ahead to reward our shareholders with very attractive long-term returns.
Our competitive advantages will continue to be the flexibility diversification and sustainability found in Nucor's business model.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
Dan? Thank you Jim.
I'll now ask John Ferriola to report on Nucor's operations.
John? Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
Let me begin by thanking all of our raw material steelmaking and steel product teammates for your outstanding commitment to working safely and to taking care of Nucor's customers.
I am always inspired when I visit our operations and see firsthand the impressive work you are doing to profitably grow our businesses for the long term.
You are Nucor's most powerful competitive advantage the right people living our culture every day.
Thank you and please keep it up.
Dan and Jim both discussed the value of Nucor's business model.
Our business model with its flexibility diversification and sustainability is why Nucor is in an unrivaled position of strength and taking advantage of our strengths is how we expect to continue delivering industry-leading through-the-cycle return on capital performance.
Our 2011 results again highlight the bottom line benefits we gain from Nucor being North America's most diversified steel and steel products manufacturer.
Impressive year-over-year profit growth was achieved by our plate mills and our bar mills.
Also contributing solid 2011 profitable growth were our sheet mill beam deck cold- finished bar and scrap businesses.
Our diverse and growing product portfolio combined with our operational flexibility is allowing us to grow our presence in end-use markets such as automotive heavy equipment energy and general manufacturing; markets that are currently enjoying more robust growth.
Our 2011 performance demonstrated another compelling aspect of the Nucor story.
Our company has a proven track record of using our strong balance sheet and cash flow to prepare for the good times during the bad times.
Many of the investments we have made during the current downturn are already paying off for us.
Here are some examples.
The newest additions to our bar mill group our special bar quality mill in Memphis Tennessee; and our wire rod and rebar bar mill in Kingman Arizona both achieved profitability last year.
Our Hertford County North Carolina plate mill's new heat-treat line has been sold out since March of 2011.
We are growing our presence in higher-margin products where higher strength abrasion resistance and greater toughness are required.
The heat-treat line has also allowed us to improve the product mix allocation between our 2 plate mills and 4 sheet mills which enabled us to improve margins at those facilities.
And more value-added plate products are on the way with the vacuum tank degasser and normalizing line currently being installed at Hertford County.
Our Nebraska SBQ mill's new quality assurance line was completed in 2011 and is already providing us growth opportunities in higher-margin SBQ products.
Our downstream businesses including rebar fabrication joist deck and pre-engineered metal buildings continued to grow their long-term earnings power in 2011 by expanding both their geographical footprint and their product offerings.
Our David J.
Joseph team expanded their overall footprint and also grew their nonferrous metals sortation capacity.
Looking ahead we see more extremely attractive opportunities to continue growing Nucor's long-term earnings power.
In December our board approved projects totaling $290 million at our Tennessee Nebraska and South Carolina SBQ mills that will expand Nucor's SBQ and wire rod capacity by 1 million tons.
These investments position Nucor to meet the growing needs of our engineered bar customers in a number of attractive markets that include automotive energy heavy truck and heavy equipment.
We expect to complete each of these projects by the end of 2013 subject to regulatory approvals.
Nucor continues to grow our value-added capabilities in the sheet market.
At our Hickman Arkansas sheet mill we are installing a vacuum degasser.
As the westernmost flat-rolled facility in the United States with a vacuum degasser Hickman will be strategically positioned to take advantage of the growing markets of the Southwest United States and Mexico.
The degasser should be operating by the end of this year.
At our Berkeley County South Carolina sheet mill capital has been approved to allow the facility to produce wider and lighter gauge hot rolled sheet steel.
With the planned modifications Berkeley will be able to produce a 74-inch wide hot band with the downstream products such as pickled and oiled and cold-rolled being produced at a finished width of 72 inches.
We will also be sending cold-rolled output from our Berkeley facility to our Decatur Alabama sheet mill to produce 72-inch wide galvanized sheet steel.
This wide light project at Berkeley will enhance the ability of the entire Nucor Sheet Mill Group to continue to move up the value chain in flat-rolled markets.
I am also pleased to report that our Louisiana DRI project is proceeding on schedule.
The full management team is in place and construction is well underway.
Startup is expected in mid-2013.
Completion of the first 2.5 million tons per year module in Louisiana combined with our existing DRI plant in Trinidad will bring us to about 2/3 of our goal to control from 6 million to 7 million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes.
In summary our team's unrelenting focus remains on long-term sustainable growth in Nucor's profitability.
Thank you for your interest in our company.
Dan? Thank you John.
I want to again thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David Joseph Duferdofin and Steel Technologies teams for working safely working hard working smart and working together.
You are the reason that I could say with the greatest confidence that Nucor's best is yet to come.
Before moving on to questions I would like to read a favorite quote of mine.
"Some people make things happen.
Some people watch things happen.
Other people wonder what happened.
The rest often criticize those that make things happen.
Be part of the solution not part of the problem.
Remember this is your world.
Shape it or someone else will." We would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sohail Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dan couple of questions.
First on the DRI.
When you planned this project last year you had mentioned about locking in natural gas price at a very good price.
Since then natural gas prices have collapsed further and I was wondering if that mechanism allows you to renegotiate the index of the market price so that your costs also will go down if the natural gas price does remain low by the time this project starts.
Well we're not locked in to a financial instrument.
We are actually involved in drilling and in a joint venture partnership.
And the cost per unit million BTU of natural gas as we are producing it and where pricing is today does not put us at a competitive disadvantage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is a comment in your press release about scrap flat to down.
I thought that the scrap was up in actually January.
Is it the flow scrap that you have a 1-month lag that's currently down because you'll be using the December scrap in January? Well we always do have a lag between our purchase of scrap and when it shows up in our production of steel.
And you're right we are saying that scrap will be down moderately as we go into February driven by we've had a pretty mild winter and Nucor has made some pretty strategic overseas buys which will be arriving in the February timeframe.
But we do expect longer term scrap pricing to rebound probably in the March timeframe.
Because at the end of the day it's still winter steel mill production is still steady and the dollar is depreciating.
So short term we see sideways to moderately down.
Longer term we see it rebounding.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> John you made a comment about being able to make 72-inch bands at Berkeley and I was hoping you could maybe give some more color on what the significance of that is and what markets that puts you in and how that changes your exposure there.
Well first of all just to get the facts straight.
We will be making 74-inch of hot band at Berkeley.
The finished product downstream cold-rolled and galvanized will be coming off at 72-inch.
Obviously that opens up many opportunities for us in the market particularly in appliances and in automotive.
The wider product is required for automotive applications as you get further into the value-added products up to and including exposed automotive.
Also it gives us some advantages in our pipe and tube markets as you can have a wider product with more slits and brings more value to the customer.
I should also point out let me point out that you referenced the width but don't discard the fact that we will be making a lighter gauge.
We'll be able to have extra additional strength which also gives us new applications in automotive and in other areas also.
So the lighter gauge the extra mill stand will give us higher strength product to bring into the market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the SBQ press release that was out yesterday it sounds like it's an additional 1 million tons.
I shouldn't read that -- first I shouldn't read that as additional steelmaking capacity it seems like it's more downstream or finishing capacity.
And then also can you give us a sense of does this -- I mean is this basically more of the same products you're producing or does this put you in a different part of that market as well? Okay first of all it will be additional capacity that we will be producing.
I want to be very clear about this.
As we bring additional SBQ capacity online in our facilities we will not be surrendering or abandoning any of our merchant or rebar products or customers.
So it will be additional capacity.
And it really isn't just more of the same.
Many of the projects that we will be doing over the next 2 years will get us in to new products.
We're basically expanding our size range and our grade range.
The wide block and line upgrading [ph] in South Carolina and in our Darlington facility will allow us to expand our size range in Darlington.
In Nebraska we'll be adding a fifth strand which gives us more volume.
But our Nebraska mill has a pretty good diversified grade mix as it stands and they have been doing extremely well in the market.
They've qualified in most of our customers that use SBQ products.
And Memphis will also be adding a fourth strand and we're adding advanced testing equipment which will allow us to get into the even higher-valued more critical applications of SBQ.
I'd like to add to that that you have to distinguish between additional capacity that is being generated from existing facilities versus building new facilities and we're not talking about building completely new steelmaking facilities.
Our capital cost per ton of increased production here is going to be somewhere underneath $290 a ton versus what it would cost to build a $1-million facility that would be north of $600 a ton for this type of product that we're producing.
So this is really becoming more efficient at our existing operations taking full advantage of the equipment that we have in place and putting mass [ph] equipment in to allow not only for more production capability in these types of products but also expanded market products and different products than we're producing today.
And it's important that you understand that we define a market and how people define markets may be different from one another because we define the market for this type of product that includes not only special bar quality rounds but also forging stock and also stock for pipe finishing operations seamless pipe finishing operations as well.
John do you want to add anything more to that? Yes I would add maybe 2 points.
One is that sticking with our focus on having diversity the products that we will be adding the 1 million tons that we will be adding are spread out across many markets many industries and many customers.
So it will not be concentrated in any 1 market industry or any 1 customer base creating an over-capacity situation.
The other thing I'd like to point out Dan is that as the second-largest SBQ supplier in the United States we have firmly established ourselves with our customer base.
We've qualified on most of the critical applications and we're in a good position to follow up on that with additional tons into those same customers and those same markets that we've already qualified on at our mills.
We'll take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Can you just help us with everything you've got going on what should we be modeling for pre-operating startup costs for 2012? This is Jim Frias.
This year there were about $21 million in the fourth quarter $20.8 million is what's in the earnings release.
In the first quarter we think they're going to be a similar level and eventually they're going to ramp up because of the new DRI facility but it's too early for us to tell what those are going to be.
So we'll give you quarter-by-quarter what we're looking at okay? Okay.
And secondly just with all the new investment.
You've got the wide coated sheet light gauge sheet you've got DRI coming up you've got SBQ you've got the degasser going in.
Automotive and appliance just seems like such a natural market for all of this.
Can you talk about what your percentage of your business would be in that end market today and what it might be come 2014? Well right now we're at about 10% of our sheet product goes into automotive.
Another couple of percent going into appliances.
In our SBQ market about 5% to 10% also of our SBQ products go into those 2 markets currently.
Frankly with the additions that we're making in our SBQ portfolio and what we're adding to our sheet portfolio we expect that to grow.
We're also doing about 10% to 15% in the energy sector with respect to our SBQ-quality product.
It seems like a lot of this is coming up over the 2013 period.
So I'm just trying to get sense of how important those markets might be to you in 2014 or around that point.
Well they'll obviously be very important because the direction that we're heading here with this additional capacity and our continual movement up the value chain whether it be in sheets or bar or plate the heavy equipment sectors the energy sectors the automotive the appliance sector but in particularly the automotive will be very important and we'll be able to continue to participate at greater levels and greater percentages with our current growth strategy and with capital that we're going to be spending over the next couple of years in each of those markets as those markets continue to improve as the economy recovers.
Dan I might just add to that that just so we're clear.
This isn't something new that we're moving into.
We've been in the automotive market for several years now probably going on almost 10 years.
And our presence in that market both from a product diversity value-added and customer base has been growing every year.
So we're ready for this next step.
We're excited about this next step.
Going to the 74-inch substrate at Berkeley is a big advantage for us moving forward.
The other thing I'd point out Dan is what this does for us as a company is provide even more diversification allowing us to take more products across more customers and more industries.
So we're continuing to diversify.
Last question if I could.
Just with the RG this past quarter how much tonnage do you think you picked up from that? How much do you think you can retain going forward? We're not going to comment on that.
Rest assured we're going after whatever market is available to us from our customers.
But as far as talking about how many tons we're taking from 1 customer or another or from 1 producer to another number 1 we don't really know that; number 2 it's inappropriate.
The next question comes from Shneur Gershuni with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a question here.
I was wondering if you can comment a little bit.
You had mentioned in your press release about I guess a green shoot in the construction recovery of sorts.
I was kind of wondering if you can give us some color on segments res versus non-res and geography and sort of how you expect this to shape out as the year unfolds.
I really don't have a good answer for you on that.
John do you have anything? I guess the only thing I would point out is what we said was we see some signs some small signs of improvement.
Okay? So we're not seeing a boom in construction by any stretch of the imagination.
We're seeing small indications that it might be getting better across the board nonresidential construction some of the infrastructure work that we are involved with we a small pickup in that.
So we see a small incremental improvement and that's just we're pointing out it's a good sign it's a good start good first step.
The ABI for 2 months in a row was over 50%.
That's the first time that's happened in several years.
So these are all small indicators that things might be just getting just a little bit better as we move forward into 2012.
The other thing there's a huge pent-up demand for a lot of infrastructure work energy work that needs to be done that's going to take public private partnerships to make these things happen.
I was encouraged by what I heard in the State of the Union; of course words are just that.
Strong actions are necessary and we look forward to those strong actions actually helping the nonresidential energy construction markets in 2012.
But it's too early to tell where that'll come from and how strong it'll be.
But there's no doubt that we're past the time when we have to make these kind of investments and find the money to do it.
Research Division</strong> And sort of based on that given the fact that it looks like imports are starting to creep up a little bit and RG I guess restarted and so forth.
Do you think that there's going to be enough demand in the system to overcome that or is it really going to come down to the President delivering on some of the promises during the State of the Union? Well the RG doesn't really impact the nonresidential construction that we're talking about and the issues that we're talking about with respect to what the President had to say in that regard and in the energy sector.
And imports are always an issue always a concern something that we constantly monitor on a daily basis.
Not just a monthly basis.
And we have strategies in place to deal with imports whether they be proactively in Washington constantly monitoring the flows the pricing.
And we hear about it all nothing gets hidden from us and we will take appropriate action as necessary both in the marketplace and through our legal channels in Washington in a proactive manner.
But imports are always an issue.
And for the year 2011 imports were up fairly strongly particularly considering the overall capacity utilization rate in our domestic industry.
I think they were over 20% of the market way too strong considering where the domestic industry is.
And they've ebbed a little bit over the last few months but we know that the tide comes and goes and so we would not be surprised to see it strengthen as we go through the year and also weaken depending upon what ramifications there are and what remedies we take to deal with them in the marketplace or elsewhere.
Research Division</strong> Great.
One final question if I may.
Your SG&amp;A was better than what we were looking for this quarter.
Is this a sustainable level that we should be thinking on a go-forward basis? Our SG&amp;A changes based upon profitability.
Jim you got anything you want to add to that? Yes that was the biggest single factor.
There wasn't anything too unusual to call out in SG&amp;A in the quarter for us.
Our bonuses and profit-sharing and what have you all add to that as we become more profitable going forward.
We'll take our next question from Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about your strategic focus.
Certainly in 2012 you talk about your balance sheet that you have quite a bit of restricted cash a big CapEx budget.
Are you more -- is it fair to say you're more focused on internal growth than acquisitive growth? Is there a lot more room for you to do things beyond what you've told us? If you could just detail that a little more.
Well I would have to definitely characterize our current growth mode as being internal optimizing broadening our product reach broadening our quality reach moving into raw materials more strongly energy.
All those things are true.
We are constantly in tune with the M&amp;A opportunities that may or may not exist from time to time.
Those are things we always evaluate so I wouldn't say we're any less interested in M&amp;A activity.
I just would say that there's not a lot of that taking place at present.
And even where people tried to get some things going they didn't pan out too well.
And so our major focus in our capital expenditures are going to be as we've already discussed.
It will be substantial.
They will increase as we continue to go forward through 2013 into '14.
We have a lot of projects that we're evaluating and a lot of projects in the works.
And we will discuss them as they get to the point of becoming reality.
And most of those continue to be based upon strengthening our existing footprint maybe some international growth in certain areas of the world particularly in the Western Hemisphere Central and South America as well as in North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And if I could one more question just on the construction markets since you're so involved in there.
Your Downstream businesses especially might be ahead of the cycle.
Structural shipments were up pretty sharply more than we would have seasonally expected.
Can you give us a little bit more color about what might be happening downstream and in structurals? And is there a possibility I know you're expecting small growth for construction but is there a possibility that you think that that could surprise us better than we expected? We did see our structural shipments go up.
We do expect that to continue going into the first half of the year.
It's again as we mentioned earlier maybe a little bit of construction improvement infrastructure improvement.
We don't see a big jump in that.
Research Division</strong> Okay anything downstream worth pointing out? The biggest positives on the downstream are the year-over-year improvements that we've seen in virtually all of our downstream businesses in terms of profitability.
And where there were some strong negatives those strong negatives have shrunk dramatically.
And we believe we'll continue to see that level stay where it is today with some slight improvements.
But again we've been very cautious in saying we expect small improvements.
If some other things fall into place that could be significant improvements.
There are more manufacturing coming back to the country.
It's not a flood by any means but it's happening.
We're building things here.
Other companies are building here because of the special natural gas game-changing events that are taking place.
Chemical companies are building plants that they weren't building for the last 20 years and they're expanding others.
So there are some good things taking place in the construction arena.
And certainly we will be providing a lot of steel to our own growth plans in Louisiana and elsewhere.
But there's no robust change in construction; we're still bouncing along the bottom with a slight upward tilt to it.
Hopefully we'll see that improve during the course of the year.
We believe it will but it's yet to be determined.
We'll take our next question from Richard Garchitorena with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So my first question.
It looks like in Q4 we saw a drop in conversion cost versus the third quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the components which helped to drive that and how should we look at that going into Q1 into the rest of 2012? Well we did have an improvement in our conversion cost and that's an effort of us focusing as we always do on lowering our costs.
That's how we are focused on being the low-cost producer.
We continue to focus in that area.
We continue to make improvements in that area.
I would also add to that that some of the incremental organic projects that we've done over the few years over the last couple of years have helped us become more efficient in our operations and that's had a positive impact on our conversion costs also.
Research Division</strong> John could mix also be a factor since we did more bars and beams and sheet and plate were down a little bit.
Could that be a factor? That could be a factor.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my second question you mentioned on the call earlier that Steel Mill capacity was about 74%.
Can you give us a breakdown of how that is split between the long and sheet mills? And then also given the strength of the market if that'll change at all going into 2012? Well we don't get into breaking out each individual product line's capacity utilization rates for competitive reasons.
Overall that's where we're at.
And during the course just looking at the last 12 months there have been certain product groups all of them have moved up and down.
Sometimes in sync sometimes out of sync.
And we've seen as we've mentioned and you can take this as an intuitive comparison we've told you that we've seen stronger markets in many of our products and those will be operating at the higher rates than otherwise.
But as far as next year goes as far as 2012 goes we expect to see improvement in our utilization rates but it's way too early to tell where actually it'll move to.
I think over the last year we've changed it by what John? 3% or 4%? Year-over-year? It's about 5%.
About 5%.
We may see something similar to that over the next 12 months we may not.
GDP is only -- is getting revised downward both here and around the world.
Pretty much folks are looking at a 2% growth rate in GDP here and that doesn't bode well for big changes.
But we didn't have much better growth rate last year and we still were able to improve our utilization rates in certain markets improved by 5% on average.
So we expect to see something similar next year.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I got a question for you on natural gas.
On average just roughly speaking how many millions of BTUs do you use a year? In our existing operations? Is that the question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
About 30 billion to 35 billion in our existing operations.
In the steel mills.
In our steel mills.
DRI facility we project will be using another 26 billion.
25 billion 26 billion.
Research Division</strong> Right and how much of that is hedged? Well right now in terms of financial hedges we worked through the last of our hedges recently.
And so all we have is the new working interest drilling program that's ramping up and it will as it cycles up cover our usage for DRI 100%.
And we do have the long-term contract in our Trinidad facility a 20-year contract with an average cost of about -- it was about $2 an MMBtu.
Research Division</strong> I was just trying to get to how much of a benefit you'll get on your cost structure this year with lower natural gas.
Well certainly we will see a benefit with the way that spot prices have going and market prices have gone.
I don't think we sat down and figured out what that's going to be at.
But it probably will be significant.
That's totally unrelated to the drilling program that we have with our partners.
Research Division</strong> And then just a last question on the DRI side where are you planning to get the DRI for the new facility -- I'm sorry the iron ore for the DRI in the new facility? Same places we mentioned in some previous calls Michael.
The same people who are supplying us the pellets for our existing operations in Trinidad will pretty much be supplying us for our new operation in New Orleans or Louisiana.
John? I just wanted to make one more point as you were asking about the impact of the lower natural gas.
We talked about the direct used gas as being about 35 billion.
Don't forget we are large consumer of electricity and some of that electricity is produced in coal -- excuse me gas-fired generation.
So we expect to see a positive impact from that also.
Research Division</strong> So is some of your electric tied to the price of natural gas? Yes definitely.
Some regions of the country more than others and we're not in a position to give you a breakdown on that.
But I think on average in this country natural gas is about 20% of power generation across the country.
That is going to be growing as we speak and coal percentages will be coming down but that's about where it is today.
So you could probably figure on average 20% of our electricity is coming from natural gas-fired facilities and the fuel charges and what have you will give us will benefit us to that level.
I think there was an article Michael the other day that came out and said that the benefit of natural gas in general right now with pricing moves that have taken place to the low side are actually reducing power rates by 50%.
Quite significant.
And so that trend is probably going to continue at least for the interim.
But keep in mind that the market is going to make adjustments.
Natural gas is in a situation today where technology has created a readily easy abundance.
That will drive the market to use more of it.
And when we look at something like 1 or 2 or 3 DRI plants we're looking at 20 30-plus years where we want to maintain a stable supply.
That's why we have entered into these drilling programs in partnership.
And there's no doubt about it that you have oil where you've got it at today and projected to be at in the future that the market's going to take advantage of low-priced natural gas and the price of natural gas is going to go up.
Research Division</strong> When you get to your target for DRI or scrap-based equivalents 6 million or 7 million tons I think you said will you have to purchase any pig iron outside? We won't have to.
It'll be a matter of opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Would you possibly locate DRI facilities up in the Midwest like closer to Crawfordsville? Right now I'd say our plans our immediate and medium-term plans are to do this in Louisiana.
The site there is significant it enables the movement in of raw materials and the movement out of product along the river system quite easily for us.
Most of the plants consuming it are going to be on the River.
Crawfordsville benefits remain in that heartland scrap breadbasket where there's a lot of prime scrap.
And I don't think they use much pig iron at all.
At any time over the years we've been using pig iron because of the availability in pricing on the low residual scrap in that market.
But the other places on the river system where we have facilities it's a tremendous benefit for us.
We'll take our next question from Aldo Mazzaferro from Macquarie.
I just had a question on the DRI facility up in Louisiana.
I was tracking trying to get the gas consumption.
It seems that you just gave that.
When you use the pellets do they -- what do they come in at about 62%? Or is it a higher iron content when the pellets come in? Is it higher? Close to 68%-plus.
And so what kind of ratio then would you be using like about 1.3% of pellets to output? Pellets coming into DRI coming out would be what about...
4 to 1.
Excuse me.
1.4 1.4 to 1 right.
Yes.
And how many people do think you're going to employ down there? Per unit 250 is that right? 150.
Yes.
Obviously there'll be many more during the construction phase.
When the place up and running how many do we have in Trinidad today? We have about 100 in Trinidad.
This will be a bigger facility and so 150 per unit that we build.
The first one will be cryo flood [ph] facility so as we build the second one it'll require less people to operate the second one than the one in Trinidad.
I get you.
And then so you have people you have gas expense you have depreciation.
And any other big input costs down there? Think you've covered it.
Okay.
And the only other question I had Dan was on the wide and light project at Berkeley.
I think I heard you say you're going to add an additional rolling stand.
What's the capital cost in that project? And do you have to widen the cast during the rolling of those also or are they already wide enough to handle that width? John? Yes.
Well we've had to do some modification on our existing stands okay? Obviously we've added a stand to get the lighter gauge and higher strength material.
And in terms of capital it'd be about -- it's north of $100 million.
That's great.
And then the final thing I had rate of return on the SBQ investment.
You probably can't tell us exactly but can you tell me if SBQ today earns you more or less than $100 a ton? Yes.
No I mean at roughly $100 a ton.
I think it definitely meets your standards.
It truly is an estimate I've put it on the product.
We'll take our next question from Mark Parr with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Couple things.
You've mentioned energy a couple of times Dan and was wondering if the OCTG market tubular operations is that something that's important enough to you that it would make it difficult to actually own your own OCTG facility? Well OCTG covers a wide breadth of products.
We supply a lot of product to the pipe and tube industry including oil country grouping.
And some products we would be able to get into without creating any issues.
Some products would be a little bit more difficult.
Every time I ask my teams about it they're cautious but they also believe that done the right way we could get into it if we decided we wanted to.
So that opportunity is there for us but it's not one of our as you can tell one of our pressing investment strategies at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
I appreciate that.
Do you have a view on imports for 2012 versus '11? I mean do you think imports will be...
A view? I'll give you my view.
They should be down 20% maybe 30%.
Now that's my view my opinion.
Exactly what's going to happen there'll be continual import activity the way there has been.
Imports aren't going to go away.
They just need to be traded properly fairly and not illegally.
And we'll deal with it.
Dan you mentioned earlier we'll deal with it commercially and legally as we have to.
I would point out a couple of things relative to imports.
With the extended lead times that are required with the imports that presents a bit of a challenge.
Potential for quality issues presents a bit of a challenge.
And the other thing is the tight inventory levels that we have currently in the service center industry makes it a little bit more challenging for them to go out on a limb and make those large buys that are going to be delivered 3 or 4 months from today when we're not sure what the market will be.
Research Division</strong> Well you've seen the imports as a percent of the overall market come in in the last 3 years.
So clearly as the markets become tighter and also you've got capacity to give for the domestic market import's got to be an awfully compelling opportunity to take that risk.
I agree with you.
But it's good.
Another thing I don't think you mentioned export opportunities or anything new along those lines Dan or John that in terms of kind of where you were for the full year as far as export mix and whether or not that's going to change in 2012? We continue to grow our international footprint our commercial footprint.
We are right now at about maybe 1% or 2% higher than we were in 2010 but not a large increase.
We have established our first steel depot in Colombia and we expect great things out of that facility.
That's going to put some product on the ground in a country where our commercial activities have been growing and the economy is strong.
So we see good things there.
We continue to focus on Central and South America and we anticipate continuing to grow that our exports.
We said last year that we'd like to see a goal of 15% of our total products being exported and we haven't changed that goal.
We'll take our next question from Michelle Applebaum with Steel Market Intelligence.
A couple things.
On the 72-inch on that expansion how much more of the market can you reach now with that product? Remember that the expansion that we're doing at Berkeley involves not just width but also going lighter and it also involves shipping product to some of our other mills like the Decatur mill where we'll be able to galvanize 72-inch wide.
And so with all that you have to take into account when you're talking about how much more of the market does this open up for you it's both a width and thickness benefit.
John you got any...
I guess it's hard to pinpoint an exact number as what percentage it opens up to us.
Dan mentioned the galvanized product with the utilization of our other facilities.
I do want to also point out it's more than we keep talking about the width right But when you go that narrow when you go that light and with the extra strand getting the extra strength that it puts into the steel also opens up other opportunities for us.
So it's not just in the automotive as a result of the width but it's also the physical characteristics of the steel itself that will open opportunities for us.
We're not talking about 50 or 60 tons.
We're talking of hundreds of thousands of tons of additional market opening up to us.
Right and high-value a high profit and...
Absolutely.
I'm trying to figure out there's a fee change here in terms of mix where Nucor's sweet spot has always been to go to the center of the market.
So you've left on the you want to call the more specialty grades.
And in the last couple of years -- it's really been over the decade but accelerated the last few years whether it's SBQ whether it's this product.
I'm trying to get a handle on how much further downstream you've gone.
There's no way to generalize is there? Well listen Nucor has been doing this since we bought the first to Steel Mill.
We did it when I was out in Plymouth Utah.
We did it when I was at Nucor-Yamato and we're doing it today.
And the biggest area that we've been doing it in is the newest product group that we've gotten it to over our history and that's flat-rolled and plate.
And we've moved into the high end of the SBQ business as well.
And it's been a continual thing.
It's been part of our strategy and the key to it for us is that you do that without vacating any of the other spaces that you've occupied.
That was a mistake a lot of steel companies made 20 30 years ago where they basically let the mini mills in at the low end and held onto the high end.
Our strategy is one based upon learning from that painful lesson.
And so we are growing our footprint not shifting it.
That's an important distinction and we're going to continue to grow it.
And it won't be long before there's not a grade of steel in any of those product lines that we're not capable of making on a consistent basis.
Exactly.
Forgive me for being greedy because you're announcing all these different growth kinds of things in the last couple days.
But can we get an update on the new maybe potential plate mill? Plate mill is something that we're continuing to investigate.
We've taken a look at sites and it's an opportunity that as the market continued to develop we will switch our emphasis from one of exploring to one of actually implementing but we're not at that implementation stage yet.
Our next question comes from Sam Dubinsky with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
Given that construction markets are showing some signs of life do you expect the Steel Products division to breakeven or even be positive in 2012? Then I have a follow-up.
Well the magnitude of the improvement from 2010 to 2011 was significant.
We don't expect to see the same significant level of improvement but we do expect to see continued improvement particularly in the middle to the latter part of 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of pricing through 2Q I know there's not a lot of visibility in the market but it seems like some of the price hikes at least for Long Products had been due to rising scrap costs.
With scrap potentially trading lower do you think pricing can stay at today's levels? Well always keep in mind that while raw materials maybe the initiator of pricing moves it's the market that determines whether or not you can hold onto those pricing moves that you worked to get because your raw materials are going up.
And it's something that if the market is strong enough it'll allow us to recoup those costs.
In the recent time period it has.
And we hope that that trend continues going through next year.
There's obviously a whole host of issues that can impact that and weve talked about some of them today and you guys have brought some of them up.
But you always have to keep in mind just because scrap costs go up or ore costs go up or coal costs go up doesn't mean that you automatically get it back in price increases.
The market has to be conducive to it.
The demand in the marketplace has to be strong enough to accept it.
And so that is not a direct result every time.
And you've seen us have to move up and down based on what the market says we can get for pricing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last one just for modeling purposes how should we think about minority interest and equity income going forward? How should you think about it in terms of absolute terms or general terms? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes on a dollar basis just because it's been a little volatile.
Yes we won't say an absolute about but keep in mind we took a $7 million charge in the third quarter that maybe expensed higher and then we got a $7 million benefit in the fourth quarter.
So I would back those out and then make your judgments from there.
Our last question comes from Dave Martin with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple follow-ups.
Hopefully it'll be quick.
Starting with the DRI project.
You mentioned the drilling program.
What's the CapEx and the budget related to the drilling program? And also I'm curious if there's any triggers in the agreement in which if natural gas falls below some price the drilling stops? Well we do have triggers in the program so that as natural gas falls below a certain level we can and most likely will stop drilling.
As far as the CapEx goes we're not going to go down that path.
Not in total but in 2012 we think it's going to be the in the neighborhood of $100 million out of that $1 billion that we called out for our total spending this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just keeping in the energy theme Dan you mentioned earlier that for SBQ energy represented I believe as much as 15% of sales.
I'd just be curious if you could ballpark what your energy exposure was for your other main products? Well as we mentioned earlier on the SBQ it could be as much as even 20% on the SBQ.
Rick [ph] and the guys are now comparing notes on the other product lines -- the horses are coming in lined up.
I think we're ready to give an answer.
We don't have much on structural.
But the plate probably around 10% also.
And on sheet the same ballpark about 10% maybe 10% to 15%.
But those are all growing opportunities.
Those numbers will move forward as the energy activity continues to develop in this country which it is going to for decades to come.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I had a follow-up for Jim.
On the correction of the accrual of $29 million was that in SG&amp;A and therefore the explanation why SG&amp;A fell so much quarter-over-quarter? No it was not.
It was in cost of goods sold.
One other thing about the quarter-over-quarter move that somebody brought up in the background we were talking is in the third quarter we did take a charge of about $14 million that we disclosed in the 10-Q regarding a dust recycling facility.
So third quarter did have a $14 million higher charge than what we had in the fourth quarter.
If there are no more questions I'd just like to say thank you for your participation and your interest in Nucor.
And once again thank our shareholders and our teammates and our customers and suppliers for helping make Nucor a success a continuing success.
Our best years are truly yet to come.
Thank you all.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation First Quarter of 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan DiMicco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Carolyn.
Good afternoon.
This is Dan DiMicco Nucor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call today.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: our President and Chief Operating Officer John Ferriola; our Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Keith Grass Ladd Hall Ham Lott and Joe Stratman.
First and most importantly as always I want to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin and NuMit Steel Technology teams for your excellent work in an economic environment that remains very challenging.
The company's greatest competitive advantage is your strong commitment to working hard working smart and working together and most importantly working safely.
The Nucor team is succeeding by taking care of our customers all of our customers and I want to thank you all for that.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to discuss our first quarter results and financial position.
He will be followed by John Ferriola who will report on Nucor's operations and our growth initiatives.
I will conclude our presentation with some general commentary on our economy and Nucor's strategy.
Jim? Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
First quarter of 2012 earnings of $0.46 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of $0.30 to $0.35 per diluted share.
That outperformance primarily resulted from stronger than expected shipments from our steel mills to outside customers during the month of March.
Our results also benefited from approximately $0.04 per diluted share of state income tax adjustments.
The first quarter 2012 effective tax rate measured as a percentage of earnings before income taxes and noncontrolling interests was 27.4%.
After adjusting our profits belonging to our noncontrolling interest business partners the effective tax rate was 29.8%.
Our minority interest partners are responsible for the income tax liability and their share of joint venture profits.
First quarter 2012 earnings increased modestly from fourth quarter 2011 earnings of $0.43 per diluted share which included about $0.08 of nonrecurring gains.
Compared to the fourth quarter profit improvement was strongest at our sheet mills.
Our plate and beam mills achieved strong profitability that was comparable to their fourth quarter performance.
With margin pressure from increased rebar imports profitability in our bar mills declined.
Earnings for our raw material business improved somewhat in the fourth quarter but decreased significantly from the first quarter of last year as a result of seasonally atypical softness in scrap prices.
Our construction products businesses experienced a normal seasonal slowdown but backlogs both pricing and volume have increased from last year's first quarter levels.
As we often say our team uses economic downturns as opportunities to grow stronger.
Emerging from downturns stronger than we entered them is how we build long-term value for our shareholders.
We grow stronger because our financial strength allows us to invest in attractive financial opportunities that expand our earnings capacity through the economic cycle.
Nucor has earned the highest credit rating awarded to any metals and mining company in North America an A2 rating from Moody's and an A rating from Standard &amp; Poor's.
We're the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the very important competitive advantage of an investment grade rating.
Globally our credit rating is matched by only one other steel producer Nippon Steel.
To that point Standard &amp; Poor's in its April 13 report entitled North American's Metal and Mining Companies Strongest Weakness  again ranked Nucor #1 for credit rating and credit outlook among a universe of 70 companies.
Nucor was also the only metals and mining company in the group that S&amp;P awarded a strong business risk profile due to our competitive position and profit performance relative to our peers.
Cash short-term investments and restricted cash totaled $3 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2012.
Restricted cash of $586 million is available to fund a significant portion of the DRI plant we are building in Louisiana.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and does not mature until December 2016.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
At the end of the first quarter long-term debt totaled $4.3 billion.
We expect our leverage to decline as a result of long-term debt maturities of $650 million in the fourth quarter this year and an additional $250 million in 2013.
Our plan is to fund those maturities by drawing from a healthy liquidity and continued strong operating cash flow.
In 2012 we are continuing to invest in projects that will grow our long-term earnings power and provide attractive returns to our shareholders.
We project 2012 capital spending of approximately $1 billion or more than double 2011 capital spending of $441 million.
2012 capital spending in our Louisiana DRI raw materials project is expected to increase to approximately $450 million in 2012.
That's from about $50 million in 2011.
It is worth noting that a large number of additional projects are also being implemented throughout our upstream steelmaking and downstream businesses to develop new products increase quality and reduce costs.
John Ferriola will review some highlights for you in his report.
In addition to allowing us to invest in attractive growth opportunities Nucor's strong financial position and cash flow generation has enabled our company to reward our shareholders with an impressive record of cash dividends.
With our first quarter of 2012 payment Nucor has increased its regular base dividend for the 39th consecutive year.
Reflecting Nucor's team's success in growing long-term earnings power the base quarterly dividend has increased approximately tenfold over the past 11 years.
For the second quarter of 2012 we expect earnings to modestly improve from the first quarter level.
Several end-use markets such as automotive heavy equipment energy and general manufacturing have continued to experience improvement in demand benefiting primarily our SBQ sheet and plate products.
We are also seeing small but encouraging signs of improvement in our construction products businesses.
However steel mill pricing and metal margins remained under pressure from the resurgence in imports along with the impact of new and restarted domestic supply in the sheet market.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance around the middle of the final month of the quarter.
We are excited by the opportunities we see ahead to reward our shareholders with very attractive long-term returns.
Our competitive advantages will continue to be the flexibility diversification and sustainability found in Nucor's business model.
Thanks for your interest in Nucor.
Dan? Thank you Jim.
I'll now ask John Ferriola to report on Nucor's operations and the implementation of our growth initiatives.
John? Thanks Dan.
Good afternoon.
Let me begin by thanking all of our raw materials steelmaking and steel product teammates for your outstanding commitment to working safely and to taking care of Nucor's customers.
You are Nucor's most valuable asset and our most powerful competitive advantage the right people living our culture every day.
Working together our team is growing Nucor's long-term earnings power.
Thank you and please keep it going.
Dan and Jim both discussed the ongoing challenging economic and steel market conditions experienced so far in 2012.
We are very proud of the performance of all of our businesses in this adverse environment.
This performance increases our already strong confidence in the Nucor team ability to continue delivering industry-leading through-the-cycle return on capital performance.
Nucor's first quarter 2012's steel mill capacity utilization of 79% highlights the value of our position as North America's most diversified steel producer.
Our sheet and plate mills ran at very healthy utilization rates during the quarter.
Nucor's strong and growing presence in the sheet and plate markets positioned us to benefit from relatively strong demand from our customers in the automotive energy heavy equipment agricultural and railcar sectors.
Contrary to some market observers' claim that Nucor is "just a construction play " our overall mill utilization rate exceeded the industry's first quarter rate of 78%.
And that is more difficult to accomplish when you are the industry's largest producer.
Our SBQ bar business is also capitalizing on strength in the automotive energy agricultural and heavy equipment markets.
It's worth noting that Nucor Steel Nebraskas investment last year in a quality assurance line is receiving a tremendous response from our customers.
It includes an offline bar straightener and performs both surface and ultrasonic inspections.
These new value-added capabilities are already helping Nebraska penetrate more demanding and higher-margin engineer bar applications.
While demand from nonresidential construction markets remains at very depressed levels we continue to believe that the construction market has at a minimum stabilized.
In fact our rebar fabrication and custom-engineered metal buildings businesses are seeing year-over-year increases in orders and in backlogs.
Margins for our Vulcraft's vertical groups joist and deck business improved in the first quarter as pricing increased to levels more reflective of raw materials and other input costs.
As I said at the start of my comments we are very proud of the results our team has achieved in these tough economic times.
Even better we are extremely excited about the impressive work being done by our raw material steelmaking and downstream products teams during these bad times to prepare Nucor for the good times ahead.
Here are updates on some of the projects underway to expand our company's long-term earnings power: Construction of our Louisiana DRI plant is on schedule for a mid-2013 start of production.
As we have begun erecting the structural steel for the furnace the plant now has a skyline.
Annual capacity will be 2.5 million metric tons.
Combined with the recently completed expansion of our Trinidad DRI plant's annual capacity of 2 million tons Louisiana's first DRI margin will bring us to about 2/3 of our goal to control from 6 million to 7 million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes.
Implementation of our raw material strategy will be a game changer in advancing Nucor's growth in the sheet and SBQ markets.
Our David J.
Joseph team completed 3 acquisitions in the first quarter located in Florida Colorado and North Carolina.
These bolt-on acquisitions expand DJJ's regional scrap recycling platforms and increase Nucor's total annual scrap processing capacity by about 5%.
Work began in the first quarter on our Berkeley County South Carolina sheet mill's wide light project.
The addition of a seventh hot mill stand will provide Berkeley with the capability to produce wider and lighter gauge hot-rolled sheet steel.
We will be able to produce hot band pickled and oiled and cold-rolled at a finished length of 72 inches.
Berkeley will also supply our Decatur Alabama sheet mill's state-of-the-art automotive-quality galvanizing line with 72-inch coils.
We are committing $100 million of capital to this project because of the tremendous opportunities it will provide to the entire Nucor Sheet Mill Group to move up the value chain and flat-rolled markets.
We expect to accelerate our growth into agricultural pipe and tube industrial equipment heavy truck and automotive high strength and ultra high strength applications.
Our Berkeley team is on track to complete construction and start production by the end of 2013.
Building on the outstanding success of their new heat treated line our Hertford County North Carolina plate mill team expects to complete construction and start commissioning a vacuum tank degasser in this year's third quarter.
That will be followed by the addition of a normalizing line in 2013.
These projects further advance our strategy of expanding our value-added product mix in the plate market.
Our Hickman Arkansas sheet mill team is also installing a vacuum tank degasser to grow their value-added product offerings.
As the westernmost flat-rolled mill in the United States with a vacuum degasser Hickman will be strategically positioned to serve the vibrant markets in the Southwest United States and in Mexico.
The degasser is expected to be operating by the end of this year.
Work is underway to increase our SBQ and wire rod annual capacity at our mills in Nebraska South Carolina and Tennessee by a combined 1 million tons.
The total capital cost is expected to be $290 million and completion is scheduled by the end of 2013.
Our expanded SBQ product will position us for continued growth in automotive energy general manufacturing applications.
Vertical integration downstream into value added products will continue to be a major contributor to Nucor's profitable growth.
Our joist and deck rebar fabrication and custom-engineered metal-building businesses are building their long-term earnings power by drawing both a geographical footprint and their product offerings.
Our 50% owned Steel Technologies' flat-rolled steel processing joint venture announced plans earlier this month to construct a facility in Celaya Mexico.
Celaya is expected to be fully operational by the end of this year.
Steel Technologies' new facility in Monterrey is also expected to be completed by year's end.
With the addition of these 2 facilities Steel Technologies will have a total of 5 processing facilities in Mexico.
We believe these exciting projects and with strong prospects for more to come make it clear that our team's unrelenting focus remains on long-term sustainable growth in Nucor's profitability.
Thank you for your interest in our company.
Dan? Thank you John.
The 21 000 men and women of Nucor have again delivered a solid and profitable performance and what Stanford economist Edward Lazear recently described as the worst economic recovery in history.
In his opinion piece published in The Wall Street Journal on April 3 Professor Lazear laid out the ugly facts of the current recovery.
Since this recovery began in the second half of 2009 the United States economy has grown at an annual rate of just 2.4%.
That mini growth rate is well below the rates experienced in past recoveries and even lags the average annual growth rate of 3.4% delivered by the U.S.
economy over the 60-year postwar period from 1947 to 2007.
Dr.
Lazear also give -- points to reasons for this dismal performance.
I will quote his words.
"The government policies have focused on short-run changes and gimmicks -- recall Cash for Clunkers and first-time home buyer credits -- rather than creating conditions that are favorable to investment that raise productivity wages and create jobs." In his essay he also highlights other damaging actions that include the threat of higher taxes constantly increasing regulatory burdens and ineffective trade practices and policies.
Nucor and the U.S.
steel industry face these severe economic headwinds every day.
The 2 industry data points tell the story: The first is the U.S.
steel industry's capacity utilization rate of less than 78% in this year's first quarter are well below rates approaching 90% prior to the onset of the financial crisis in the fall of 2008.
The second data point which is heavily influencing industry capacity utilization relates to surging import levels.
Through the first 2 months of this year imports of finished steel have increased 36% over the year-ago period.
Major products with significant increases include rebar plate and tubular goods for the energy market.
There is no doubt that the legality of these imports will be strongly challenged in the months to come.
Let's be completely honest with ourselves.
The U.S.
economy has not had a sustainable and healthy recovery from the great recession that began almost 4 years ago.
And it's not going to get on the right path until our country moves back to creating innovating making and building things as the major driver of our economic -- and economy's growth.
The time is right and long overdue to reinvigorate the American economy by seizing new opportunities in energy infrastructure rebuilding and growing a globally competitive U.S.
manufacturing sector that is primed and ready to prosper in an environment of rules-based free trade.
On the energy and competitiveness front I have one further comment.
Make no mistake natural gas recovery technology and the enormous reserves created by it are a game changer of historic proportions that if used properly and wisely will drive a renaissance in U.S.
manufacturing and fuel economic growth and job creation for decades to come.
Our challenge as Americans right now is to get our government and business leadership to go together arm in arm into the world of global economic competition.
Reflecting on the history of our country's successes winning World War II and the space race there is little our nation can't accomplish when we go forward together as Americans and leave our political differences behind us.
This is the responsibility of leadership.
And the failure to achieve this unity is a failure of leadership.
The Nucor team will continue to do our part to shine a bright light on this exciting path forward to sustainable and vigorous growth for the American economy and U.S.-based manufacturing.
And our team is bullish on the American people and their ability to do the right things.
That is why we are busy building a stronger Nucor.
A stronger Nucor is one positioned to deliver higher highs and higher lows in earnings power through successive economic cycles.
Over the 2008 to 2012 period Nucor will have invested more than $6 billion of capital by a disciplined execution of our 5-pronged growth strategy: first to optimize and continually improve our existing operations and our teammates' skill sets; second execute and grow our raw material strategy; third expand through greenfield growth taking advantage of new technology and unique marketplace niches where major cost advantage can be attained; fourth seek international growth via joint ventures; and fifth grow through strategic acquisitions.
And it's Nucor's superior competitive position with our financial strength product diversification operational flexibility and unique culture that allows us to continue growing our earnings power during times of economic distress.
I want to again thank everyone in our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin and NuMit Steel Technology teams for a job well done in the first quarter.
You are the reason that we can say with the greatest confidence that Nucor's best is yet to come.
We would like to take your questions at this time.
Please feel free to join the question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You've outlined some compelling economics for the DRI plant.
I just wanted to get an update on how you're thinking about further capacity expansions there.
If that works as you're expecting is that something where you could consider building it out to be an exporter or to be even more self-sufficient? Well certainly yes the self-sufficient part is part of our strategy.
As we have talked before on numerous occasions we currently are permitted for two 2.5 million metric ton DRI plants.
And the initial part of our strategy will be to build the first one and then to build the second.
Exactly when we start building the second it has not been determined.
It could be as early as while we're still starting up the first one.
We also have the opportunity to build 2 more units there for a total of 4 which will give us somewhere in the vicinity of 12 million metric tons of DRI capability and capacity which could be used entirely in Nucor.
If the market said we should export some of it we would do so.
John do you have any comments you want to add to that? The only thing I would add Dan is that we are building the first DRI facility with the capability all of the infrastructure in place for our second DRI unit of 2.5 million metric tons.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is there any reason why not moving forward sooner if you already are familiar with the DRI technology in Trinidad? I mean is this a new competency for Nucor that you could plan to develop more aggressively going ahead? Well caution is just a matter of the times we're in.
The need to move at a faster pace than what we're planning on is not necessarily there.
And we -- as John said we're building the infrastructure for the second one.
So to construct the second one will be a considerably shorter time frame.
Let's get one done and ready to operate and then we will go from there.
As far as new business strategy goes our intent here is to utilize the DRI to replace the 3-plus million tons of pig iron and other high-quality scrap substitutes on an economic competitive basis going forward and be in control more of our own supply.
And with the natural gas opportunities that will be with us for the next 20 to 40 years we think this is a wise way to go.
Next we'll go to Kuni Chen with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping you could give us a little bit more color around your expectations for modest improvements in the second quarter maybe talk about how the pace of order entry has progressed through the first quarter and what you're seeing so far in April.
Could you give us some view on lead times and whether that's changed at all across your business lines? John? Why dont we start with order entry rates.
The year started fairly strong on order entry.
We saw a dip around the middle of the first quarter.
After the dip a short period of 2 or 3 weeks we began to see both volume and pricing recovery.
So it's been a slow but steady recovery from the middle of the first quarter to where we are today both on volume and on pricing.
Going forward given the current match between capacity and demand we would see both volume and pricing to stabilize in the near future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up on the steel product segment we're getting closer to breakeven in that area.
When do you expect to see that cross back into the black? Well we are definitely closer.
At some of our divisions we are actually in the black but it is a slow process.
And until we start to see a significantly stronger trend in construction it will be -- we won't see a significant flip over to the black until that happens.
And right now we're looking at a slow progress continuing for the entire year of 2012.
John do you have anything you want to add to that? No I would say that we do believe that the construction market is stabilizing and we see some signs of improvement.
The API has been above 50% now for 5 months in a row.
That's a very positive sign.
Of course there's a lead time element in that.
So theres several months out there before we begin to see that in actual construction starts.
But again as we said in the script we think at least at a minimum the construction market is stabilizing.
And we have seen increases in our backlogs and in the order entry rate in Harris rebar and in our building systems.
So those are somewhat encouraging signs.
One of the early indicators that seem to be sending a positive signal in our pre-engineered metal buildings which will usually improve before our joist business and the overall construction market is the size of the jobs that are actually going forward.
And over the last couple of months we've seen more and more large jobs than we have seen for some time.
But it's still at the beginning stages.
And whether it stays at a trend an upward slope or whether it flattens out or drops back up until this point in time we just seem to be on a sinusoidal curve that just goes up and down up and down about a fairly steady bottom in the construction markets.
So we're not getting overly excited but it is a positive observation and we'll see if it continues.
And our next question will come from Shneur Gershuni with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is related to DJJ.
You made a couple of acquisitions there.
I was wondering if you can walk us through the thought process because the margins have been under pressure a little bit.
Is this a signal of a turn that you're seeing? Or is it more strategic with respect to those 3 unique acquisition? John? Well as I mentioned the 3 acquisitions were what we refer to as bolt-on acquisitions.
And the strategy behind it is to get better control on the feeder lots so that we have a more steady and consistent supply of scrap into our yards for processing.
As far as going forward we will continue to do that when it makes sense when the opportunities present themselves and continue to grow our business in times that we are able to process for feedstock into our mills.
We've been very disciplined.
Keith and his team have been very disciplined about the acquisitions that we have been making.
There has been no rush.
When we get an opportunity to have a very cost-competitive effective acquisition theyve been executing on them and that will continue going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was wondering if we can turn to your prepared comments about the import market.
Spreads have definitely narrowed if not collapsed between Europe and the U.S.
and so forth.
Where do you see it going forward over the next couple of months? Do you think it stabilizes comes down? Is there certain parts of the market where -- flat-rolled versus rebar or something -- that you're more concerned about or less concerned about? I like the way you transitioned very quickly from one term to another when you went to "collapsed." The margins have tightened and then collapsed which is typical of surges in imports when they take place.
And listen we have a U.K.
-- a global economy that is sputtering.
We have a domestic economy that is growing at a snail's pace.
And there's massive oversupply in some products here in the United States and around the world created in this country by both domestic overcapacity based upon the demand levels we're seeing not based upon peak demand and the influx of imports.
In particular we've seen a significant a serious flood of imports from Turkey reinforcing bar and a little bit on merchant.
And we're starting to see it on sheet and we're concerned about that.
And it's not just what happens with respect to the first order move out of one country but it can and this has been the case with China as they export more and more product to other places in the world.
People move the exports that they had to those areas to other areas and for the U.S.
market being the most open.
Clearly this flood of imports is -- it's not being driven by demand.
It's being -- it's a excess supply push on the part of the global steel industry and the trading environment.
And as such it usually leads to distortions in pricing and cost.
And as such as I mentioned in my prepared remarks you can rest assured that we will be moving forward with legal challenges to Washington to this flood of imports that have taken place and deal with them in the only way that we have possible to deal with them when they're not market driven surges in imports and movement of steel.
So it's a serious issue.
It affects all the products eventually.
And it's been more so in the long products rebar business and in the sheet business.
We're starting to see some of that in plate.
Yes the margins are compressing but the problem with that is the damage is being done as these margins continue to compress.
There's no way in heck that in this domestic industry if competing on a level playing field all things being equal that an industry running at 78% or less than capacity needs a 36% increase in imports to satisfy the demand.
And it doesn't come in here unless it is underpriced and many times priced below the cost to produce.
So those issues are with us.
Theyve been with us for decades.
We continue to fight them.
We continue to win.
It's unfortunate that we cannot have something that's more proactive in dealing with these surges on the part of our government but we are even working on that as we speak.
Research Division</strong> One final question if I may.
Can you remind us what your auto exposure is and what the impact would be? If I remember it would be smaller than others if the auto companies were to bring forward some of their maintenance and retooling schedules due to some of the resin issues out there in the marketplace? John? Well let me comment first on what our exposure is.
I like to think of it as our participation not our exposure.
Our participation has grown in automotive probably to the tune of 10% to 15% over the last year.
And we see that as a very good market for us.
We have developed many products.
We've been able to put into that light gauge high strength I mentioned in the prepared remarks ultra high-strength products.
So on the sheet side our participation has grown 10% to 15%.
The automotive build this year is expected to increase by about a million units up from somewhere in the neighborhood of 13 million 13.5 million up to about 14 million 14.5 million units.
And don't forget in addition to the sheet business going into automotive we have a lot of participation from our SBQ group.
And that participation is also growing both as a result of new products that we're introducing and as a result of the volume that we'll have to be able to put into those markets as a result of some of our expansion projects that we've mentioned in the script.
The only thing I would add to that Dan is that I mentioned Steel Technology expanding in Mexico.
The Mexican automotive market production has increased tremendously in the last 4 to 5 years again to the tune over that period of about a million units of build taking it from somewhere in the neighborhood of 3 million units in Mexico 4 or 5 years ago up to about 4 million units today.
So were well positioned both in the Southeast where there's a large growth in automotive production and in Mexico where we're also seeing a large growth in automotive production.
So we see our participation in the automotive as a very positive thing.
What percent of our overall business John is going into automotive if you bring together the bar SBQ the sheet the fasteners you name it what are we looking at? Probably close to about 2 billion tons.
So we added 20 million tons.
As far as the impact of this resin shortage that seems to be certainly being talked about with the outage in Germany it's going to affect every player in the business.
Some companies obviously have greater exposure to automotive than we do.
Ours is growing.
And what that impact is going to be is not something we can speculate on.
It just depends how the oil companies handle it and how much they cut back production if at all.
I think theyre actively working to find other sources of materials to be able to use to replace those not on resins out of Germany.
And next we'll go to Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to chat again about D.J.
Joseph.
We keep hearing from scrap processors and theyre struggling to kind of earn their cost of capital at this point that theres too much trading capacity in the U.S.
and I just kind of wanted to get your views on that.
Do you think it's a longer term problem does capacity need to come out or can we grow into this? Well it's probably -- this is Keith.
It's probably a combination of the 2.
As the economy improves it will generate more scrap and make more unprepared scrap available to various scrap processors around the country.
But there is no doubt that during the shredding business today you have experienced increased competition over the last several years.
There's been a significant jump in the number of shredders in the country.
So as you've seen in past cycles there is a trend towards consolidation as well as we will grow through it with increased scrap generation.
Research Division</strong> Are you actually starting to see any scrap prices and facilities come out at this point? Or is it just consolidation at the moment? I would say more consolidation -- slight consolidation.
I haven't really seen anybody drop out at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> And just one other question.
I was looking at the kind of year-on-year numbers for the first quarter '12 versus the first quarter '11 you have metal margins up about $14 a ton energy down about $2 a ton.
Are there any other kind of nonmetal and non-energy costs significant costs that I should be aware of? This is Jim Frias not that I can think of.
You'll need the API too above $100.
And next we'll go to Aaron Viswanisen [ph] with Longbow Research.
I just wanted to see if you guys could maybe give us a number and help us understand like how much of your sheet products are -- what you'd characterize as value add.
And through these projects that you have where are you going to get to and how many other projects would you consider to take that number higher? Well earlier John mentioned that we're putting a total of about 2 million tons into the automotive-type market.
But frankly talk about value add it covers many more products and many more uses across agriculture and energy and what have you.
So John what's your thoughts on that? One way you can look at it is that on the sheet side the split between our hot-rolled product and our cold-rolled and galvanized product and our percentage that goes into the highest strength in ultra high strength markets.
And on the SBQ side I would say that all of our SBQ products are value added products.
So that's fairly easy to address.
Currently our split is about 55% hot band to 45% cold-rolled and further process galvanized product.
In terms of our high strength and ultra high strength we continuously move in more and more of our tonnage into those areas and going into areas we mentioned automotive but also appliance agricultural are big areas for our value added products going into those markets.
So we continue to see it grow.
And on the sheet side if I were to take a round number on all of our value added cold-rolled galvanized and ultra high strength I would say somewhere in the neighborhood of 55% to 60%.
And our current SBQ capacity which is all value added would be roughly 1.5 million tons.
So when you look at those totals it's a pretty good number overall.
And then you guys have talked about the import pressures and especially now on the rebar side as well as Turkey.
I mean assuming that some of these pressures are here to stay is there any value added projects you guys can undertake to address that as well in the rebar and some of these more commoditized markets? Before we answer that specifically I just want to add on the plate side of our business we're currently somewhere around 10% of what we would call highly value added through heat treat growing to about 20% as we bring on the normalizing facility that's currently under construction and the vacuum degasser that's being put into place.
So you're looking at somewhere around 200 000 to 350 000 tons of our 1.5 million 1.6 million ton plate capacity roughly at our Hertford plant.
Now I'm not talking about our Tuscaloosa operation which is another million-plus tons.
And as far as the imports of rebar and Turkey and other Russians and other places Chinese those are going to get dealt with.
They come in cycles unfortunately.
As margins drop down or as we put in place effective trade remedies to the core systems they will be dealt with going forward.
We'd like to think that they would stop on their own because we haven't seen that in the past.
And as far as putting in other products to replace that business because on the order of magnitude the size of our rebar business that just is not going to happen.
That's the bottom line.
And we are continually working to move up in all product lines into more value-added product but we don't vacate the lower value product.
We just use it to grow our total market participation.
And when you have 8 million tons of rebar capability it's not something you're going to replace with a few hundred thousand tons of this or a few hundred thousand tons of that.
It's an issue that has to be dealt with in the marketplace.
And our next question today will come from Sal Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dan I just wanted to ask you a question on your average selling price for the steel division.
It was up $8 quarter-over-quarter from fourth to first quarter considerably lower than the spot market pricing figures.
I was just wondering is it a matter of mix or is it a lag because you have more contracts now and you didn't get the full price increase.
Can you give us some color on that? Are you saying that on sheet product...
Research Division</strong> I'm just looking at your average selling price if I divide your volume of steel shipments should be.
Total value...
Total price of all products.
You have to keep in mind that there have been upward and downward movements depending upon the product during the course of the quarter.
And so you can't draw a generalized comment on the flat-rolled business from that particular change in selling price because you've got an equal amount of long products and plate products included in that.
So I'm not sure I know how to answer that question.
If you want to try again.
Sohail one thing I would add is if you look at the schedules that we posted on our website we have one called sales price and scrap cost.
Our actual steel selling prices in the first quarter were $824.
In the fourth quarter they were $806.
The increase was bigger than $8 per ton.
They are closer to $18 per ton.
Research Division</strong> Okay I was just calculating based on just the volume and revenue okay.
But also how are your contracts? And how much is your flat-rolled contracts? And how do these work? John? Our contract design team [ph] in our sheet business is about 50% and within that 50% of contract business there's a myriad of different pricing mechanisms.
Some are scrap based.
Some are CRU based on a monthly adjusted basis.
And some are CRU based with the changes occurring on a quarterly basis based on the previous quarter's average selling price.
So there's a multitude of different structures but within sheet about 50% of our tonnage is under contract.
On the -- we have a sign here.
Virtually all of our SBQ products 50%.
About 50% of our SBQ products are also under contracts that are based on CRU or other pricing mechanisms.
Yes and on the SBQ contracts we have a base price plus a floating surcharge based on a scrap index.
Research Division</strong> Jim are these monthly contracts monthly adjustments on SBQ? They vary but our contracts typically run from 3 months up to 1 year and they are adjusted monthly based on a scrap index.
Research Division</strong> One more question Dan if I may.
I was reading a report recently that Trinidad is running short of reserves of natural gas and I was wondering how long is your contract over there and what are the adjustments you will have in the contract once that gas price contract runs out.
Yes first off I think what you're referring to as a shortage of natural gas is more an issue of poor maintenance or maintenance issues on the platforms that they have.
And it has caused some interruptions and I don't know exactly how many days we have lost in production down there.
I don't think it's been a huge number.
But the contract itself is not in jeopardy in terms of the life of that contract.
I think we have -- I don't know how many years left 15 years -- 14 or 15 years left in the contract and to the best of my knowledge -- and Ladd Hall you might want to comment -- there's not a concern on our part that there won't be gas available to service that contract.
Ladd? There's no -- in actuality the platform problem ended mid-February.
They're all back online now but they have some excess capacity right now that theyre not even using.
And we don't anticipate at least in the foreseeable future any shortages on natural gas.
And as Dan said we have that contract for the next 14 or 15 years.
So we don't anticipate any problem in Trinidad.
And next we'll go to Aldo Mazzaferro with Macquarie Securities Group.
On the DRI Dan I know your friends at Steel Dynamics are saying that they might be able to save something like $100 a ton against the cost of pig iron once they bring their Mesabi Nugget plant on.
And the way I view your DRI facility it seems like an easier technology more experience that you have with it and certainly larger scale.
But do you think that per ton comparisons -- are you looking at those same kind of things where you could say $350 a ton DRI versus $450 pig or something like that? Listen I don't want to get into commenting about where SDI is or isn't and their Mesabi Nugget experience.
Certainly the DRI is a proven technology.
I think other technologies that we worked with and we have worked with Mesabi Nugget ourselves several years before other people started working with it.
The cost and benefits of the DRI operation are significant larger than the magnitude that you're quoting.
But it depends on where the other raw material pricing is.
It depends on where scrap is.
It depends on where pig iron pricing is.
So to make a blanket statement that it gives a $100 a ton cost advantage over other ways of providing yourself with the raw materials it's very dependent upon where the other pricing is.
Certainly with the price of natural gas where it is and where it'll be they wont stay at these low levels over anywhere near the lifespan of our DRI operations.
We're looking at substantial cost benefits.
That's why we're doing it versus just buying pig iron on the open market let alone prime grades of scrap.
Great.
So Dan are you going to stay fairly short-term in buying practices for iron ore like 3-month-type pricing or where do you think? Well let's see how that works Al.
We have 0 control over iron ore companies that price their product in that order [ph] and price it over.
So we will be subject to whatever the market conditions dictate and until such time as we have some kind of opportunity on our own to be an ore producer or a partner in an ore project which is something that we're continually looking at.
Great.
And final question Dan on the imports I mean I don't want to stir up a hornet's nest but in a sense wasn't it just...
You don't have to.
They already have.
But didn't U.S.
raise prices $100 a ton relative to the world and get a premium that just attracted imports quite simply? And isn't that still legal? That's not the issue whether the prices were $100 a ton difference.
The issue is whether the pricing that they're at is below their home market pricing and below the cost of production.
And certainly if they are abiding by the globally agreed-upon rules in that regard there's no issue.
And we just have to deal with it.
And there's no legal recourse that's going to change that that the issue has been proven time and time again.
I don't know where your head has been lately over the last 20 years Aldo but I know it hasn't been stuck in the sand like an ostrich.
You know darn well that we've won numerous numerous cases against virtually every country in the world for cheating on the global trading system.
And they've held up in court and not only our court but the World Court.
So to imply that if nobody ever does anything wrong when they import it to the United States and that somehow because we had $100 a ton price differential that we were the bad guys.
And out there we try and get -- make a profit on our product when other folks are just interested in dumping their product to keep people employed.
Now that's ludicrous my friend.
But you're entitled to your question.
And next we'll hear from Brian Yu with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the export side can you provide us with a percentage of your shipments that were exported in the quarter? We've been averaging somewhere in the neighborhood of about 10%.
It's probably off a little bit in the first quarter as a result of the economic conditions worldwide.
So it might be down a little bit maybe in the 7% to 8% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then second one just with the point of $50 million that you got committed to the DRI project will any of that be funded by the restricted cash you've got in your balance sheet? I think that's about close to $600 million.
Yes that's what all that cash will be used for is that DRI facility.
Research Division</strong> Okay and will that be going into this year's $450 million spending? Yes it will.
Research Division</strong> All right if I can get one last one.
At SBQ could you give us a sense of what the end markets are and then with the 1 million ton expansion you got coming online would that be geared towards the same end markets? Or do you see that being targeted maybe the strong ones like machinery or whatever else? Obviously automotive as I mentioned earlier in the day heavy truck heavy equipment Caterpillar those kind of operations.
Agricultural is another one that's very strong.
Energy.
Energy would be yet another one that's very strong.
So there are several markets that we are putting our product in today.
And as we continue to bring new grades and qualifications into our Memphis facility that list is growing.
As we talked before some of the heavy equipment manufacturers and other manufacturers are as we speak either opening or building or getting ready to construct new facilities in North America particularly the United States that will increase the demand for those products above where they are today or in a what would have been considered a previously strong volume market.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a rough split of these various type of markets on the SBQ side? I mean just the top 3 or what percentage it might account for.
Auto would definitely be #1.
Heavy equipment would be #2.
How about trucks? Heavy trucks would be #3.
Again I would think more of the question to you that that changes as different market conditions change also but that's how we're seeing it in current.
And our next question today will come from Philip Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just Dan my first question was the status of the EPA review in Louisiana just that we were reading some articles that they were giving you a hard time.
Say that again? Research Division</strong> The EPA review at your Louisiana DRI facility.
We've just been reading that the EPA is giving you a hard time.
The EPA has worked to make it a difficult process at federal level.
Luckily at the state level we've had extremely good cooperation from the state environmental people in Louisiana and we have the permits in place.
Most of the discussions at this point in time revolve around the permit for the blast furnaces that we still have and plan on holding onto and not so much the existing DRI permits.
Research Division</strong> Okay I just have a couple of quick ones for Jim.
First one was just what were the startup costs in the quarter? And two the SG&amp;A looked solidly below what it's been running at over the last several quarters.
Just curious what the reasons for that were.
Okay first on pre-operating and startup cost.
We first began breaking it out in our earnings release in mid-2009 because they were both a material relative to our gross profit and they were materially different than they were in 2008.
And really when we got into 2011 they were no longer material relative to 2011's gross profit but we kept disclosing them because in comparison to 2010 when they were higher there was a change that was fairly material.
Now our earnings release includes the income statements for 2011 and 2012.
And for both those years it's not material and they really arent that materially different on an apples-to-apples basis we include all the different components that have been a part of pre-operating startup costs over the year.
So they're relatively flat.
Theyre not material.
They're just not worth breaking out right now.
We will again in the future when they rise because of the Louisiana startup creating more pre-operating startup costs.
But they just haven't changed that much really.
What's the second part of your question? Research Division</strong> I was asking about SG&amp;A? Yes and that was -- yes we were classifying freight for part of our business differently in the past and we've moved it up in the cost of goods sold.
Some of them we're recording in their first [indiscernible].
There has been a reclass and now we account for freight.
Research Division</strong> So we should look at this as 107? It's been morphed with run rate and the baseline.
And next we'll go to Richard Garchitorena with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is just on the press release there's a comment there saying that you saw unexpected margin weakness in your raw materials business in the Q1.
I'm just wondering if you can give some color on that because you don't get the schedule on pricing and the scrap prices were up quarter-over-quarter.
Yes the scrap pricings up but the price you pay for it is up as well.
Keith do you want to address that? I'll go down 2 different roads with it.
The first one was scrap market moved up as it moved December into January but then pretty much flattened out or moved down from there.
So there was really no sustained upward trend that we had seen in the past during the quarter which is alluded to in the release this morning.
So that's probably really what accounted for a good portion of the squeeze.
And the second one would go back to the earlier question about overcapacity of shredders and all.
So we're fighting for raw material in this overcapacity situation in a market that was trending flat to down.
We saw a squeeze through most of our operations in the -- around the country.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And then my second question it looks like demand is still improving in most end markets with the exception of construction.
So given that and given your expectation of modest improvement in earnings in Q2 is there any way we can sort of figure out what your figure is in terms of volumes going forward? Is it really just the pressure on pricing from higher imports and excess of supply or scrap to basically keep margins flat? Or how should we think about that? Yes yes yes and yes.
The volumes and the pricing go fairly hand in hand.
And so on the demand side because the economy is really growing at a snail's pace on the steel consumption.
And we just recently had some numbers come out in the last day or 2 on manufacturer where there seems to be a bit of a slowdown hopefully thats a temporary thing.
Were not going to get ahead of ourselves on volume forecasts.
We do believe volumes will be up modestly and we do believe pricing on some of our products will be up modestly.
Some products will be sideways down.
And the net of that is we see an environment going through the second quarter that will be more profitable but not in a large way.
And predicting the volumes with still the uncertainties in the economy and the fits and starts in construction that seem to come and go.
It is difficult to do.
And next we'll go to Michelle Applebaum with Steel Market Intelligence.
I have about 12 questions so I'll try to restrict it.
You said unfortunately we can't be more proactive on imports but you're working on things to be more proactive.
Can you give us a little color? Yes when I say we Im talking about the government and so you can take the speed of action out of the government into consideration.
Obviously I'll be qualified by saying that we are working on these things.
And that is we are working on coming up with tools that allow our government to be more proactive i.e.
to respond much quicker to floods of imports.
Other than that I won't go any further.
Okay and the second thing is you're to be congratulated I think for resisting the urge to integrate into iron ore as you were moving forward with Louisiana the last 5 or 6 years.
Now that your disciplined strategy of not investing in iron ore has been rewarded and the market is more flush and properties are more available can you give me some idea of where that stands in terms of your priorities from a use of capital perspective? Subtlety you are not Michelle.
Gee 30 years you didn't notice that.
No its not the first time.
It's the first time Ive commented on it.
As I mentioned earlier we are constantly evaluating the opportunity in iron ore if there is one or not.
And pricing in most commodities go through cycles so we're cognizant of that.
And we have had opportunities that we walked away from because they were too expensive.
And so we will be very cautious about moving into that space but if the opportunity does present itself and there are some opportunities that could be doing that we will -- are taking advantage of them but if we do you can count on the fact that its with the idea that higher pricing will not stay in one place over the life of the business cycle.
Okay can I ask another one? Not 12 but you can ask another one.
Okay because you're answering fast.
So one of the most interesting things I've read in the last 6 months was one of the more traditional integrated steelmakers in their 10-K they've always had a risk factor about mini mills and the risk factors varied over the years but it's always been like lower-cost labor might be competitive but they use scrap and that might hurt them.
And what was interesting this year was this company changed what has been boilerplate language from saying that the mini mills can be a threat but they -- that the integrators are generally able to manufacture a broader range of products.
And they changed it this year to say that the mini mills are increasingly able to compete directly with integrated producers in a number of flat-rolled products previously produced only by integrated steelmaking.
So I thought that was real significant in a competitor's SEC filing.
So my question for you that I've been trying to ask this in the past can you give me some idea of how many tons increase in the market you're going to be able to reach with these investments you're making in flat-rolled? Yes I think John might have a handle on that.
John? Well the sky is the limit as we move forward okay because we never stop climbing the mountain of improved products and quality and finding new ways to enter into new markets.
We've done a great job across our company in all of our products and doing this specific to automotive.
And we -- in the last 5 to 7 years the amount of high strength and ultra high strength products the light gauge that we've been able to produce the quality of our products that we've been able to produce the number of vacuum degassers that we've added all increased each time increased our potential in automotive and other high-value products.
So the number over the last 5 years we've gone from a very small percentage in automotive to a significant player as we've said in the past.
Today we've given you some indication of what we would do in automotive as we go forward.
We've mentioned the wide light project at Berkeley.
And we feel that that's going to boost our participation in automotive strongly.
Being able to produce that product in Berkeley shifted to a state of the art automotive qualified galvanized line in Decatur gives us another window of opportunity.
So we feel very encouraged about what we're doing.
I would add to that -- you're familiar with our Castrip product and our technology.
That opens up another world of opportunity as we continue to grow in grades.
As you know that's an ultralight gauge cold-rolled replacement product and that we are currently investigating opportunities to put that into automotive product also.
Those are some very general product side.
But Michelle if you're looking for absolute tonnages there is -- or percentages of the high quality suppliable market we will be able to service.
John's point is a very good one.
We don't limit ourselves.
We never have even when we were first getting into the flat-rolled business and people said theyll never be able to do anything more than decking and construction grades.
That was just a matter of time to us not a fact that could not be overcome.
And so you have to really look at this from the standpoint of there's nothing in the automotive sector from a quality standpoint in the flat-rolled or other SBQ or what have you that we will and are not already moving into in a strong way.
And when I say strong way we're talking about hundreds of thousands of tons to millions of tons ability to penetrate that market in terms of the type of product we're capable of making.
The rest of it is actually -- comes through being successful and competing for that market.
But there is no limit.
And so that to ask us what -- how many more tons we're going to get or what percentage we're going to get is in our minds limiting and we don't see it as a limiting thing.
There's nothing that we won't be able to reach including exposed automotive.
So I don't know how to answer that question.
There are no limitations.
Maybe and I know these are famous last words but let me ask it a different way.
How much...
Last question.
What? Last question.
Well then I'm just going to ask a different question.
I want you to understand you should ask the most forward questions first and maybe other people will want to ask some questions.
We can go back to your other questions later.
But 4 questions at a time is reasonable.
So you tell me what your next question is.
My next question was I'm 55 am I going to see you making steel in Louisiana before I retire? I don't know.
When are you going to retire? I don't know if David has something to say about it -- what? If youre going to retire next week you will not see us making steel in Louisiana.
If you are years away from it it depends on how many years.
As weve said all along the strategy for the 4 000-plus acre tract on deepwater port in Louisiana is to include everything including steelmaking operations both steel production and downstream.
And it's a matter of time.
And when it all happens our first focus is on the raw materials side.
But you could see how we've talked about the fact that we're exploring additional greenfield opportunities and Louisiana may be one of those places that pops up.
And next we'll go to Sam Dubinsky with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
Apart from another question on the raw materials business could you disclose a ballpark figure for the operating income per ton in Q1? And how should we think about profitability for raw materials going forward? We don't have an operating income per ton for the raw materials to disclose and we typically don't.
We don't disclose individual.
LLC Research Division</strong> Was it operating at a loss this quarter? Are you talking about DRI? Are you talking about scrap? Are you talking about overall combination of them? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes the combination of them.
Both DRI and scrap were individually profitable.
We don't break out those numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then -- sorry if I missed this but you had a tax benefit this quarter what tax rate should we model going forward? If you exclude that adjustment we'd be at 35% or 36% if you also exclude the share of profits belonging to our JV partners.
So if you make that adjustment I'd use somewhere in the 35% to 36% range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last one I think your steel product lines are flattish year-over-year but construction spending bounced a little bit in Q1 for the first time.
Maybe it was weather driven and maybe it just bounced from the bottom but could you explain why your steel products maybe wasn't a little stronger? Was it you de-emphasize some products? Or is there something else behind that? You have to be very careful when you are looking at dollars of construction versus square footage of construction.
And there has not been a significant change in the construction activities.
On top of that you are continually in a competitive environment where you have significant overcapacity in virtually every construction products business that we're in whether it be joist deck pre-engineered metal buildings rebar fabrication.
So you have those -- the situation where there's a lot more growth that's got to come before real pricing power is and margin power is back in the construction product side of the business.
So I wouldn't be looking for anything more than that and explain that situation.
And that will conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll turn things back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Yes.
Thank you all for your interest in Nucor.
For those of you that may not have gotten to ask all of the questions you wanted feel free to send them in to Gregg Lucas and we'll get you answers.
And I wanted to once again thank all of our customers for their support all of our suppliers for taking care of our teammates out on the operations and keeping them well supplied with quality products and all of our teammates around the corporation for working safely and working effectively.
Thank you all very much and our shareholders and our best years are yet to come.
The 470% increase in total return since 2000 is not a thing of the past.
It's a thing of the future and we are building that profit platform to deliver on that as we speak as we always do during downtimes.
And in the meantime we're paying a nice dividend and we'll continue to do so.
So thank you all for your interest in the company.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you everyone for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation's Second Quarter of 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectation and information.
Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions.
There can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed and 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements maybe -- I'm sorry the forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan DiMicco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Toya.
Good afternoon.
This is Dan DiMicco Nucor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: our President and Chief Operating Officer John Ferriola; Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey responsible for our bar group; Keith Grass responsible for our David J.
Joseph's materials handling and scrap group; Ladd Hall responsible for our Flat-Rolled Products group; Ham Lott heading up our Fabricated Products group; and Joe Stratman who's responsible for both Business Development and our Plate and Beam businesses.
First as always and most importantly we want to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin and NuMit/Steel Technology teams for your excellent work in today's extremely challenging economic and steel market conditions.
We are tremendously proud of your unrivaled commitment to working safely taking care of all of our customers building a stronger and more profitable Nucor.
You are and always will be Nucor's greatest asset and our true competitive advantage.
Thank you all.
We also want to extend a very warm welcome to the newest addition to our Nucor family.
In late June the 481 teammates of Skyline Steel joined the Nucor team.
As proven and valued partners for over 2 decades we are extremely excited to welcome you into Nucor.
Together our combined team is uniquely positioned to grow in the steel piling business.
Skyline gives Nucor another attractive growth platform.
We are bringing together the North American market leader in the production of steel piling products Nucor and the North American market leader in the distribution of steel piling products and some of its manufacturer Skyline.
Skyline's product portfolio includes H-piling sheet piling and pipe piling which it fabricates itself.
It is a company and management team that we know very well.
They have been one of Nucor-Yamato's most valued growth partners in this business from day 1.
They are a significant consumer of our H-piling and sheet piling products.
Again welcome to all of our Nucor-Skyline teammates.
I'll then ask our CFO Jim Frias to discuss our second quarter results and financial position.
He will be followed by John Ferriola who will report on Nucor's operations and growth initiatives.
Then I will conclude our presentation with some general comments on the economy and Nucor's growth strategy.
Jim? Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
Second quarter 2012 earnings of $0.35 per diluted share were at the low end of our guidance range of $0.35 to $0.40 per diluted share.
Our second quarter results were negatively impacted by a noncash charge of $8.5 million or $0.02 per diluted share due to purchase accounting charges and intercompany profit eliminations related to our Skyline acquisition.
These costs were not factored into our guidance which was issued several days prior to the closing of the acquisition.
Second quarter results also included an impairment charge of $0.09 per diluted share related to our Duferdofin-Nucor joint venture located in Italy.
This impairment charge was factored into our mid-quarter quantitative guidance.
Nucor acquired its 50% interest in Duferdofin a producer of beams and bars in July of 2008 for a cash purchase price of approximately $667 million.
Our $30 million impairment charge resulted from Duferdofin's disappointing performance through the first half of 2012 combined with increasing economic turmoil in Europe.
It incorporates the impact on our fair value model of both greater losses in the near term and a slower than previously expected recovery to historic profitability.
Although our timing on this acquisition has proven to be poor in the short run we continue to view Duferdofin as a very attractive asset offering solid long-term value.
Nucor's second quarter operating performance reflected mixed trends across our diverse product portfolio.
Profitability at our steelmaking business has been severely impacted by an import search across most products.
The sheet steel markets have also been challenged by new domestic supply that began production in 2011.
Lower scrap pricing has depressed the profitability of our scrap processing business.
On the positive side our downstream products business reported its first profitable quarter since the fourth quarter of 2008.
Nucor's Fabricated Construction Products joist and decking rebar fabrication and preengineered metal buildings returned to profitability as a result of market share gains improved pricing and effective management of costs.
While first half of 2012 earnings decreased by 44% from the year-ago level cash generated from operations actually increased by more than 50% to $446 million.
Nucor benefits from a countercyclical cushion provided to our cash flow as lower scrap and steel prices reduce our working capital investment during downturns.
Nucor's consistent cash flow performance is also helped by our highly variable cost structure.
Balance sheet strength remains another competitive advantage for Nucor.
Standard &amp; Poor's in its July 10 report entitled North American Metals and Mining Companies Strongest to Weakest again ranked Nucor #1 for credit rating and credit outlook among a universe of 72 companies.
Nucor was also the only metals and mining company in the group that S&amp;P awarded a strong business risk profile due to our competitive position and profit performance relative to our peers.
We are the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the very important competitive advantage of an investment grade credit rating.
Globally our credit rating is matched by only one other steel producer Nippon Steel.
The benefits of our credit rating include a lower cost of capital financial flexibility and our position as the lowest risk counterparty for both customers and suppliers.
Cash short-term investments and restricted cash totaled $2.2 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2012.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn.
It does not mature until December 2016.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
At the end of the second quarter long-term debt totaled $4.3 billion.
We expect our leverage to decline as a result of long-term debt maturities of $650 million in the fourth quarter of this year and an additional $250 million in 2013.
Our plan is to fund those maturities by drawing from a healthy liquidity position and continued strong operating cash flow.
Current economic conditions remain very difficult.
However the Nucor team is aggressively taking advantage of opportunities arising in this environment to grow our company's long-term earnings power.
As we often say Nucor uses cyclical downturns as opportunities to grow stronger.
We are able to do this because of our conservative balance sheet our healthy cash flow generation throughout the economic cycle and a long-term approach to managing our business.
In 2012 we are continuing to invest in projects that will grow our long-term earnings power and provide attractive returns to our shareholders.
In June we completed the acquisition of Skyline Steel the North American market leader in the distribution of steel piling products.
The cash purchase price was approximately $684 million.
Over the 5-year period ending in 2011 Skyline's annual EBITDA averaged $90 million.
Additionally we expect to realize meaningful synergies from this acquisition.
It is expected to be accretive to cash flow immediately and to earnings by the fourth quarter of this year.
Our projected 2012 capital spending of approximately $1 billion includes a number of growth investments.
The largest project is our Louisiana direct reduced iron raw materials facility currently under construction.
A number of other projects are being implemented throughout our upstream steelmaking and downstream businesses to develop new products increase quality and reduce costs.
John Ferriola will update you on our recent progress implementing our capital spending plan.
In addition to allowing us to invest in attractive growth opportunities Nucor's strong financial position in cash flow generation has enabled our company to reward our shareholders with impressive record on cash dividends.
Nucor has increased its regular base dividend for 39 consecutive years.
Our base quarterly dividend has increased by approximately tenfold over the past 11 years reflecting the Nucor's team's success in growing long-term earnings power.
For the third quarter of 2012 we expect to see a modest reduction in earnings from the second quarter level excluding the onetime charge of $0.09 per share and further purchase accounting and intercompany profit eliminations related to Skyline.
Third quarter results should benefit from lower scrap costs and a likely improvement in customer buying patterns if scrap pricing stabilizes as we currently expect.
In addition we're beginning to see the positive impacts of some reduction in sheet imports as well as recently shuttered capacity and reduced operating rates by newer domestic market entrants.
Current efforts to raise sheet pricing above recent lows are meeting with some success.
However global economic uncertainty is a risk factor for the short-term outlook.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance around the middle of the final month of the quarter.
Nucor is in a position of strength to build on our company's long tradition of being effective stewards of our shareholders' valuable capital.
We are excited by the opportunities we see ahead to reward our shareholders with very attractive long-term returns.
Our team will achieve this by growing Nucor's long-term earnings power rewarding Nucor shareholders with attractive dividends and maintaining Nucor's strong balance sheet.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
Dan? Thank you Jim.
I'll now ask John Ferriola to report on Nucor's operations and the implementation of our growth initiatives.
John? Thanks Dan.
Good afternoon.
Let me begin by thanking all of our raw materials steelmaking and steel product teams for your outstanding commitment to working safely and to taking care of Nucor's customers.
Thank you and please keep it going.
We are very proud of the results our team is achieving in 2012's extremely challenging environment and we are extremely excited about the impressive work being done on our raw materials steelmaking and downstream products teams during these bad times to prepare Nucor for the good times ahead.
Our team at Nucor Steel Louisiana made excellent progress during this year's first half on the construction of our new DRI plant in St.
James Parish.
The heavy haul road from the Mississippi River to the facility is nearing completion.
Piling and concrete work is complete in the core plant area and work has recently begun on the port which we expect to be completed by the end of this year.
Most importantly we are on schedule for a mid-2013 start of DRI production.
Our construction team has done an outstanding job in overcoming the challenges that inevitably arise with an undertaking of this magnitude and scope.
At the same time this project is yet another great example of how our company succeeds by everyone working together.
A number of Nucor's divisions have supported our Louisiana team with personnel and expertise to help in the areas of environmental engineering and hiring.
And of course our divisions are major suppliers of material and equipment for the construction of the plant.
Thank you to all of our teammates associated with this important project for working safely and working together towards an on-time on-budget start.
Our Louisiana DRI project is a huge step forward implementing Nucor's raw material strategy.
Combining Louisiana's annual capacity of over 2.5 million tons with our Trinidad plants' 2 million tons annual capacity brings us to about 2/3 of our goal to control from 6 million to 7 million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes.
And we expect our raw material strategy to be a game changer in advancing Nucor's growth in the sheet and SBQ markets.
Here's why.
First Nucor has already achieved world-class performance in both quality productivity and DRI production at our Trinidad plant.
Second our investments in natural gas assets have secured a long-term and low-cost energy supply.
Together these provide us with an extremely attractive cost structure of the high quality iron units required to produce higher value-added higher margin sheet and SBQ products.
I would like to highlight that Nucor's sheet and SBQ mills are already growing their presence in one of the prime markets for high value-added steel the automotive market.
Through the first 6 months of 2012 our steel mills' shipments into the automotive market increased approximately 20% over the prior year period and more specifically our direct shipments to our automotive OEM customers increased about 25% year-over-year.
This is more evidence that refutes the claims by some financial market observers that Nucor is "just a construction play." Nucor is maintaining its leadership position in construction products while at the same time expanding our participation in a number of other attractive value-added markets including automotive energy heavy equipment consumer durables agricultural transportation and industrial goods.
The acquisition of Skyline Steel was another major second quarter 2012 development in the implementation of our growth strategy.
The opportunity that it provides for profitable growth are numerous for both our steelmaking and our piling distribution businesses.
Skyline will become a more valuable downstream consumer of Nucor's coiled plate and sheet products.
In addition Skyline will develop synergies with our other downstream operations in providing value-added one Nucor solutions to the construction industry.
Shortly after the acquisition of Skyline closed last month Nucor-Yamato announced a $115 million project to add several new sheet piling sections.
This announcement highlights the fact that Skyline provides Nucor-Yamato with excellent opportunities to expand its portfolio of sheet piling products.
The Nucor-Yamato project will add several new sheet piling sections.
These new offerings will increase the single sheet widths by 22% and provide a lighter stronger sheet covering more areas at a lower installed cost.
This combined initiative is an excellent example of Nucor's time-proven highest-return strategy for profitable growth investments that optimize our existing operations.
I also have good news to share about another investment that will increase Nucor's long-term earnings power.
Our Hertford County North Carolina plate mill team has begun pipe commission of their new vacuum tank degasser.
This new value-added capacity will build on the outstanding success of a heat treat line that began operations last year and continues to run at full capacity.
Additionally a normalizing line will be commissioned in 2013.
These investments are expanding our plate mill group's value-added product mix into new applications including armor plate half-craft [ph] quality alloys offshore oil platforms and petroleum refineries.
Two other major projects to increase our value-added portfolio the vacuum tank degasser at our Hickman Arkansas sheet mill and our wide light project at our Berkeley County South Carolina sheet mill are continuing on time and on budget.
In conclusion our team's unrelenting focus remains on long-term sustainable growth in Nucor's profitability.
We are continuing Nucor's historical and highly successful strategy of preparing for the good times during the bad times.
Working together our team is building an exciting and very rewarding future for all members of the Nucor family our teammates our customers and our shareholders.
Thank you for your interest in our company.
Dan? Thank you John.
Day in and day out the news flow regarding our economy gives little reason for short-term optimism.
The challenges are most definitely real and serious but the Nucor team firmly believes these problems if defined and understood properly all have solutions.
Our view of the situation is unchanged.
The time is right and long overdue to reinvigorate the American economy by seizing new opportunities in energy infrastructure rebuilding and growing a globally competitive U.S.
manufacturing sector that will prosper in an environment of rules-based free trade and an improved global competitiveness here at home.
Nucor's success over nearly 5 decades has always been driven by our long-term focus in running and growing our business.
And our team is bullish on the American people and their ability to do the right things over the long run.
That is why we are busy building a stronger Nucor.
A stronger Nucor is one positioned to deliver the higher highs and higher lows in earnings power through success in economic cycles.
In the last cyclical peak in the economy in 2008 until the end of 2012 Nucor will have invested more than $6.5 billion of capital by a disciplined execution of our multipronged long-term growth strategy.
That is why Nucor is primed and ready to generate higher highs and earnings once a sustainable economic recovery inevitably arise.
That is why my confidence has never been greater that Nucor's best years are ahead of us.
At this point in time we'll be happy take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Okay we'll move first to the site of Kuni Chen.
Research Division</strong> I guess just first off there's been some controversy over the air permits down in Louisiana.
Can you just give us an update there? What's the risk that that leads to some delays? And what's your pathway to get this resolved in the timeline? Rumors always abound particularly on issues that concern how the environmental issues might be handled on a new project.
The fact is we have 0 concern.
I repeat 0 concern that the project will be delayed due to the permitting issues because our permits are in place legal and supported by the state and actually discussed openly by Lisa Jackson as being signs of a successful functioning of the EPA.
Having said that there are always nuisance suits that develop which are being dealt with and will in no way slow down the project.
Our biggest issue today on that project is the water level in the Mississippi River.
And the good news lately is that a -- the river Corps of Engineers is forecasting a 9-inch rise because of rains in the Ohio Valley so keep your fingers crossed as the rain continues where it's needed both for the crops and for the Mississippi River.
Anyone else like to make any comments on that? Go ahead.
No that's pretty valid Dan.
And it might be worth noting.
I mean these permits have been thoroughly read both in the public arena advantage [ph] okay with the state agency and frankly in the courts already all of which gives us the confidence that Dan alluded to that construction will continue and we will complete this project on time.
Research Division</strong> Okay good to know.
And just as a follow-up on the automotive side I know it's about 10% of your mix right now.
And as you know other steel folks have a much higher proportional mix there.
Do you think we could see Nucor dedicating even more resources to growing your share in automotive? And can you talk about how your strategy there may play out particularly from a sheet products' perspective? The simple answer to that is yes and I'll ask John to elaborate on that.
Yes we reported in the past that about 10% of our sheet shipments have gone into the automotive.
Frankly those were numbers that we gave last year and it has increased since that time.
It's higher today and it continues to grow.
As we continue to develop more value-added products we'll continue to grow in that market.
A good example of the investments that we're making to accomplish that is our project that we refer to as our wide light project at Berkeley.
The 72-inch-wide sheet will give us more occupations in the automotive arena as well as the vacuum tank degasser at our Hickman facility which will give us a better portfolio of what we call deep-drawn steels and extreme deep-drawn steels which are very very commonly used in the automotive industry.
Today on the sheet side we're in the neighborhood of about 12% to 13% of our shipments going into automotive and I'll also point out that that's -- we've talked about sheet but our participation in automotive through the SBQ product has also grown tremendously as Memphis continues to come online with more and more qualifications going into automotive.
I guess my last comment that I'll make about our participation in automotive is this.
We sell product today to virtually every domestic and new domestic automotive company in production and we are very proud of the fact that our team continues to grow in that very important market to us.
We'll move next to the site of Michelle Applebaum with Steel Market.
Steel Market Intelligence.
A couple of questions.
I noticed that your reported price per ton dropped by 1.4% in the second quarter versus the first quarter but the market dropped about 6%.
Was there a product mix shift in the quarter? And how did that work? John? Yes there was definitely some product mix shift during the quarter.
Also frankly in the quarter we were challenged with some imports that have continued to flood into the country.
That was a challenge for us.
The fact that the overall pricing decreased is probably a function more of the overall economic conditions in the country.
It's a challenge for us and as it is for all of our -- for the industry.
So product mix general economic conditions imports all are factors in the decrease.
I guess I wasn't clear.
I'm asking your prices went down very little relative to -- much less than the market.
Was that about like more value-added or more higher price? It's attributed to the great job that our commercial team does so I want to thank them all for that.
It is definitely a function of the fact that we are moving higher into the value-added products.
And our whole focus on a commercial effort by moving into more value-added products and through our commercial excellence program has been to make us more sticky to the customer.
When you're more sticky to the customer it gives you greater pricing power and those are some of the reasons why we fared better than the industry as a whole in the quarter.
Great.
Can I ask a second one? Please.
Okay.
Iron ore when you -- I must've asked when you first started the iron I probably asked a bunch of times what are you going to do about iron.
And clearly waiting was validated.
So now what are you going to do about iron at -- in Louisiana? The current strategy is to continue to feed the DRI plant in Trinidad and the new one that will start up mid '13 with supplies from our existing pellet suppliers for DRI pellets.
And as far as iron ore goes when there's something to talk about if there's ever anything to talk about we'll talk about it.
But thanks for the question.
We'll move next to the site of Luke Folta with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The first question I had was Jim you threw out an average EBITDA for Skyline over the last 5 years.
I think it was $90 million if I heard correctly.
That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are you all able to provide a trailing 12-month number? And also can you give us the revenue over the 5-year time frame? No we're not going to disclose either of those.
I just stated that over the 5 years there wasn't a lot of -- variation was pretty steady.
There wasn't a peak or value that was very pronounced.
It was pretty steady.
So pleasingly so.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In regards to how much steel that you had sold them previously versus what you expect to do now can you talk about that and maybe how much -- what those percentages were in just some rough sense? Joe do you want to make any comments about that? It is Joe Stratman.
Joe? This is Joe Stratman.
What I'll say is clearly the -- on the H-piling business and on the sheet piling business that Skyline does Nucor-Yamato had been its major supplier for 2 decades as we said in our opening remarks.
And I would say that in those 2 categories the percentages that were supplied by Nucor were well over 75% 80% of the business.
In the pipe piling as Dan mentioned Skyline actually manufactures their own pipe piling out of flat-rolled coil both of a plate nature and a sheet nature.
And that is where our opportunity for growth in internal with -- from Nucor mills is.
And to speculate as to yes where that business is going to grow to and how much of that's coming in I really don't have numbers to throw at you today on a percentage basis.
What we're talking about in terms of the opportunity to bring that additional flat-rolled sales in-house to Nucor as opposed to the previous owners we're talking about somewhere between 150 000 and 200 000 tons of additional tonnage.
And of course all that goes without discussing the fact that the opportunity is to grow the overall Hertford [ph] and company.
Now they're part of Nucor whether it'd be in sheet piling pipe piling H-piling will certainly be there for us as the market allows us to.
But you're looking at somewhere around a 20% improvement in opportunity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk about what your expectations are for D&amp;A going forward then? No we're not going to break that out specifically yet.
We don't have that isolated.
We're still working on the allocation of the purchase price to the assets.
We'll move next to the site of Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask just 2 questions one about capital allocation considerations and the other just to clarify your outlook.
So with regard to how you're thinking about uses of cash you like you said have one of the best balance sheets globally along with Nippon Steel.
Can you give us any updates on how you're thinking about the opportunities of buying dislocated assets out there versus building or your own organic growth? Well our philosophy there really hasn't changed and the opportunities really haven't changed over the past several years that would cause us to do that.
In general the world today is suffering from massive overcapacity because of the economic conditions that are out there both here in the States and now popping -- certainly popped up in Europe and now popping up in Asia.
So the idea of building new capacity for new capacity's sake certainly throughout most of the world is not a good use of shareholders' capital.
Our interest at the current time primarily focused on shoring up our existing operations where we have several hundreds of millions of dollars being spent there.
We've indicated in the earlier calls.
And also strengthening our vertical integration both downstream with David Joseph Harris rebar and now Skyline and our new product and process developments at our fabricated products divisions like our joist and deck operations and obviously our DRI operations that will be built in Louisiana.
That's where our allocation of the capital is for the most part whether they'd be to grow our existing operations vertically in both directions or to take advantage of acquisition opportunities as they come forward.
As far as greenfield opportunities go we have talked in the recent past about another plate mill.
And under the current conditions in the world that probably is something that's being put on the back burner as we speak and will depend upon how things proceed with the global economies over the next couple of years as to what gets done there.
But our overall strategy still focuses on: number one investing in our existing operations; number two investing in the vertical integration both up and down the line as the opportunities present themselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just to clarify on your guidance if I could.
So you talked kind of about a cautious outlook but you also talked about opportunities with scrap falling and prices recovering which would imply some sort of margin expansion.
So is the risk you're thinking of the third quarter more on the volume side? Is that how should we should interpret your comments? No I think you should interpret them as being that we're in a very vertical state in the economy both here and around the world.
There's a lot of instability potential instability a lot of concerns over risks in the global and domestic economies.
There are some things that are moving in the direction that will be positive for us.
There are some things that are moving in a direction that will be negative for us.
And as we highlight those we like to highlight both the positive directions and the negative directions.
So I wouldn't focus so much on volumes per se but certainly there'll be things that will be impacting the margins.
As you know selling prices have come down as scrap prices come down.
That's a two-edged sword.
In the long run it benefits us.
In the short run it can catch us in a negative way on the scrap side in our scrap business and also as a lag that exists out there for the lower scrap prices that make their way through the transportation system and into our actual usage in the mills.
So most of what you're seeing in our guidance is a recognition that we are still in a very unstable economic climate and things are moving in both directions and how they break and what their impact is relative to one another is still an unknown.
We just know that those directions are there and that the pluses and minuses we believe will take us to a point similar to where we've been so far in the first 6 months of the year.
They could bring more positive.
And as we have mentioned already that there is a price realization improvement because of the last sheet price increase and the scrap has come down.
Although how far that's fallen and whether it stays there or goes back up is something that we should know much more better over the next 30 -- 15 to 30 days.
We'll move next to the site of Arun Viswanathan with Longbow Research.
Yes I just have a similar kind of question.
Maybe you can talk to me a little bit about what you saw in the quarter.
Sheet I know is down.
But as an earlier question you guys suffered less and was that because of you still had some orders that were booked at higher rates in the first quarter? And then similarly structural was actually up.
Is that still going up? And so how does that impact your third quarter outlook as far as the difference between sheet and kind of along products markets? On the structural side it's probably as much a function of mix.
We're depending upon what products are moved -- being shipped more heavily whether it'd be piling products.
H-piling is probably the most competitive.
Sheet piling is a higher value-added.
We've been exporting whenever possible which can have an influence on pricing in either direction depending on strengths out there.
But in all reality it's probably more a question of some higher value-added mixes on the structural side but that also applies to the flat-rolled side.
Our teams have been doing as John stated an excellent job of moving up the value-added curve and up the pricing curve along with that in our flat-rolled.
John? You hit the major points Dan.
Maybe just to talk in general about some of the other products.
On the bars side business has been pretty stable and we're challenged as always by imports particularly on the rebar aside where imports during the last quarter and frankly through the first half of this year just surged up.
But even with that surge we've been holding our own and fairly stable same with  merchant plate.
We're also seeing a surging of imports on the plate side particularly the cut plate.
But again because of the work of our commercial team and the investments we have made at Hertford both with the [indiscernible] line and the value-added products that were coming online for the vacuum tank degasser we've been able to hold our own there and have a stable water entry right and a stable backlog.
Okay.
I guess what I was struggling with was last year in the second quarter you were at $8.94 per sheet.
By the fourth quarter you'd gone down to $7.47 and that kind of falloff was I guess somewhat commensurate with what we saw in the market.
However this year you're at $7.80 in the first quarter and you're only at $7.59 in the second quarter.
And that's really not close to what we saw in commodity hot-rolled.
So I guess it has been mix in your own businesses.
So that was nice to see.
The other I guess part of my question -- or the -- another question I had was on the scrap side.
Can you just talk to me about -- or us about your book in the second quarter? And do you expect to see much of the falloff as a benefit in your third quarter guidance? Talking about scrap? Yes.
Yes there's been over $100 a ton drop in scrap over the past couple of buys and some of that may be given back to the market which I think just remains to be seen how much if any.
There seems to be some indication of stabilization of scrap after the last combined drops that will benefit us in the second quarter.
How much depends on exactly the timing of outflows of scrap moved to the transportation channels into our yards and then from our yards into the melt mix.
John? That was the point that I was going to add.
We will see more of that impact as we go into the third quarter because of our inventory levels in our existing mills.
So as it comes through the chain as Dan pointed out and into the mill we'll see some of the benefit from that.
One thing that we do watch as we watch the upflow of material across our scales at our yards to get some sense of what's happening going forward and we have seen that slow down as a function of the decrease in pricing that Dan mentioned and also the extreme heat that we've gone through the last 6 weeks.
So all of that we see as bringing some stability going forward into the market.
That together with some uptick in the export activity that we've seen in the recent few weeks.
Keith do you have anything you want to add to that? That's it.
You guys covered it pretty well.
We'll move next to the site of Sohail Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of housekeeping questions and then just another question.
What was the export in the second quarter? And what was the startup cost? Exports and startup costs? I'll start with the startup costs.
Per operating startup cost in the first quarter were just over $7 million.
They were closer to $18 million $19 million in the second quarter.
And they'll be relatively flat going to the third quarter.
John do you have some information on it? Yes a couple of comments on exports.
We've had a lot of challenges in the export market.
As you know the situation in Europe the currency.
But despite that our international team has just done an outstanding job.
We exported about 11% of our product in the first quarter and we maintained that percentage through the second quarter.
So kudos to our international team.
They've done a great job there despite a very challenging environment and our export ratio has been stable.
Research Division</strong> And then I have a question on the strategy going forward.
You have always mentioned in Louisiana Phase 2 Phase 3 where eventually you want to as market conditions get better build a mill a blast furnace mill and so forth.
So I was just wondering if the Thyssen asset friction of that portfolio is in that strategy if you can buy it at a very decent rate -- amount and have a very high quality rolling mill which you can then attach to a DRI-based either a blast furnace or electric arc furnace in the future.
That was a pretty neat way of dragging on what we might be doing or not doing there conversation Sohail.
I wondered why it took you a second to push the mute button.
I don't mean that in a negative way.
I thought it was a good question.
As far as our strategy in Louisiana goes it hasn't really changed from the standpoint of what the future holds down there.
We are currently permitted for 2 DRI facilities and a blast furnace and coke oven operation.
A lot will depend on how markets develop and how economic growth stabilizes and moves forward over the next 5 to 10 years as to exactly how much more we do down there.
Our plans do also call for either steelmaking activities or downstream activities.
An expansion of the raw material strategy could very well be in the cards for Louisiana.
Now as far as [indiscernible]  goes that's one of those bridges that never should've been built but it's here and it's for sale.
People will be looking at it.
How it would fit in with our strategy in Louisiana? Certainly if we were interested it could have a place.
But the big issue there is the market doesn't need it.
And the big question is who's going to be interested and what's it going to cost? Certainly there's very few steel companies that are in business today that aren't at least thinking about "Jeez what's going to happen there? And should we have an involvement?" But as far as where our involvement is or isn't I really can't get into that.
We'll move next to the site of Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of ones here for you.
First on operating rates it seems like we have various blast furnace producers taking some downtime in the second half here and imports seem to be tapering off.
So I was wondering if it's safe to say that you guys are expecting an uptick in operating rates in the third quarter.
And if so is that factored into your rough guidance here for modestly lower earnings next quarter? Well certainly on the plus side as we mentioned in our earnings release and in our script there are a lot of things like the shutdown of the RG assets and the pullback of ThyssenKrupp on putting steel into the marketplace because they're up for sale and other things that have taken place at the integrated plants.
But before I go any further on that I just want to make sure you understand that at the electric furnace shops we don't announce changes in production ahead of time because they can be made at basically at a moment's notice as opposed to a blast furnace that has to be planned for and gets talked about.
And then when it's shut down it's shut down for a period of time before they can look at bringing it back and market conditions improve.
We've moved in and out dependent upon our order entry what it is how strong it is.
And we're not unaffected by the slowdowns and demand or the oversupply in the marketplace.
So as you've seen our operating rates in the second quarter had moderated.
But in terms of -- what was the rest of your question? I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Basically have you thought you were going to gain any share over the quarter since some of your competitors were taking downtime? Was there enough demand to perhaps facilitate some more orders on your part? Well I don't know.
What demands out there remains to be seen.
There are a lot of moving parts of scrap coming down maybe going up maybe staying stable.
If you forecast [ph] what's going to happen there that can change in a couple of months' notice and how the domestic players actually continue to go forward on their capacity cutbacks if they do which can change as well.
In general the industry the people who are operating their mills should benefit from the fact that some people have cut back or shut down completely as in the case of RG.
Whether we actually pick up market share or not is tough to predict because the economy is still very weak overall and there still is volume force to back them up.
There's still a significant amount of tonnage coming in from overseas across most products.
So in terms of how we look at the third quarter we're probably looking at similar levels of our production to the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one other question.
Been hearing a lot about the severe weakness in the export plate market particularly in Asia.
Some of the latest numbers I've heard out of there were about $560 a metric ton FOB.
And I was surprised to see in your guidance here that you mentioned plate as one of the better-situated products going forward.
I was wondering if you maybe could elaborate on your view there.
Have you seen any storm clouds on the horizon? Well certainly we keep an eye on the imports and we'll take the appropriate action both commercially and on the political perspective if we see a surge -- if we see the surge continue unrestrained.
In terms of why we feel fairly confident in our plate ability going forward we talked about it several times.
We have the value-added products that we're going to introduce to the market.
We have a strong relationship with our customers.
We've got a great reputation for quality service and on-time delivery.
And we keep them competitively priced.
For those reasons we feel that we will see stability going forward in our plate business.
And there's no doubt that we will and the industry is already making moves to deal with imports coming in and we started talking about the kind of crisis you're talking about over in Asia to get them over here.
They clearly would be dumped.
And I think that will be dealt with if people are foolish enough to do that which they historically seem to be.
But the big thing as John mentioned is we've been growing our percentage of value-added business at our plate mills and changing our product mix at our plate mill in Tuscaloosa to be more plate versus coiled plate oriented that the product mix is working in our favor at the same time as there is definitely some softness in the pricing that's being created by the imports that have come in.
And if they get out of hand we'll have to maybe reevaluate where things are at.
But right now we're hopeful that we will be able to keep that from happening because of our proactive efforts in Washington and elsewhere.
And we do have a very strong commercial program for dealing with imports and pricing product to be competitive against imports as they rear their heads.
Of course the other thing is we do have scrap working on our favor as well which benefits us in the plate area as well as in other areas.
Overall demand in plate is still good.
That's the key thing and it's one of the stronger markets so it's a matter of the supply side and the product mix and how they move forward together.
We'll move next to the site of Tony Rizzuto with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got of question about the end markets just to pursue that a little bit and again in the release you indicate the markets that remain improved.
And I'm wondering I've been hearing that some of the machinery and equipment manufacturers are talking to suppliers now about slowing trends in the second half.
And I wonder are you guys seeing any impact of that? And if you could kind of describe in July how the order book has shaped up a little bit because I understand obviously the 4th of July come in the middle of the week people took off and maybe slowed that down.
But what are kind of the trends you're seeing so far as we look into the third quarter right now? John? Well we look at across all of our products on the order entry rates.
As you pointed out it's a difficult month to use as a guide because of the holiday and the way that it fell right in the middle of the week really messed up the order entry for that week.
That said we have seen some slowing through the month on pretty much across our product lines.
But again as we've said several times we see in most of our products stability going forward in our backlog and in our order entry rates.
So we're keeping an eye on it again and all the things we've talked about so far.
We have to keep an eye on the imports and we have to keep an eye on what's happening in the marketplace with demand and we'll act accordingly.
But at this point we see stability in most of our products.
Dan alluded to the situation in plate that we have to keep an eye on with the pricing in Asia.
We will do that.
But right now things look fairly stable.
As I mentioned a few minutes ago Tony that the volume side of the equation for the third quarter we believe will be similar to the second quarter overall.
And as John said we're going on a holiday month like July.
The way things worked out it's tough to draw conclusions just from that.
It's more a sense of what's happening in the marketplace with the competition and the overall order entry level is not out of balance one way or the other on average for our products.
So as you know we don't like to give short-term emphasis on what's going on but we do have to talk about the quarter coming up and our general guidance as we see volumes holding their own.
We'll move next to the site of Michael Gambardella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions for you one that you'll like and one that you probably won't like which one do you want first? You be the judge.
If you want give me the one you like first how's that? Research Division</strong> That you'll like first all right.
So you made some comments early in your comments about how much money you've invested in growing the earnings base of the company.
And obviously that's hard to see right now.
But if we were to take pricing back in the volume levels back in the '06 to '08 period...
Wait a minute I'm getting -- my heart is palpitating very fast there.
Research Division</strong> What I'm trying to say is you did around $4 to $6 a share in those 3 years.
How much earnings power on an EPS basis in that type of volume and pricing condition do you think you've added in the last 5 7 years? Mike this is Jim Frias.
We can't give you a specific number but it is significant.
I don't know if it -- it's probably not a doubling but it's a significant improvement.
Let me just toss something out there.
One way you could potentially look at this is to look at how our company's doing today in a marketplace where the construction is at its lowest level in I don't know 30 40 years.
Obviously very challenged.
And for our company which has historically had a strong participation in construction for us to be doing -- operating at the levels today with construction being so weak it could give you some insight as to how things might look when construction inevitably returns.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now the question you're probably not going to like.
Before you get to that you asked me a good question.
As Jim said it's not going to be double where it was but it is going to be...
Research Division</strong> 50% higher EPS? It has the potential to be that yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So back in 1990 the electric arc percent of total production in the U.S.
was 37% and you had just introduced a new technology thin slab casting that basically got you into the flat-rolled markets which doubled the potential size of your market.
Today electric arc furnace is about 62% of total U.S.
production.
So kind of the easy pickings and most of your competitors that were easy to pick off back in the '90s and early 2000s have gone through bankruptcy restructured their costs and there's also -- to go from 62% electric furnace you can go higher obviously in the industry but you're getting to a point where you need to put higher iron units in the product to make it applicable to the end markets.
Say in automotive for exposed auto parts yes you can make exposed auto parts in the electric furnace but you're probably going to have to use pig iron or DRI up around 75% 80%.
No no not that high.
Not that high.
Research Division</strong> Well pretty high.
Take it that in general you're correct.
You'll be using a higher percentage of those types of product in your mix but nowhere near 70%.
But go ahead keep going.
Research Division</strong> So I guess what I'm saying is with electric furnace already at 62% in the U.S.
of total production and the other competitors on the integrated side that you had picked off pretty easily in the '90s and they've gone through bankruptcy they've restructured.
Certainly they don't have the cost structure you do.
But are you getting to a saturation point is what I'm saying.
In terms of our earnings capability? Research Division</strong> No obviously you've added a lot of earnings capability but just in terms of just volume penetration.
Well listen there's 2 ways for Nucor to grow if I just take your overall supposition okay? Number one just because 62% of the electric furnace industry or the steel industry is dominated by 62% electric furnace doesn't mean our growth in the electric furnaces can't take place and it doesn't have to take place just at the expense of the integrators.
Secondly listen if there are electric furnace operations and integrated operations that still has serious competitive challenges in front of them and so the opportunity is for growth at Nucor into either 1 of those 2 categories so you shouldn't just look at it like the only way we grow all right and hence we're being limited is because so much of the issues are EAF-based.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fair.
So let me ask you in that regard...
So we can grow into both.
As we've shown when we -- with the acquisitions that we made and the growth we've done between 2000 and 2010 all that took place on the EAF side.
Research Division</strong> So on the EAF side today your commentary about the plate business and going in the value-added plate I guess you're targeting the old Lukens operations that's owned by Arcelor now? No were not targeting competitors per se.
We're targeting markets and our job is to go out and to win the customers' business because we're easy to do business with we provide better quality product and at a lower cost and they know we're going to be around for decades and decades to come where some of our competition is not going to be.
So targeting is a bad way to put that and that's not the way it should be looked at.
We're targeting markets for sure not necessarily producers but the markets yes.
And you have to keep in mind that our strategy does not involve just moving it to higher value-added products.
It also involves improving our cost structures dramatically by moving into vertical integration backwards into raw materials and to increase our downstream business activities where profitability tends to be stronger with the acquisition making and the growth we're seeing in our downstream businesses.
So I'm a little bit at a loss to follow the logic they start out with about 62% EAF 38% integrated you got no place to grow.
Research Division</strong> It's not you have no place to grow.
But the places to grow on volume are shrinking compared to where they were in '90.
Well listen we're a 25-million 26-million-ton-a-year producer okay? That's what our low-cost high-quality produced competitive modern equipment.
We went from -- we doubled from where we were back in 2000.
To double again we'd be going to 50 million tons.
That actually is theoretically possible.
But certainly it gets tougher to do the bigger you get to grow about the same relative percentages.
But we're far from being limited into profitable growth of the company and there are still opportunities to grow our steel footprint significantly.
John you seem like you have a few things to say.
I'm kind of just chuckling a little bit because you used the term game changer when we spoke of what we did in 1990.
It was the thin strip casting technology and I would suggest to you I used the word game changer in reference to our raw material strategy and what we're doing on that front.
And we believe that that's going to be the next step for us DRI and our entire raw material strategy.
What we've accomplished in Trinidad in increasing the quality and productivity of the DRI production in Trinidad we're confident we'll be able to duplicate in Louisiana.
That's going to give us an advantage in all of the products that you mentioned.
That's going to allow us to continue to move further off the value-added chain higher quality products higher quality scrap substitutes deal with the potential issues that you're alluding to on the scrap side because of the increase in the electric arc furnace capacity entrenchment.
So that's one of the reasons you'll hear us focusing and we've been focusing now for over 5 years on a raw material strategy.
We saw these issues you're bringing up today 5 6 7 years ago and began preparing for them.
And we're well down that road in being ready for that situation you're alluding to.
So yes I recognize all of your points and I see them as positives for our company.
Research Division</strong> No the game changer on thin slab got you into a totally new market that was basically double the size of your market going from long products to long and flat.
The DRI I understand the logic.
I wouldn't call it a game changer for DRI because I'd call it more of a defensive strategy because you're getting most of your pure scrap substitute pig iron from Brazil that was basically tearing down the rainforests to use charcoal and that's not a sustainable source.
That's why you're putting the DRI in.
So that to me is kind of a breakthrough.
It helps you tremendously but it's not as big of a breakthrough as thin slab was in my opinion.
Michael it is a bigger -- it has a bigger potential impact than thin slab particularly with the way things went in thin slab because it has an impact in every ton of steel we produce.
From the standpoint of growing our volumes of steel production by another 100% that's not the issue here in terms of what John's comments are about a game changer.
This is a game changer from the standpoint of the cost structure of the company which applies across all of our current 25 million tons more so for the flat-rolled and the higher quality side.
But the cost structures we're looking at for producing DRI would be natural gas game-changing event on the energy side which is a separate issue allow us to be in a position to have very very strong competitive position on costs relative to everybody else out there today.
So it's much more.
It has nothing to do with replacing charcoal in Brazil.
It has nothing to do at this point in time now with replacing pig iron because we certainly could build a blast furnace.
We've got the permit for it we have the money for it.
The additional game-changing event is the combination of the natural gas which is going to be available for decades at very low pricing both because of market conditions and because of what we've done on our own on the drilling side of things; and the use of those raw materials in an environment of rising raw materials where we have more control over the process.
It never was -- had anything to do with charcoal in Brazil.
I don't know where you're getting that from.
So this is -- you're looking at this whole DRI thing totally the wrong way and it is indeed a game changer because just by the sake of argument if it saves us $50 a ton at 25 million tons you can do the math.
Jim do you have something you want to say? Yes.
I wanted to note Michael that the DRI facilities are not cost centers.
They're profit centers.
And they have the ability and they are today historically achieving profits per ton in the same range as what steel mills can in a strong market that will be even more expanded.
In the summer of 2008 our Trinidad DRI facility was making extremely strong margins because of how high the alternative fine scrap and pig iron purchase options work.
So they are the profit centers they make a big return in strong markets.
Research Division</strong> Well that was my point that the traditional Brazilian source pig iron is going to get more and more expensive because it's not a sustainable supply.
They rip down the rainforest.
Well listen on that point on its own Michael you're absolutely right on.
But as it relates to what we're doing and why we're doing it would be other sources of pig iron out there.
We buy a lot of pig iron from all over the world not just from the rainforests of Brazil.
And our issue with respect to pig iron was not that it wasn't going to be available or be available at some globally competitive pricing it's that the lead times required to buy pig iron from around the world strips the supply chain out 6 months and we got caught in 2009 with a massive amount of pig iron purchased which would have been fine under normal operating conditions.
But in a 30% to 50% operating environment it was a 3-year supply or more.
We wanted to shorten that supply chain up on the raw materials side so like we have with scrap we have more control over it and we don't have to get into those kind of extended inventories and supply chains and commitments.
And our original plan was to build a pig iron facility in Louisiana and that changed because of the natural gas situation and our experience at using high-quality DRI will ramp up the produce in Trinidad.
So we really need to look at this whole integration back into the direct reduced iron business as a game changer for Nucor.
Just as -- I know we need to move on because there's other questions but keep in mind that Nucor's success over the years has been based upon a number of things.
One of them is the combination of low cost plenty available energy low-cost plenty available raw materials and a very unique culture and how that was applied to technologies that other people weren't in a position to take advantage of or weren't willing to take the risk on.
And over time everything but the culture has lost some of its cost competitiveness.
Now we're in a situation where we have an opportunity to strengthen both the raw material side in terms of costs day in and day out year after year and also on the energy side with the natural gas situation.
And the direct reduced iron developments that we are putting forward here and moving forward will take advantage of both of those things and help us to reestablish a stronger competitive position against most of our competitors not just here in the United States but globally.
Okay.
We'll move next to the site of Brian Yu with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dan when you look at the hot-rolled coil market where prices popped out at $740 back in February and $600 just a couple of weeks back.
Was there at some point in that slide where some of the marginal importers into the U.S.
drop off the picture and it was just more competition amongst the domestic mills that was driving prices further down? And I ask that because utilization rates have come up scrap prices are down yet there was some rebound in hot band and I'm just wondering where could we see the market settle out assuming where it doesn't start to track imports again? Well there were so many imports that came in that got into people's inventories got into the -- sitting in warehouses at the ports.
I mean there was a huge huge influx of imports including flat-rolled.
It got to the point where people who were working at selling flat-rolled into our market it's $520 a ton for goodness sakes out of Russia.
And we've taken some actions to stop that and we have.
But all of that was having an impact on moving pricing down.
At the same time as the pricing started to go down because of the flood of imports not because of the situation with oversupply from domestic producers here with new capacity that came on at the worst possible time that pricing dropped down to the $600 level that you're referring to started to cause people to have second thoughts not only about bringing steel in but also about continuing to run their operations the way there were.
Obviously RG shut down.
Obviously ThyssenKrupp proved their point that they could get the mill to produce and then they put it up for sale.
And so all of those things have worked to modify the supply side in a fairly steady demand environment and that's why you see the opportunity for some slight moves in pricing right now.
Whether they hold or not remains to be seen.
Where they go to re-attract imports? The imports got so low in pricing that they were way below where it make any sense that they were selling stuff to make a profit and were dumping the product.
So it's hard to tell exactly how they will behave going forward.
The fact that there's been some moderation on the domestic side is supporting and we'll just have to see what happens with the imports.
There's no doubt the world has slowed down.
China has slowed down and they're still adding capacity they're still trying to export around the world.
None of that bodes well for any really strong moves in pricing.
But hopefully we'll see some things that allow us to get off the bottom.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I didn't think there would be a simple answer.
Okay.
The next one is just sort of your background on the DRI project are there any notable differences between what you're building in Louisiana versus what you're operating now in Trinidad? I'm just trying to get a sense as we get closer to startup next year are there certain aspects of it that you have your guys say keep an eye on this particular part of the process because it could cause some issues that you may need to debottleneck and work through? Not really.
The kind of things that we're looking at with respect to this project versus Trinidad are all positives.
The shorter supply chain having it in the U.S.
and under our control here on the river system which gives us a lot of flexibility of how to move it the technology that we're employing will allow us to operate at a much lower cost per ton of DRI produced and with much less emissions.
So even though our plant in Trinidad is world class the opportunity here for the use of this technology that's not the same technology as in Trinidad to improve our operating costs are significant.
John? The only thing I would say is it is larger than our facility in Trinidad so I don't see that as a negative but it is something that we will keep an eye on.
And you asked if there's anything we'll be focusing on that definitely will be larger so we want to make sure that we understand the impact of the scale change.
And Brian one other point is the facility in Trinidad was used.
It had been idle for a while and there were problems with it that we fixed initially.
And then we stumbled on new problems as we operated it.
And so there's going to be a lower risk of those kind of interruptions.
Remember we had to do the former crude replacement I think a year or so ago.
So it's going to be better that we're operating it from day 1 and taking care of it from day 1 versus buying something that was idled and operated probably not as well as we would take care of something.
Maybe one other point Brian.
This is Ladd Hall.
This is not new technology.
It's a proven technology and used around the world so it's not like we're breaking a new technology.
Something tried-and-true and we know that it will work.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
What would be the expected ramp-up [indiscernible] 2.5 million tons? The ramp-up time is that what you asked? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Pretty quick like months.
And that's what we experienced in Trinidad quite honestly.
You got the full capacity with all the issues of having used equipment fairly quickly.
Our last question comes from the site of Rich Garchitorena.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just wanted to touch back on Skyline and I know it's a great opportunity given your relationship there.
But just wondering if there's anything that you're into your strategy going forward looking at the fact that you're continuing to build your downstream.
Do you see distribution as maybe a bigger piece of the business going forward longer term? Yes this should not be construed at all as an indication of our movements in distribution of all steel products flat-rolled products or what have you.
This is a very unique company with a very unique product mix that lends itself to some market leadership positions that have been tied to us from day 1.
So it's not -- nobody should take it as oh this is another example of how Nucor's going to end up buying service centers and things of that nature.
That's not the game plan.
John? I think I will just add you use the word service center.
It's clearly not a service center.
It's a distributor and that's the significant difference.
A very highly specialized products that aren't normally distributed around the countries through the normal distribution chain.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's what I thought.
I just wanted to clarify.
My last question I just noticed that conversion costs in Q2 were slightly higher than Q1.
Was there anything specific driving that? And how should we think about it for Q3? John? Repeat that question for me please.
First off utilization rate is lower.
That always drives up costs.
He's asking about why our conversion costs were higher in second quarter than first quarter.
The utilization rate was down that was a factor.
We saw -- as you know we saw scraps start to move down towards the second part of the quarter.
There's a lag time on that also.
The only thing I would add is plate had the smallest reduction in sales tons shipped and so that's one of our more value-added products that we manufacture.
So that probably ends up weighting the average cost up somewhat as well.
Okay I'll now turn the call back over to Mr.
DiMicco for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
Again I'd like to thank all of our teammates around the company for your efforts on working safely and helping us continue to be profitable in a very very difficult environment.
There's things that we have that are in our control.
Our goal is to operate in those arenas as efficiently as effectively and as safely as possible.
There are some things that are outside our control but are areas that we can have an influence on and our goal there is to have the maximum influence as possible.
And there are things that are outside of our control and our goal there is to live with that and focus on the other 2.
You've been doing a great job of that and I want to thank you.
And also thanks to all the other parties listening.
The questions were excellent and thank you to our shareholders for your continued support and we will continue to reward you over time with strong returns that we've had all throughout the history of the company.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Third Quarter of 2012 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's websites.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan DiMicco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
This is Dan DiMicco Nucor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: our President and Chief Operating Officer John Ferriola; Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey over our Long Products and Bar Products; Keith Grass over our David J.
Joseph and Scrap Operations; Ladd Hall over our Flat-rolled businesses; Ham Lott over our Downstream and Fabrication businesses; and Joe Stratman who is responsible for our Beam and Plate businesses as well as our business development group.
First and most importantly as always we like to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for your hard work in today's extremely challenging economic and steel market conditions.
We are extremely proud of your unrivaled commitment to taking care of our customers.
Every day you are building a stronger and more profitable Nucor and as always you are doing it by working safely and by working together.
You are Nucor's greatest asset and our real competitive advantage the right people.
Thank you all very much.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to discuss our third quarter results and financial position.
Following Jim John Ferriola will report our Nucor's operations and growth strategy.
And then I will wrap up with some thoughts.
Jim? Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
Third quarter 2012 earnings of $0.35 per diluted share were at the high end of our guidance range of $0.30 to $0.35 per diluted share.
Third quarter results were negatively impacted by 2 noncash charges totaling $0.10 per diluted share.
$0.06 per diluted share resulted from inventory-related purchase accounting adjustments associated with our acquisition of Skyline Steel which we acquired at the end of the second quarter.
We expect those charges to be much lower in the fourth quarter.
We also recorded a noncash charge of $0.04 per share resulting from a loss on the sale of assets of Nucor Wire Products Pennsylvania.
A quick comment about our tax rate since it can be confusing due to the impact of profits from noncontrolling interests.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners the third quarter of 2012 effective tax rate was 35.9%.
Overall market conditions softened further in the third quarter.
In addition to slowing economic growth both domestically and globally steel imports into the U.S.
have increased significantly in both 2011 and again in 2012.
The sheet market has been further pressured by new domestic capacity that began ramping up in 2011.
For Nucor these market conditions were evidenced by a 5% decline in production and a 3% decline in shipments at our steel mills from the second quarter.
Operating rates at our steel mills fell to 71% in the third quarter from second quarter's rate of 76%.
However challenging steel markets highlight the value of Nucor's business model particularly our highly variable cost structure and our diversified product portfolio.
Our profitability in the just-completed quarter was supported by relatively more stable results from our bar and beam mills when compared to the profit declines at our sheet and plate mills.
Additionally our downstream steel products business reported its second consecutive profitable quarter after being unprofitable for the preceding 13 quarters.
Another key strength of our business model is Nucor's ability to generate healthy cash flow through cyclical downturns.
In contrast to a 43% decline year-over-year in the first 9 months of 2012's net income cash generated from operations increased more than 60% over the same period to $1.1 billion.
Nucor benefits from a countercyclical cushion provided to our cash flow as lower scrap and steel prices reduced our working capital investment during downturns.
Nucor's consistent cash flow performance is also helped by our highly variable cost structure.
Balance sheet strength remains another important attribute of Nucor's business model.
Standard &amp; Poor's in its October 2 quarterly report entitled North American Metals and Mining Companies Strongest to Weakest again ranked Nucor #1 for credit rating and credit outlook among a universe of 62 companies.
Nucor was the only steel company in the group that S&amp;P awarded a strong business risk profile due to our competitive position and profit performance relative to our peers.
We are the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the extremely important competitive advantage of an investment grade credit rating.
The benefits of our credit rating include a lower cost of capital financial flexibility and our position as the lowest risk counterparty for both our customers and suppliers.
Our natural gas working interest investment to support Nucor's raw material strategy is an excellent example of how financial strength pays off for Nucor.
Cash short-term investments and restricted cash totaled $2.5 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2012.
That was an increase of $365 million from the second quarter of 2012.
This improved liquidity was driven by our strong operating cash performance during the third quarter.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and it does not mature until December 2016.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
At the end of the third quarter long-term debt totaled $4.3 billion.
In the fourth quarter our leverage is declining.
On October 1 we paid off maturing debt of $350 million and in December we will be paying off an additional $300 million in debt.
As a result of our strong cash flow performance we expect year-end 2012 cash short-term investments and restricted cash to exceed $1.5 billion.
We will maintain the strong liquidity position in a year when we invest almost $750 million in acquisitions invest an estimated $1 billion in capital expenditures and pay off $650 million in debt maturities.
That is a total of $2.4 billion in cash outflows in 2012 with most of it targeted on increasing our earnings power.
It is a long tradition of Nucor to grow stronger during downturns.
We're able to do this because of our financial strength and the long-term approach we take to managing our business.
Through the first 9 months of 2012 capital spending totaled $692 million.
The majority of the capital is going to a number of growth investments.
The largest project is our Louisiana direct reduced iron raw materials facility currently under construction.
There are many other projects being implemented throughout our upstream steelmaking and downstream businesses to develop new products increase quality and reduce costs.
Skyline Steel acquired in June for a cash purchase price of approximately $675 million is off to an excellent start as a member of the Nucor family.
This acquisition brings together Skyline the North American market leader in the distribution of steel piling products and Nucor-Yamato North America's leading producer of steel piling products.
The combination of these organization expands Nucor's opportunity for profitable growth in the steel piling business.
Skyline has been immediately accretive to Nucor's cash flow and is expected to be accretive to our earnings in the fourth quarter.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we expect to see a reduction in earnings exclusive of onetime charges from the third quarter level as a result of the ongoing trend the economic softness in the global economy.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
Dan? Thank you Jim.
I'll now ask John Ferriola to report on Nucor's operations and the implementation of our growth strategy.
John? Thanks Dan and good afternoon.
Let me begin by thanking all of our raw materials steelmaking and steel product teammates for your outstanding commitment to working safely and to taking care of Nucor's customers.
Thank you and please keep it going.
We are extremely excited about the impressive work being done by our raw materials steelmaking and downstream product teams during these bad times to prepare Nucor for the good times ahead.
Here are some third quarter highlights from a few of the projects currently underway to grow Nucor's long-term earnings power.
Our Hertford County North Carolina plate mill team successfully brought their new vacuum tank degasser online during the third quarter.
New grades requiring degassing are now being trialed and made available to our plate customers on a regular basis.
Coming next to Hertford County will be a new normalizing line that is scheduled to start up by the middle of next year.
These value-added investments build on the outstanding success of the mill's heat treat line that began operations last year.
In the third quarter the heat treat line again delivered record shipments and our heat-treated plate products have largely avoided the severe pricing pressure of commodity grade imports.
Nucor's sheet mills also continued to move up the value-added chain.
Our Hickman Arkansas team will start up a new vacuum tank degasser within the next 3 weeks.
The degassing will allow Hickman to participate in the higher value-added OCTG products market along with opening new opportunities in Mexico.
Our Decatur Alabama team continues to run very successful trials in the automotive market using their world-class galvanizing line to produce parts for several of the new domestic auto producers.
Our Berkeley County South Carolina team is moving ahead with their new wide and light project.
It will allow Berkeley to produce up to 72-inch wide material and light gauge down to 0.042 inches.
Equipment orders have been placed and construction is underway.
We expect this project will be up and running in late 2013.
In the third quarter our David J.
Joseph team began operating 2 new nonferrous metals sortation facilities 1 in Florida and the other is located in Kentucky.
These investments allow DJJ to maximize the profitability it realizes from its recycling of obsolete scrap.
Another noteworthy DJJ third quarter achievement was the recognition of our Salt Lake City Utah recycling facility by OSHA's SHARP program.
The Safety and Health Achievement Recognition program or SHARP program for short represents the gold standard for safety excellence and recognizes companies that voluntarily go to the extra mile to meet rigorous safety standards.
Our team at Nucor Steel Louisiana made excellent progress during the third quarter on the construction of our new DRI plant in St.
James Parish.
Their can-do attitude and high energy level allowed them to overcome significant challenges arising from this summer's record low level of the Mississippi River.
Two major milestones reached this quarter were the placement of the DRI vessel on the structural module that supports it and the erection of the iron ore storage domes.
Most importantly we are in schedule for a mid-2013 startup of DRI production.
Our Louisiana DRI project is a huge step forward implementing Nucor's raw materials strategy.
Combining Louisiana's annual capacity of 2.5 million tons with our Trinidad plant's 2 million tons of annual capacity brings us to about 2/3 of our goal to control from 6 million to 7 million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes.
Successful execution of our raw materials strategy our DRI production capability PED with our long-term and low-cost supply of natural gas is a game changer for the cost structure of Nucor's Steelmaking Operations.
It does more than just support our growth in the higher-value added and higher-margin sheet in SBQ markets.
Our investments in DRI production capacity and in natural gas assets will provide Nucor significant competitive cost advantages for raw materials and energy.
The raw materials strategy is also a game changer by shortening our supply chain for high-quality iron units.
The Nucor team is in a position of strength to build on our company's proven ability to be effective stewards of our shareholders' valuable capital.
As always our success will be driven by the adaptability and sustainability of Nucor's business model.
In everything we do our focus remains on long-term sustainable growth and Nucor's profitability.
We are continuing Nucor's historical and highly successful strategy of preparing for the good times during the bad times.
Working together our team is building an exciting and very rewarding future for all members of the Nucor family our shareholders our customers and our teammates.
Thank you.
Dan? Thank you John.
The biggest near-term challenge facing Nucor and the entire U.S.
steel industry is the current flood of steel imports into our country.
Based on U.S.
Census Bureau data steel imports are on a pace to reach 27.7 million short tons for full year 2012.
This represents an increase of more than 20% from 2011 imports of 22.8 million tons and more than 40% from 2010 imports of 19.3 million tons.
Such increases are totally inconsistent with a domestic economy that is barely growing as well as a U.S.
steel industry capacity utilization rate mired in the range of 70%.
Not only are we concerned about dumped and subsidized steel and steel products.
We're taking action to protect our interest by asking our government to enforce rules-based free trade.
A number of sunset reviews are pending or about to be initiated by the U.S.
International Trade Commission.
These include cases on galvanized steel sheet rebar and hot-rolled sheets for a variety of countries.
Maintaining these orders is critical to maintaining free and fair trade in the U.S.
market.
And it's highly likely that new trade cases will soon be filed.
The Nucor culture will always be proactive and aggressive in addressing all risks to our business.
For that same reason our team continues to take a leadership role in advocating real solutions to our nation's economic challenges.
Our view of the situation is unchanged.
The time is right and long overdue to reinvigorate the American economy by seizing new and exciting opportunities.
They include capitalizing on our nation's vast energy resources growing a globally competitive U.S.
manufacturing sector ready to prosper on a truly level playing field and rebuilding our decaying infrastructure.
Long term we are bullish in the profitable growth opportunities for the American economy and Nucor.
That is why we're working hard to build a stronger Nucor.
A stronger Nucor is one positioned to deliver higher highs and higher lows in earnings power to successive economic cycles.
Our disciplined execution of our multipronged growth strategy has invested nearly $7 billion of our shareholders' valuable capital since the last cyclical peak in 2008.
Those investments have dramatically increased our company's long-term earnings power.
That is why our confidence has never been greater that Nucor's best years are ahead of us.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor and we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michelle Applebaum with Steel Market Intelligence.
I wanted to also applaud you for taking the time in your release and in your script to talk about the issue of imports to put that front center because you've got over $1 billion of projects that we could spend 90 minutes on.
But this is an industry problem that is just plaguing everywhere you look.
There's no place to hide.
I wanted to address how that can be fixed because in my 30 years I've only seen one time where action really made a huge difference and that was the Reagan era VRAs back in the '80s.
Is there a solution like that? And is there a real trade solution here? The trade solutions that we have available to us have numerous facets and I've mentioned several of them in my script.
In addition to that we are exploring some very new and unique ways to deal with these trade issues that I will not go into on this call.
But rest assured that our trade of users [ph] have been hard at work to come up with new ways to deal with the abuse of our markets by trading companies and by foreign steel companies and countries particularly state-owned enterprises.
And we will continue to be very active on these issues along with the entire industry and many in our domestic manufacturing customer base.
So just stay tuned and over the next 6 to 9 months will be a number of things that will be obvious to people about the directions we're taking to deal with these issues.
I would also suggest that VRAs are probably not the only time when we had a strong action on the part of our government to deal with a massive flood that occurred during these 2000 to 2003 time period.
And there are opportunities for us to deal with this today with tools that are in toolbox and tools that will be added to the toolbox.
In addition to that we are working with our government to find more proactive ways to stop this before it becomes damaging.
And that's enough said on that subject.
Can I ask another question? Well certainly.
Okay I -- there's been a kind of overwhelming number of price increases for sheet this week and there hasn't been anything since July.
And I was just wondering if you could give us some color on what's prompting that.
Well as you know we don't really get into discussing the pricing situation particularly on a short-term basis.
And I'll leave John the opportunity to make some comments.
John? In general terms Michelle when you look at sheet first of all the market was oversold.
Pricing had reached unsustainably low levels.
Also when you look at the inventory throughout the supply chain the inventory's low throughout the entire supply chain on sheet.
Imports are down a little bit and we're reaching a point where customers are beginning to place their first quarter business.
So we've seen an improvement in our backlog in our order entry rate.
Right now our lead times are out just about to December.
So all of those factors played into making an announcement on sheet increases.
Our next question comes from Shneur Gershuni with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question I guess sort of following on the importing just slightly.
Your prepared remarks as well as in the press release earlier it sort of called out imports and new domestic supply as kind of a headwind.
But generally speaking we've seen imports starting to trail off a little bit.
We've had a big bankruptcy in the space as well too.
Do you believe that that's enough to sort of readjust the supply-demand balance? Or do you need to see a little bit more capacity come out as well too? I was just trying to understand sort of where you're thinking things are going from that perspective.
First thing we need is a recognition in Washington that the best way to get out of this mess that we're in whether it be jobs or deficit spending is to get increased revenues coming in from a stronger economy and that will drive increased demand in steel sectors.
Having said that imports are not falling off significantly enough to have a major impact.
We've got -- as I've mentioned in the prepared remarks it's coming at an annualized rate of almost 28 million tons.
That's ridiculous considering how much tonnage is actually being produced by the domestic producers that are operating in the low 70 utilization rates.
So there's much more that needs to be dealt with there and they will be dealt with.
And in many cases the penalties will be retroactive.
And so as far as the domestic production and the shuddering at the present time with the RG assets that's obviously a positive thing for the supply-demand balance and it helps cushion the negative impact of the poor economy and the flood of imports that have come in.
And as far as the new startups go they're in a desperate situation.
They're bankrupt.
They're selling their assets and they're behaving that way in the marketplace.
Sooner they're sold the better.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up question if I may.
While iron ore prices have bounced in the last couple of weeks they're certainly off from where they were.
Given what's -- given your focus on DRI and so forth has there been any thought or consideration to kind of some vertical integration as to maybe picking up some assets in that respect to sort of vertically integrate your operation at all? We are thinking about a whole host of things all the time exploring all different opportunities.
And if we make a move in that space it will be because the opportunity says it's the right price and the right time to do it.
But we are constantly exploring opportunities throughout the downstream through the upstream space literarily on a daily basis.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one last question.
There's a competitor of yours out there talking about SBQ weakness and so forth.
Is this something that you're seeing as well too? Is it unique to them? Or I was wondering if you have some color on that market.
There certainly has been some slowing in some of the markets of SBQ.
In other areas it's still significant strength.
Automotive would be one example of that and though heavy trucks are off a little bit from the peak where they were a few months ago still fairly strong.
So some SBQ markets have weakened for sure but then there's others that we're very active in that have remained strong.
In general the larger sections in the SBQ marketplace have been hit the hardest and certainly some competitors are more impacted by that than others.
Research Division</strong> So this won't necessarily impact the expansion of the Memphis [indiscernible] ...
No no.
We're -- what we're doing with our SBQ expansions in Memphis and at 2 of our other mills that focus on SBQ is based upon how we see the future.
If it was based upon how we saw it today we would probably stop them all.
But we are very confident that we're going to see an influx of manufacturing coming back to this country for a host of reasons in sectors that are strong consumers of SBQ-type products and in the energy area as well.
John? The other thing I would add Dan is that when you look at the investments we are making in SBQ they're investments that get us into new products new geographical territories new applications with new customers.
So even if the market remains a little stagnant we have opportunities to grow in those areas.
Next we have Sohail Tharani from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dan you are going to start the DRI mid-2013 so it means that you will not start looking for buying iron ore a few months before that.
I was wondering if anything you've thought about was it because there's some new capacity coming in in the Minnesota region in the U.S.
Also the pellets would that be a good alternative? Or do you think you -- think that Brazil is the best source for you to bring pellets into the plan? Currently we buy pellets from 3 different pellet producers.
Two are in Brazil.
One is in Canada.
The startup and the continued operation of Louisiana's first DRI plant will be supplied by those same suppliers and probably in similar percentages to what they do today for us.
And we have been and are currently exploring other supply sources.
And we will be successful in bringing out some additional supply sources from other parts of the world.
Research Division</strong> And continuing on that remember you had mentioned that there's an opportunity to actually get to the resource and buy the resource or acquire the resource of iron ore.
That would also be an option.
But with the iron ore prices now weakening do think that option's still on the table? I think that the options become less expensive that are on the table and that may exist for some period of time.
And so again we will be opportunistic.
If we can get something that looks like it'll be a good long-term add to our raw materials strategy we will take serious look at it.
And you'll hear about it when it happens if it happens.
The opportunities -- We believe there'll be more opportunities for that going forward that will happen [ph].
We have next Luke Folta with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question I think I read recently that Moody's had put Nucor on review for potential downgrade on the credit rating and Jim talked about how important that is to you guys.
I just kind of want to hear your thoughts on what you thought about that number one and then also if that factors into your view on how you look at spending opportunities over the next term here.
I'll let Mr.
Frias to take a shot at that one.
Jim? Yes we are several levels above investment grade.
The bottom investment grade is a BBB- and we're right now on middle A so we're like 5 brackets above the bottom.
And we may end up with a split rating if Moody's does in fact downgrade us to a low single A.
We will still have an A rating that's split.
So we don't like the idea that it could happen but it's a real possibility.
We've always been committed to maintaining a strong credit rating and we will remain committed to maintaining a strong credit rating.
And there's a lot of different ways to achieve growth investments that don't always require issuing significant amounts of debt.
So as opportunities come we'll evaluate them from a number of different perspectives.
In addition I would add to the comments that Jim made in his presentation his prepared remarks that the countercyclical cash generation that we benefit from is actually adding to our stronger cash position at the end of the year people might be forecasting.
So that only serves to help us in regard to issues like you're talking about.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And then I guess just secondly I think you guys probably have as much insight into non-residential construction as any other company in the U.S.
And I just wanted to understand your thoughts on -- typically we see -- the rule of thumb is basically that once housing starts to recover you get a lag 12 to 18 months or whatever it is recovery in commercial construction.
And I just wanted to get a sense on how you -- is there anything different that you see in this cycle that would result in that not happening? Well first off people all like to focus on the positive when possible.
I mean when we see a nice uptick in the housing side of things it tends be portrayed as good news which it is.
But relatively speaking we're still at dismal levels overall.
And so I think that this will -- it's something that is going to take longer to have a positive impact on the commercial construction than would have been normally the case coming out of recessions where housing had suffered.
I have no idea exactly the timeline on that but the way things are going in Washington with the lack of action on the economy the dismal performance of the economy and job creation the threats to the business community and the private sector there's -- things are going to happen slower as long as that's the case.
And hopefully that won't be the case for a whole lot longer.
Whoever wins the presidency hopefully they will do the right things to stimulate this economy and create job creation.
And so we still see the nonresidential which commercial would be a component struggling.
While our downstream businesses have been profitable now for 2 quarters in a row as Jim mentioned it's still a very weak environment out there.
And we've got -- under the current set of circumstances we've got a couple of years yet to deal with before we start to see strong non-residential construction market.
Hopefully we can -- we will be able to change that.
I know we can change it if we do the right things.
It remains to be seen if we will or not as a country.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I ask one more quick one? Sure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on Skyline are the shipments that are going through Skyline showing up in your reported sales tons in your supplemental data? And also when the segment data is reported is that going to be in the downstream segment? It will be in the steel segment.
It is included in the tons right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it -- can you tell me which category? It will be in the structural.
Our next question is from Dave Martin with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim and Dan as you pointed out you had a very good cash flow and cash quarter in the last couple of months and some of this was due to asset investment sales.
But I'm just kind of curious as to whether any of this may reverse in the fourth quarter if there's anything unusual.
David I would say very little of it had to do with the asset sales.
The proceeds from the sale of wire products were in the tens of millions of dollars in fact less than 20 I think as I recall.
And so that really wasn't a factor.
In fact if the pricing trends that we've kind of seen in the pipe for steel was weaker in the second half the third quarter than it was in the first half so we're starting off with a low pricing position I would say the more likelihood is that we'll get another benefit in the fourth quarter from working capital.
And so no this isn't a onetime thing that's going to reverse direction.
It's likely to get another little bit of pop of cash burst in the fourth quarter as well.
Maybe not as big as third quarter but still something there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly just had a quick question on structural pricing which was up in the quarter versus second which looks a little odd.
But was that -- is that just a function of Skyline? Yes.
Yes.
Our next question is from Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> John was going through in detail with the projects and I kind of caught the part about auto and wanted to probe a little bit more.
Given the additional investments you've been making there and the time frame for starting up late 2013 so I mean it's been a parable at least in the steel industry that the mini mills could never make auto-quality exposed sheet.
Can you tell us if you're attempting to break down that expectation and what your plans are there? Before John gives you details on your question I will just repeat one phrase that I've always thought of as being very important: Never say never.
If people haven't learned that after the last 30-plus years of mini mills in the steel business then they have not been awake or alive until very recently.
Never say never.
John? And I will tell you with a great deal of confidence we will be able to achieve that at some point.
I go back to the history of mini mill steelmaking and I remember when people told us we couldn't make garbage-can-quality steel.
Look at the things that we're doing today in every aspect of our business.
So the investments that we're making the world-class galvanizing line other investments the wide and light project that we're working on the degassers that we are adding virtually in every one of our mini mills focus on moving up the value chain in our SBQ business clearly we are focused on automotive and we have a great deal of confidence that we will be able to make all of the steels that are used in automotive at some point.
Research Division</strong> So not a timeline...
Excuse me Timna.
I think on one previous call John talked about a product that we made for Nissan was it and satisfied the most demanding hood quality requirements for exposed hoods.
Yes we are -- I will say this Timna.
We have done trials in -- with many different new domestic and domestic auto producers on a wide range of automotive steel okay.
And what Dan is referring to is a particular application which is without a doubt the most difficult application in terms of surface quality.
And we did extremely well in that trial.
Research Division</strong> So at some point in the next couple of years when we list who's suppliers to the main auto companies we'll expect to see Nucor up there on the top? I would be disappointed if it was measured in years.
Research Division</strong> Months? Okay got it.
All right.
So then my other question is for Jim.
I think I'm understanding the LIFO.
But just with the extent of the swing this last couple of quarters can you help us understand the assumptions behind the change to credit from earlier this year? Yes if you think about what's happened during the year in the first quarter we were experiencing a somewhat inflationary look forward and so we were recording LIFO expenses expecting the cost of scrap to be higher by the end of the year.
That moderated in the second quarter so we reversed our accrual and went to a neutral position.
And now in the third quarter it's clear that scrap prices are going to be lower than they started the year at.
And overall raw materials costs -- because scrap is not the only thing that goes in the LIFO calculation.
It just tends to be the biggest driver.
So having said that we recorded 3 quarters of what we expect to book for the year at the end of September.
And so you'll see a smaller charge or credit in the fourth quarter if things stay the way we foresee them.
So we booked I think $84 million this quarter.
We'll book 1/3 of that in the fourth quarter if things stay the way we see them right now.
And our next question comes from Arun Viswanathan from Longbow Research.
Just had a couple of quick questions.
So I guess can you just tell me what you guys are you seeing in scrap right now? There's been I guess speculation that things appear to be bottoming.
What are you seeing on both domestic and export side for scrap? Before I turn it over to Mr.
Ferriola the only comment I would make about the term bottoming is it seems like we had several bottoms throughout a 12-month period in the course of the year and you seem to hear talk about another "bottom." At the end of the day the demand in the marketplace will establish where scrap goes and right now demand is still pretty weak.
But John you had  some...
The only thing that I would add to that Dan I think you said it really well.
Predicting where scrap is going is always somewhat of a challenge.
But there has always been a correlation to iron ore pricing.
When you look at iron ore pricing it's at lows over the last couple of years.
Well it did have a small period where it spiked up I'd say spiked by a few dollars and it's on its way back down.
So it's -- I don't want to say that it's at a bottom either.
I think it's going to -- I think the best way to say it is that at the end of the day the market will determine what the price of scrap is.
And it will be a function of volumes production levels utilization levels and what's happening in other raw materials such as iron.
It's also impacted by what the rest of the world is doing and there has been a general slowing.
But that can change and so it's probably more difficult to forecast today than -- and over the last couple of years than it ever has been.
So we'll just leave it at that.
That's why we're asking you guys because you guys are right there in the thick of it right? We're the experts all right.
All right.
Just another question I guess on DRI.
You expect start up in mid-'13 of the first plant.
I mean are you still planning for further capacity increases? And then I think you've discussed the economics previously on a previous call.
Can you just help me try to think about how much you will save by these 2 projects? The answer to your first question is yes.
We are still on track to move the second DRI facility shortly after starting up the first if I understood your question properly.
And is there a timeline for that? When we start up the one that we are projecting for midyear and we see that some of the different technologies not necessarily new technologies but different ones than we were used to working with prove to be as effective as we've been told we will begin immediately.
The second part of your question you talked about the economics of making the DRI.
We have an investor presentation that's available on our website where there's a slide that gives a side-by-side comparison of our DRI making cost at $100 iron ore costs compared to best in class in the world blast furnace with every recovery possibility that exists.
And you can see that side by side.
And that shows the benefit of what I view at the bottom of a market.
And the real benefit -- so it's very cost-competitive with an advantage at the bottom of the market.
And at peak market we'll be a cost-based producer of iron and iron ore may go up to say 180 like it did the last economic peak.
Whereas pig iron went to $1 000 a ton and that's where we will have our real savings.
Our next question comes from Richard Garchitorena from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is in the press release you mentioned excess domestic sheet supply is an issue impacting the market.
Obviously RG Steel is offline.
Utilization rates are at 70%.
So where do you think utilization need to be or is this more a function of where demand is right now? Well it's a function of overall where demand is.
But you have 27 million 28 million tons of imports coming in it undermines even the supply demand situation from an economic standpoint.
So it's a combination of those plus we have as I probably stated before plants built that never should have been built as witnessed by the fact that now they're being basically sold off and should never have been rejuvenated for the umpteenth time and are being sold off again without any strategic players stepping forward.
So whether it be new stuff that was brought in much to the chagrin of some of the major steel player in the world that's not worked out well.
It has impacted the entire industry.
And so that's the kind of situation we're in.
Even in a good market "good market" with the imports rate at these kind of levels there would be a supply demand imbalance.
And -- but certainly some of the things that are taking place at RG and elsewhere will have a moderating effect.
But right now the demand is -- and the import flows don't allow for it to show up in higher utilization rates which need to be north of 80%.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my other question noticed a bit of an uptick in the conversion cost this quarter.
Can you give us some color as to what drives that? And is Skyline Steel part of that and then how should we think about that going forward? The main issue that drives it is if you take a look at the utilization rates and the production numbers this quarter prior to the previous quarter you'll see that it's throughput-related and tons-related.
John anything else? It's volume.
Volume is the driver.
Our next question comes from Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I thought I'd ask you a question on OCTG since you're a pretty big supplier of feedstock there.
We've been hearing a lot about an inventory overhang as some people may have overbought assuming the rig count would just continuously go up through the course of the year and it flattened out.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on where you see that market headed what are we in for as far as destocking when you think that could stabilize.
Well I appreciate the fact that you highlighted that some people overbought.
I think the bigger problem with the OCTG supply side has been the amount of tons have been shoved into this market from overseas again when the market wasn't there for it.
It wasn't a question of people having greater expectations as much as it was stuff being dumped into our market which will be addressed shortly.
John you want to add to that? No that's it.
There is certainly a concern about the overall inventories.
It is a result of the imports and all the buying of those imports.
And the docks that are under siege these days and sagging from the weight of imports sitting on top of them that have not been sold.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I mean I guess at the risk of kind of beating a dead horse.
On some of these trade case it seems like the real issue here is not that -- it's pretty obvious that there's dumping going on but we have to prove damages as well.
And I mean how do you think about it? It seems like OCTG might be a right product as far as the case goes.
We've been hearing more and more about that in the news flow.
But what do we need to see on the damages front before some of these things can actually start going forward? Damages are occurring.
It's a matter of a timing issue and there's time that needs to -- you need to have passed by where those damages are and the case is put together.
And those are -- will roll along the way as an industry on a number of those fronts right now.
And our next question comes from David Galison with CIBC World Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch on the automotive again.
We've talked in the past about efforts to increase automotive market share.
We've seen some good success in this area.
I was just wondering do you have a target level that you're looking for that you're working towards for the automotive market.
Do we have a target level for the automotive market? Well 100% would be nice okay? Research Division</strong> I mean as a percentage of Nucor's business.
As a percentage of Nucor's business? Somewhere in the neighborhood of 15% to 20% would be a good number for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just if you could touch on your operating rates in the quarter.
It looked like there was a possibility to get a bit of an uptick in Q3 with some of the downtime expected.
But operating rates actually sort of trailed the industry.
Just wondering if you could provide some color there.
Well actually if you look at our operating rate as it was recorded it's 71%.
When you look at the industry numbers the most recent AISI number was just over 71% 71.2% something in that neighborhood.
And what you have to look at there David is there's a little bit of a trailing effect on the industry-recorded numbers because of the way that they are calculated.
So we feel confident when you look at the history be it today's numbers for example we're right in the ballpark with the AISI numbers as we were last year.
The last year the full year the AISI number was about 74.4% we were just at 74% even.
So we feel comfortable that we're right there with them.
The problem with comparing any individual company's latest information with the number reported by AISI is it's complicated even for us to figure out but it has to do with what John said and that is that the reporting is not from the current time period in some of the numbers that are reported as current.
It may sound strange to you but that's the way it is because it's a reporting line and what have you.
It's the best estimate the industry can give at the time but it won't be as current as what any individual company can give you.
And that's why the best way to take a look at it is to look at it over a period and so you're not looking at any one particular week of numbers.
It doesn't give you an active picture.
Feel free to call AISI up and ask them their methodology.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Over the last 30 years or so we've seen many foreign steel companies coming in and buying assets or building assets in North America with just tremendous failures.
The specific one being the most recent and even as we speak there's an article out on The Financial Times saying Mittal is looking to sell part of their iron ore up in Canada now.
Do you think this is just the tip of the iceberg? Do you think you're going to see more opportunities more distressed opportunities in some of these assets? I think back in 2003 you picked up I think it was Tuscaloosa pretty cheap.
You think there's more coming? That's a tough call.
Certainly if things don't improve from where they're at there'll be more opportunities i.e.
failures in the marketplace.
And as you well know sometimes these things take a couple of reiterations of failure to go away.
But specifically I couldn't give you a really good feel for what the odds are of that happening.
You'd have to tell me where the economy is going to be in 6 to 9 months.
Principally to the flat rolled side that's probably the most impacted by the things that you're talking about in the marketplace with new mills being built and new players coming in from overseas.
Even though these companies haven't gone out of business yet they're not making a whole lot of money on new plants they've built.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
You've mentioned there's a bit [ph] of this down in Alabama.
What exactly do you see in that property? I think at this point in time all of the people that have been mentioned if they are indeed looking including us are doing it because it's nonbinding whatever they're [indiscernible] ...
Research Division</strong> It's a free look.
At this point in time and at the very least people would want to know "Okay what am I going to be up against in the future because this is a new asset?" It didn't need to be built.
Despite all the rhetoric it's never been built and it's not going to go away.
It will end up in somebody's hands.
So if you can get a free look-see of what's in there people are taking a free look-see.
But it will get sold don't get me wrong.
It's not worth anywhere near what they spent on it and -- but at the end of the day the market will determine what it gets sold for and who ends up with it.
But the main attraction to it is it's new it's there and it's not going to be cut up by anybody.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
For you would the most interesting parts be just the cold rolled and galvanized? No our interest would encompass the entire thing.
I don't mean the Brazilian assets.
We're talking specifically about the U.S.
assets.
Research Division</strong> So you'd have to work a traditional castor into that if you're going to do it? I don't want to give anything exactly what our plans would be if we actually ended up bidding and binding rounds and what have you.
There are a couple of alternatives for how you deal with the factors there's no melt shop there including building one at some point in time.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So basically you're saying that it's just a free look right now? I think everybody is safe they're taking a look at it in that respect.
Everybody that's looking at it is taking a look at it to see what they can make out of it.
When it gets to the point where it's binding that's when the rubber meets the road on people's interest.
Our next question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro with Macquarie.
I just had a couple of housekeeping questions and then one other one.
The housekeeping ones are just if you could update us on how many people you picked up when you bought Skyline and what the total employees are now.
And secondly if you had any startup costs in the quarter and what they may have been.
The Skyline teammates  that came on board are a lean mean 350 in total.
Dan it's a little higher than that.
It's a little higher than that? It's about 490 and pre-operating startup cost the trend Aldo was back...
There are people looking at me cross-eyed here.
It's somewhere between 350 and 490 Aldo.
We'll get our s*** together.
And in the second quarter our pre-operating startup costs were $19 million.
They actually slipped a little bit in the third quarter to $16 million and we're expecting next quarter to be around $19 million again.
All right great.
And then Dan this is not an import-related question.
It's a question of a little bit on politics.
If you were to go forward with the request for import protection and cases like that which political party you think gives you better support in that? It's a little confusing to me.
First off we're not going forward on import protection.
We're going forward on enforcement of the laws that these trading -- so-called trading partners agreed to have access to global markets including the markets here in the U.S.
both WTO-related and U.S.
trade law-related and favored nation trading status-related and so on and so on.
So we're not looking for protection.
We're looking for enforcement of the laws to stop cheaters from cheating.
That's number one.
Number two as far as the political parties go I'm not going to get into commenting about that.
I certainly like the strong tough language that Romney is putting out on China and stopping the cheaters.
As you well know our position on China is well known well documented and no running from that no desire to run from that.
We've had good success with support on trade cases in Washington in the Democratic resilience [ph] too although we've been disappointed there hasn't been stronger action on China which is the #1 trade issue facing this country not just the steel industry.
So at the end of the day it's who walks the talk as opposed to who just says the words.
Our next question comes from Mark Parr from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
The one area that I was curious if you could maybe give some color on would be every month you have to make a determination on scrap buy and those [ph] that would potentially be in a position to see how other mills would buy it.
I mean we've seen such a downdraft in scrap particularly in October.
Just wondering if you characterize the buying activity as about in line with what you would normally do or maybe it's a little heavier than usual.
Any color that you've got will be appreciated.
Our buying opportunity or the industry's buying? Research Division</strong> Just whatever you -- either way would be great.
I mean if you think the industry bought heavy in October because the price came down so much that would be interesting.
I know it would be but I wouldn't comment on either one.
No offense but that's not something we should comment on.
I think you just take a look at the pricing and it tells you what's going on.
If prices are dropping $40 to $50 a ton one month going up $40 to $50 a ton another month that pretty much gives you an idea how the industry is behaving particularly if you understand what's going on with the Turks and others in terms of exporting scrap out of our market.
So I don't really want to comment about exactly what we saw taking place and not taking place.
But I understand your question.
It's a good question.
Our next question is from Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question for Jim.
CapEx this year about $1 billion.
What are we looking at for next year preliminarily? We haven't put our budget together yet.
We'll have those budget meetings in November to set that but we expect it to be lower with the windup of the DRI facility.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any help you could give us on startup costs? I know you don't like to break those out necessarily anymore.
I think the next quarter -- I just talked about next quarter that's about as far out as we have a good view at.
We think might be in the neighborhood of $19 million next quarter with $16 million this quarter.
We'll start ramping up obviously next year as the DRI facility gets to full employment prior to them actually up -- being up and running.
So we'll start ticking up probably and the second quarter will be the heaviest quarter I would think.
Research Division</strong> Second quarter will be the heaviest on startup costs? Yes and we'll probably start disclosing it in our earnings release itself when it becomes a material number.
Not probably we will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should expect basically a ramp from this rate of startup into startup peaking in the second quarter next year? Yes sir.
It will probably be at a similar level in the third quarter and then it will fall off.
And our final question comes from Michelle Applebaum with Steel Market Intelligence.
Just a follow-up question and hopefully it's just a housekeeping question.
When you say that you expect earnings to be down exclusive of onetime items that's down from $0.45 is what you're assuming as the clean number? Michelle we specifically don't give quantitative guidance.
We're giving qualitative guidance.
And you do a good job with math.
We've talked about what LIFO was.
It was $0.84 -- $84 million $0.16.
It will be about 1/3 of that next quarter so you can make that adjustment.
You know the onetime startup costs are going to be not recurring.
There may be other ones but we don't know what those are or what those might be right now.
And then finally we are saying that steel mill profits will be lower.
So you can do the math from there.
We're not saying a specific number.
We're not saying a specific number but there is a...
I'm asking about the LIFO the $0.11.
Yes.
Well I answered the question on LIFO for an earlier caller.
We said $0.16 year-to-date.
It was booked all in the third quarter.
We're expecting to be in the neighborhood of $0.05 in the fourth quarter.
It could change depending on what happens to scrap prices this quarter but that's our current expectation.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to our speakers for any closing comments.
Thank you Camille.
And once again we'd just like to thank all our teammates our shareholders and our customers for your support our suppliers and also thank everybody listening for their interest in Nucor.
Thank you all very much.
Have a good day.
That does conclude our call for today.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Fourth Quarter and Year End of 2012 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties related to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on SEC's and Nucor's websites.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon.
This is John Ferriola Nucor's President and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior leadership team: Dan DiMicco Nucor's Executive Chairman; Jim Frias our Chief Financial Officer; and our other Executive Vice Presidents: Jim Darsey; Keith Grass; Ladd Hall; Ham Lott; and Joe Stratman.
First and most importantly we want to thank everyone on Nucor's Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for your hard work taking care of all of our customers in today's very challenging market conditions.
As always you are doing it by working safely working smart and working together.
In fact you achieved Nucor's best-ever safety performance in 2012.
Congratulations and thank you.
Please stay focused on our Beyond Zero safety goal.
Beyond Zero means we don't just target 0 injuries or illnesses but also 0 near-misses and 0 potential for any safety incident.
You are Nucor's greatest assets and our real competitive advantage the right people.
Thank you all.
Every day you are building a safer stronger and more profitable Nucor.
As we announced on November 16 I became Nucor's CEO at the start of this year.
Dan DiMicco remains a key member of our team serving as our Executive Chairman.
These moves reflect the planned thoughtful transition of leadership at Nucor.
Our company's robust executive succession planning process has been a priority of Dan's from the very beginning of his tenure as Nucor's CEO.
It will also be a priority of mine so that the next transition is as seamless as this transition.
Dan became Nucor's leader in September of 2000.
He served as our CEO longer than anyone since our founder Ken Iverson.
Under Dan's leadership Nucor delivered dramatic growth in profits and shareholder returns.
From September of 2000 through the year end of 2012 Nucor's total shareholder return growth of 720% was almost 4x greater than the total return of the S&amp;P Steel Group Index and was 28x greater than the S&amp;P 500's total return.
In addition to this impressive record of profitable growth Dan became an extremely effective champion for domestic manufacturing and rules-based rules-enforced free trade.
Most important of all Dan strengthened and grew Nucor's culture over a period that included 2 of the steel industry's worst downcycles.
I am excited honored and humbled to serve as Nucor's new CEO.
Dan's shoes are extremely big ones to fill.
Nevertheless I share Dan's conviction that Nucor's best days are ahead of us.
Our strength is our culture.
Nucor's culture is defined by its drive for continual improvement.
We are never as good today as we are going to be tomorrow because we are always working to become better.
The 22 000 men and women on the Nucor team the right people are looking forward to converting the significant investments made during the current downturn into profits that will give us higher highs when the next upcycle arrives.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to discuss our fourth quarter results and financial position.
Following Jim I will update you on Nucor's growth strategy.
Jim? Thanks John and good afternoon.
Fourth quarter 2012 earnings of $0.43 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of between $0.25 to $0.30 per diluted share.
Fourth quarter results included a larger-than-expected LIFO credit of $0.14 per diluted share compared to our guidance of $0.06 per diluted share.
Nucor's fourth quarter performance also benefited from stronger-than-expected operating profits at our sheet plate and beam mills.
A quick comment about our tax rate since it can be confusing due to the impact of profits from noncontrolling interests.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners the fourth quarter of 2012 effective tax rate was 30.3%.
For full year 2012 Nucor's effective tax rate was 34%.
Overall market conditions remained extremely challenging in 2012.
However difficult steel markets highlight the value and strength of Nucor's business model.
The best evidence is provided by Nucor's ability to generate strong cash flow through cyclical downturns.
2012 cash provided by operating activities increased to $1.2 billion from 2011's operating cash flow of $1 billion.
During the current cyclical downturn from 2009 through 2012 average annual cash generated from operations is more than double the amount generated during the last downturn from 2001 through 2003.
Our growth strategy's objective is higher highs and higher lows in the returns achieved through successive business cycles.
Balance sheet strength remains another important attribute of Nucor's business model.
Taking advantage of our healthy cash flow and liquidity position we retired $650 million in maturing long-term debt in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Nucor's total debt-to-capital ratio is now 31.7%.
That is down 4 percentage points from year end 2011.
In addition to reducing our leverage our strong cash flow and liquidity allowed us to continue Nucor's long tradition of growing stronger during downturns.
Our capital spending for 2012 totaled $948 million with most of this capital invested in growth projects.
We also invested $675 million in the acquisition of Skyline Steel.
This acquisition expands our growth opportunities in the steel piling business.
Skyline is off to an excellent start as a member of the Nucor team.
Nucor continues to enjoy a healthy liquidity position.
Cash short-term investments and restricted cash totaled $1.4 billion at the end of 2012.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and it does not mature until December 2016.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
Standard &amp; Poor's in its January 16 quarterly report entitled "U.S.
Metals and Mining Companies Strongest to Weakest" again ranked Nucor #1 for credit rating and outlook among the universe of 67 companies.
Nucor was also the only steel company in the group that S&amp;P awarded a strong business risk profile due to our competitive position and profit performance relative to our peers.
We are the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the extremely important competitive advantage of an investment-grade credit rating.
The benefits of our credit rating include: A lower cost of capital financial flexibility and our position as the lowest risk counterparty for both customers and suppliers.
Our natural gas working interest investments to support Nucor's raw material strategy are an excellent example of how financial strength pays off for Nucor.
In 2013 we will continue to take advantage of Nucor's position of strength to grow Nucor's long-term earnings power and shareholder value.
2013 capital expenditures are expected to exceed $1.1 billion.
We are implementing a number of projects throughout our upstream steelmaking and downstream businesses to develop new products increase quality and reduce costs.
Significant items in this year's capital budget include: Approximately $280 million for our Louisiana DRI facility; approximately $260 million for our natural gas-related investments; approximately $150 million to expand our SBQ production capabilities at our bar mills in South Carolina Nebraska and Tennessee; approximately $100 million to expand our Nucor-Yamato structural mills portfolio of sheet piling products; approximately $80 million to produce wider and lighter gauge hot rolled sheet at our South Carolina flat-rolled mill; and a number of other attractive projects ranging from the addition of a normalizing line at our North Carolina plate mill to a new reheat furnace at our Connecticut bar mill.
In 2013 Nucor's investing significant capital in 2 natural gas drilling programs that we believe will secure a reliable low-cost supply of natural gas for our current and expected future needs for more than 20 years.
These agreements are with Encana USA for onshore natural gas drilling in the continental United States.
The drilling of natural gas wells resulting from these 2 programs is expected to provide enough natural gas to equal Nucor's usage at all of our steel mills plus the usage of 2 DRI facilities; or alternatively 3 DRI plants.
We expect successful execution of our raw material strategy which is comprised of DRI production paired with this long-term and low-cost supply of natural gas to be a game-changer for the cost structure of Nucor's sheet plate and SBQ steelmaking operations.
The raw material strategy is also a game-changer by shortening Nucor's supply chain for high-quality iron units.
In addition to allowing us to invest in attractive growth opportunities our strong financial position and cash flow generation has enabled Nucor to build an impressive record of cash dividends paid to our shareholders.
Academic studies consistently show that dividends are a large component of long-term shareholder returns.
In December Nucor's board increased our regular or base dividend for the 40th consecutive year.
Driven by the Nucor team's success in growing long-term earnings power the base quarterly dividend has been increased approximately tenfold over the past 12 years.
For the first quarter of 2013 Nucor's earnings are expected to decline from the fourth quarter of 2012.
This reflects our outlook for stable performance at our operations and a small first quarter LIFO charge in contrast to the fourth quarter's very large LIFO credit.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
Our team is excited by the opportunities we see ahead to reward Nucor shareholders with very attractive long-term returns on their valuable capital.
John? Thanks Jim.
After 4 years of recession and at best modest economic growth we still cannot see signs of a full economic recovery.
Steel mill steel market conditions remain very challenging.
This is evidenced by a current capacity utilization of just 75% for the U.S.
steel industry.
Nonresidential construction activity has shown modest improvement but remains at anemic levels.
Relatively stronger end-use markets remain: Automotive heavy equipment and energy.
Imports which are being dumped in many instances continue to present a serious challenge to the U.S.
steel industry's recovery.
Preliminary U.S.
Census Bureau data for December of 2012 indicate full year 2012 imports at 26.7 million tons.
That is a 17% increase from 2011 imports of 22.8 million tons and a whopping 38% increase from 2010 imports of 19.3 million tons.
By contrast the U.S.
steel mills increased their production by less than 10% over the same 2-year period.
These import levels make no sense whatsoever when you consider both the sluggish domestic economic recovery and the fact that American producers overall are among the lowest cost producers of steel in the world.
Nucor will continue to be proactive in bringing attention to the critical need for our government to enforce rules-based free trade.
The existing way of the global trading stage is more than just a threat to the profitability of Nucor and our customers it is a major obstacle blocking the path of sustainable recovery for the U.S.
economy.
There's a growing awareness among policymakers and the overall public that this crisis must be dealt with and sooner rather than later.
We are extremely fortunate that Dan DiMicco will continue his work to promote a strong vibrant U.S.
manufacturing base.
Challenging economic times provide opportunities to businesses that have financial strength and disciplined strategies to grow profitably.
We have good news again to share with you this quarter about our work to grow stronger during the current cyclical downturn.
Our Arkansas sheet mill successfully started up its twin tank vacuum degasser during the fourth quarter.
Vacuum degassing removes carbon hydrogen and nitrogen from molten steel.
This is necessary for the production of steels with enhanced formability improved electrical efficiency and decreased susceptibility to hydrogen-induced cracking.
The degasser will expand our value-added product offerings to a number of markets.
It is also strategically positioned as the westernmost flat-roll degasser in the U.S.
and is in a prime location to serve the growing Mexican market.
Nucor continued to enjoy success in expanding its presence in automotive markets during 2012.
Shipments were up almost 20% over 2011.
Our North Carolina plate mill is on schedule to start up its normalizing line later this year.
The mill's new vacuum tank degasser that started up in 2012 is now in commercial production on new business for bridge and armor applications.
Construction is going well in our DRI facility in Louisiana.
We are on schedule for a startup in mid-2013.
The Nucor Steel Louisiana team continues to get the job done despite ongoing weather challenges as rainfall has been heavy in recent weeks.
This follows the previous challenge presented by last summer's record low levels of the Mississippi River.
Our international commercial team again demonstrated in 2012 Nucor's global competitiveness.
International shipments represented 10.4% of total steel shipments last year.
We continue to grow our international footprint in these very difficult market conditions.
As you can see Nucor is growing stronger.
A stronger Nucor is one positioned to deliver for our shareholders higher highs and higher lows in earnings through successive economic cycles.
Since the last cyclical peak in 2008 through disciplined execution of our multipronged growth strategy we have invested nearly $7 billion of our shareholders' valuable capital through the end of 2012; and with our expected 2013 capital spending of more than $1 billion our cumulative investments since the last cyclical peak will total approximately $8 billion.
These investments have dramatically increased Nucor's long-term earnings power.
During the next several years our focus will remain on executing our strategic plan and converting those $8 billion in investments into profits once the next cyclical upturn inevitably arrives in the economy and in our markets.
That said we will continue to plan for tomorrow while executing today.
We will continue to be opportunistic and take advantage of our strong balance sheet to capitalize on uniquely attractive investments as they become available.
And given the breadth of our multiple business platforms I am confident we will continue to find investments that grow shareholder value for Nucor.
With our disciplined focus and by working together as a team we will build on Nucor's long-term record of success in rewarding our shareholders with attractive returns on their valuable capital invested in our company.
As Dan DiMicco has said many times and I firmly believe Nucor's best years are still ahead of us.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
We would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And for our first question we go to Michelle Applebaum with Steel Market Intelligence.
First I want to congratulate you on your promotion.
It was very well deserved and also say I guess I don't want to say goodbye to Dan but I guess new mode of -- or congratulations I guess to Dan on his new job.
Maybe that's the way to do it as well on his promotion.
That's the way to say it and I certainly don't want you saying goodbye to Dan.
My question for you is can you give me your thoughts about what will be different and what will be the same in your tenure? I'd be happy to do that Michelle.
Well let me start with what will be a little different.
As I mentioned in the script we've invested by the end of 2013 we will have invested $8 billion in our strategic plan.
So over the next several years our focus will be on executing that plan converting those investments to higher highs during the next upcycle.
That will be our focus.
Let me talk a little bit about some of the things that'll be the same.
First of all most importantly our absolute commitment to safety will remain unchanged.
Our belief that there is nothing more important than safety will remain the same and our relentless drive to achieve Beyond Zero will not change.
We believe strongly that maximizing safety maximizes our teams' communication and productivity.
Shareholders benefit from our safety focus in many ways.
We'll stay committed to our mission statement to take care of our customers all of our customers the way we have defined them in the past.
We'll remain committed to a strong balance sheet.
We're in a highly cyclical business and remaining committed to a strong balance sheet in a cyclical business allows us to weather those economic cycles without having to divest the valuable people or assets.
And as we've shown during this recent downcycle that discipline has allowed us to take advantage of some strategic assets at attractive pricing.
We remain committed to growing our business through the long-term perspective that we've always had.
Our goal being long-term sustainable profitable growth.
We remain committed to capital to the previous capital deployments priorities that we had investing in long-term profitable growth return capital to our investors with a strong base dividend provide a supplemental dividend when economic conditions allow and opportunistically buy back stock only when other capital deployment commitments are fully satisfied and we believe that the stock is an excellent value.
So that's a little bit about what will be different and what will be the same.
That's great.
Michelle let me add one more point.
I should've mentioned this.
Of course we remain as a team committed to our strategic growth plan the 5-pronged growth strategy that we've had over the last 10 years.
Okay.
Listen I just want to tell you guys both and your whole team and I know this with certainty Ken would have been very very proud and I am.
And for our next question we go to Luke Folta with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The first kind of question I had was when you look at the investments that you're making in steel there's numerous investments in expanding capacity SBQ some things going on in your structural business wide and light project and all that I wanted to get a sense of -- I mean essentially these are investments you're making at pretty attractive capital costs that will expand your steel capacity without having to build any new melt capacity per se.
So I mean they're good investments.
But I guess I wanted to get some sense of how much additional shipment opportunity that these investments are going to generate over time.
The reason I ask I guess is because when we listen to your competitor Steel Dynamics talk about some of their initiatives and I think they get a decent amount of credit rightfully so for some of the things they're doing in rail and the SBQ expansions there.
And for them because they report production by mill it's really easy to kind of tally up what the potential benefit could be.
And I guess I'm trying to get there with Nucor to try to generate some of the similar math.
Well as you know Luke we do not talk about individual mills or even with our product groups' individual production levels.
But if you look at the investments that we've made they have not only been in steel but they've been over the full value chain of our business and that's how we'll continue to focus and that's how you need to think about the investments and the returns that we'll get during the next upcycle.
We made substantial investments in our steel side for sure and not only on the volume side but certainly growing value-added products.
So it's more than just looking at how many tons we will ship during the next upcycle.
It's the mix of the tons that we will ship during the next upcycle.
In addition to that we continue to grow upstream and downstream.
The recent acquisition of the Skyline asset a tremendous opportunity a tremendous addition to the Nucor family.
As the economy and our markets recovery -- recover they will be a large contributor to our business.
John I just would add one thing.
We have disclosed SBQ tonnage increments from those investments and it was about 1 million tons.
And Luke I'd also say that we'll be able to operate at a higher utilization rate through the economic cycle because we'll be able to ship products that we don't make today because of the fact that we're expanding the range of products we make.
So our utilization rates on average will be higher through the cycle than they have been in the past.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us some color on what the magnitude of the wide and light project should be just as far as how much tonnage you could produce at those gauges? Joe do you want to take a shot at that or Ladd? Joe can.
Luke the wide and light project is not going to add significant additional tons and it's going to allow us as Jim said to get us to the value added -- it'll be significantly higher margins than what we've been able to do.
But our tonnage from our Berkeley mill for that project will not increase.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But what percentage of Berkeley do you think will be in that product mix that the wide and light project is -- is it going to be 20% 25%? No the usual [indiscernible] right around the 10% to 15% range.
One of the things we might want to point out we talked during the script about the importance of us growing in the automotive market growing the right way in the automotive market and this is an investment that will allow us to continue growing in that market segment.
As we mentioned in the script the automotive market continues to be one of the markets that has remained strong during this downturn.
If you look at 2012 auto sales I believe they came in at about 14.5 million tons which was about 12% or 13% higher than last year last year being previous year in 2011.
But we expect them to increase again in 2013 we expect automotive sales to top out at about 15 million tons.
So the automotive market is a strong market and has remained strong during this downturn.
The wide and light project at Berkeley will allow us to further penetrate that market.
Again it's an issue of not significantly more tons but value-added higher-value tons into a value-appreciative market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more if I could on the natural gas project.
I appreciate your forecast for CapEx into next year so -- but in the press release when it was initially put out there there were some big numbers I guess it was $3.6 billion expected to be spent over some longer-term timeframe and it was a pretty wide range given as far as over what timeframe that would be spent.
Can you just maybe put into perspective for us over the next kind of 1 to 5 years what the spending annually could amount to for that project and also maybe what the some sense of what the benefit could be or maybe some numbers that could help at least put that into perspective? Sure Luke.
This is Joe Stratman.
I'd be happy take a shot at that.
I would say over the next 2 to 5 years just '13 and for the next 4 or 5 years after that the spend should be approximately in the same ballpark.
And as you might imagine and you know probably the natural gas drilling business a little bit you're deploying capital and you're drilling wells and the wells come on and they produce for a very long period of time.
But one well certainly doesn't produce all the gas that we're talking about in these programs so you're drilling multiple wells over a series of years and the gas will be drilled for a number of years will produce for a number of years more.
So when we talk about the natural gas supply for the next 20-plus years that's not all drilling programs.
The drilling program could go in the 7- to 10-year range and then the gas production will come after that.
So near term it's going to be very consistent with 2013 expenditure.
But then the gas production will go off for many years after that.
I would just build upon that a little bit.
We talked often and did again today in the script about Nucor's long-term focus on profitability and being a low-cost producer and this is one of those projects that's obviously a long-term project a lot of capital is being invested.
But again it's going to pay back over the long term.
This is important for us.
One of our strategic goals has been to be a low-cost producer of steel and have 6 million to 7 million tons of high-valued low-residual scrap or scrap substitute products under our control.
And the DRI project is critical to achieving that strategic objective.
Having the natural gas project ensures the long-term viability of the DRI project so they go hand-in-hand and both are focused on providing Nucor with a long-term return on a good investment.
And for our next question we go to Shneur Gershuni with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question I wanted to touch upon was with respect to the DRI project that you have coming online this year.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit of color on -- you gave us some CapEx numbers but whether there would be sort of some start up costs that would sort of run through the income statement before you started to see the benefit and then if you could sort of give us some color on when it starts up and when it hits full capacity this year.
I'll give you part of it and Ladd I'll let you talk about the full capacity part of the question.
Our forecast is that pre-operating and startup costs related to Louisiana will run somewhere in the neighborhood of $8 million to $9 million a quarter for the first half of the year.
And after that it should swing to a profit sometime in the third quarter with -- once it starts making product.
And the timing of hitting full capacity Ladd? We're anticipating right now as John mentioned mid-year -- starting that up the DRI facility it's on a slow ramp-up.
I would tell you within 2 to 4 months it will be at full capacity.
So by the end of next year absolutely we'll be running at full capacity.
By the end of this year yes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
There's been a lot of talk about residential activity picking up and it presages what will occur in the nonres side.
Is there anything that you're seeing in your order book that we can sort of view as kind of a greenshoe [ph] towards a recovery in nonresidential construction? Well we have seen a very modest improvement in our order entry and our backlogs going into the first quarter and there's been some other indicators that we've seen that nonresidential construction might be seeing -- will continue its modest growth as we move through 2013.
One is the ABI has been positive being positive being above 50 now for about 5 months in a row.
That's a good sign.
Residential construction picking up and strengthening is also usually a precursor to nonresidential picking up.
So there's a couple of things out there that we see as indicators that we will see at least a continued modest improvement in nonresidential construction through 2013.
Ham is there anything you'd like to add to that? John in all 3 of the areas that we play in we're cautiously optimistic this year.
I mean it's been a tough tough 4 or 5 years.
But cautious optimism I think is the right way to look at it.
I would point out that when you look at our fabricated products businesses over the last 3 quarters they have been profitable for 3 quarters in a row which is -- how many quarters previous to that? Too many to mention.
Okay so it's showing a good recovery.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one final follow-up question.
With your outlook on SBQ and the investments and so forth if there's a slowdown in any of the drilling activity would that impact the SBQ outlook for you at all? Well it plays a role in it but SBQ goes into many many other markets: Automotive big play in automotive; agricultural a lot of our SB products go into the agricultural market and that has been strong; heavy trucks; heavy equipment.
So that's one market but it's only one of many markets that SBQ goes into.
So I would not see a slowdown in drilling having a major impact on SBQ.
Obviously what happens in those other markets I mentioned will impact our SBQ markets.
And for our next question we go to Arun Viswanathan with Longbow Research.
So I guess you guys have appeared to be somewhat of a price leader recently with some announcements over the last couple of months.
Can you just help me understand what you're seeing maybe on the lead time side in sheet market as well as in Long Products that would lead you to those moves? Well many things come into our pricing decisions lead time being one of them.
Obviously there's other things that we see that will impact that also.
In terms of sheet our lead times are probably in the neighborhood of somewhere between 2 and 4 weeks depending upon the product.
When you go out into coil rolls [ph] and dowels [ph] you're probably around a 4- to 6-week lead time period.
On the Long Product side it's harder to get lead times.
Obviously we sell a lot of that off of the floor.
So we don't look at lead times as such so I really can't give you an answer on that one.
Plate side our lead times are probably in that same neighborhood.
It takes about 4 to 6 weeks depending upon the product.
Now clearly at our Hertford County mill with our heat treat side it's been doing extremely well the lead times are significantly longer on that.
We expect the same for our normalizing line as it comes into production during the course of this year.
So that gives you some indications of the lead times.
Okay.
And has that changed over the last month or so? Is it potentially -- you talk about cautious optimism so is that because those lead times are extending in certain areas? It's ebbed and flowed frankly.
Over the last couple of months it's picked up.
The lead times have shortened.
They've extended out.
So -- but overall we see it pretty stable.
I would describe demand in the sheet market as stable.
But having said that it's been stable but the capacity still far exceeds the supply -- the capacity far exceeds the demand that's out there in the market.
So we see 2013 to be another challenging year in sheet.
The commentary about cautioned optimism wasn't about the steel mill products directly it was about the downstream Construction Products businesses specifically just as a clarification.
Okay.
And I guess the final question I had was just on the course of strategy last year you did go downstream a little bit and you have some other investments this year maybe just help me understand what you guys are thinking next as far as any large moves.
Obviously I know about DRI and all that but are you still contemplating any large improvements or increases in capacity or M&amp;A or any what do you think about that? I think we will continue to look at every opportunity as it becomes available.
We'll assess it and we'll make the right decision.
And we'll let you know when we make those decisions.
We go next to Brian Yu with Citi.
Research Division</strong> John when we look at your 2012 shipments of structural you're the only one to show year-on-year increase and I was wondering if any of that has to do with your acquisition of Skyline and being able to move your own product through? And if that's the case how much more opportunities are there as we look out into 2013? Well certainly having Skyline as part of the Nucor family has allowed us to move product through the new family member and that's helped.
I don't know if we want to comment specifically on how much more opportunity we have going through that.
We like to think of our opportunities as limitless so we encourage our new friends and new family members to continue growing their business at Skyline.
And we can make a lot of product at NYS that we can ship [indiscernible] to the market.
As we make the new [indiscernible] size...
I was going to add one thing Brian.
We are adding the wider sheet piling sections at Nucor-Yamato.
Those will come online we anticipate in the middle of next year 2014.
That will be new products for us.
Those are products that the Skyline team has been distributing in the past from other suppliers and certainly is a net increase for the Nucor family.
So that's a growth opportunity within the structural business.
And we're always -- the team at Nucor-Yamato and the team at Berkeley our 2 structural mills are always looking at new sections.
Not all of them are huge volume but incrementally they make nice tons in these kinds of markets.
And as Jim Frias said earlier it keeps us at higher faster utilization rates throughout all market conditions.
And Joe you may also speak to how Skyline will benefit the sheet business more this year next year? One of the product lines that Skyline has and produces is pipe piling.
These are for foundation applications.
This is not structural type pipe and tube this is not OCTG pipe.
These are foundation pipe piles.
They produce those pipe piles.
The raw material they use is a sheet coil our light plate coil and more of those tons from Skyline will be directed to Nucor mills now that they're a member of our family.
So that'll improve the overall Nucor business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And the second question is just non-fabrication business I think you mentioned that it is getting better in there.
Can you talk about the backlog if you can provide some perspective on what kind of growth you're seeing there? And then would that be more of an indication of demand for the bar or would you move some structural products through there too? I'll just make a general statement about it.
We're not going to give out any specific numbers on our backlogs.
We've mentioned several times that we've seen a modest improvement and we'll leave it at that.
Certainly as that market improves we will move more of our products through those businesses our bar products our structural products all of our products.
So we're anxiously awaiting to grow from modest to better.
Of the 3 businesses the deck plant obviously the sheet products the joist plants are primarily bar the rebar fab this is all bar.
But the metal building businesses uses sheet bar and structural.
So they use some of all 3.
And we go next to Timna Tanners with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you because we've all been probing a lot into getting to know what DRI is and understanding it better one of the pushbacks I keep hearing from people is that this just sounds too good to be true.
So I wanted to get from you what can go wrong there? What would keep you up at night in your whole DRI endeavor? What keeps me up at night in our DRI endeavor? Well over the last year it's been weather okay? It's a case of too much rain or too little rain.
We talked about that during the script.
This is a proven technology so I really don't have a concern about the technology itself.
We've got a great team down there.
We have been operating our plant in Trinidad for several years now and we've gone from starting that plant up to taking it to a world-class facility in a very short period of time.
So we're experienced at DRI production.
We understand the process.
So frankly there's many things that keep me up at night but our DRI plant the startup of our DRI plant is not one of them.
Timna I would just add 2 comments.
One is that our Trinidad DRI facility had its most profitable year this year.
So even in a weak market it's doing pretty well.
And in general the comment we've made to you and a number of folks is that in weak markets like we're seeing now we'll make a small decent return on the DRI product have some small cost advantages that are worthwhile.
And in strong markets we'll have very very large competitive advantages when scrap prices and pig iron prices which typically gone extremely high will be based on this fixed cost of natural gas we've locked in plus iron ore prices which tend to not be quite as volatile.
And you've seen some of the volatility that existed in those markets over the last year and I just want to repeat what we said several times to you and that is that when we view the DRI investment the purpose is to produce a low-cost sustainable and long-term supply of a high-quality iron unit over the cycle and that's a key statement 'over the cycle.' When you look at just iron ore over the last 6 months it's gone from a low of about what $97 $98.
And it peaked out somewhere recently at about $155 a ton.
So when you have those kinds of swings that impacts all of our raw materials.
Clearly there's a correlation between iron ore pricing and pig iron pricing and even the scrap prices.
So this provides for us a long-term supply over the cycle of low-cost high-quality scrap substitute products for our mills.
And Timna let me add one more thing.
As you know in your research you said you've been studying DRI and you go back to the history of DRI in this country you'll see that it's been a successful technology but the one thing that it failed at over the decades is controlling the natural gas price.
That's what drove the original DRI plants to their demise and that's one of the key elements of the whole DRI plant.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then so from high-level to a more granular question I wanted to go into a little bit about what you said about the first quarter.
We have been here in first quarter surprisingly weak to start the year but your guidance of kind of a flattish outlook in terms of operations particularly even a little surprising considering that you had the worst quarter in a couple of years in both plate and bars.
So can you just give us a little bit more color? Is this something that you think is somewhat temporary? Is it weather or the election or the fiscal cliff or is it something more onerous in terms of potential weak volume levels? I would answer by saying all of the above okay? The economy is still struggling.
We talked about the things that are influencing our business.
You mentioned the fiscal cliff.
Certainly consumer confidence remains at a very low level.
There's a lot of issues that are still out there in the economy.
And you also have the issue that we mentioned of imports.
There's a continuing surge of unfairly traded imports that needs to be dealt with.
So all of those are factors that we have rolled into our forecast and said based on all that we think that the business will be stable and our operations will be consistent into the first quarter.
I don't want to get into any breakdown product by product.
We go next to Dave Galison with CIBC World Markets.
Research Division</strong> So just -- now that you're heading into the ramp-up for the DRI facility can you talk a bit about the next stages for your raw material strategy and how we should think about the expansion to the 6 million and 7 million tons of scrap substitute? Well first things first David.
We want to start up the existing one and get it running.
And then once we have it up and running as we said we'll start up in the middle of the year we should be up to full production sometime by the end of the year.
Once we accomplish that we'll take a look at where things stand how well that's performing what we've learned and we'll take a look at the market at that time the economy at that time.
Based on what we see we'll make a decision on how we move forward.
Research Division</strong> And would it be a little bit longer timeframe maybe another year a couple of years before you expand into that on level? Again I'm not going to give a specific timeframe because we have to take a look at what the environment looks like as we make that decision at the end of next year.
But we built the facility in Louisiana with the infrastructure to support a second DRI unit.
So that should give you some indication of our thinking.
And we will have 4.5 million of the 6 million to 7 million tons established so we've made significant progress with the second DRI facility towards our goal.
There isn't a lot of pressure that we have to immediately do one right away.
Like John said there'll be a numbers factors that affect the decision.
Research Division</strong> And then just a housekeeping question on the tax rate.
Is there -- it was a bit lower in this quarter.
Was there anything unusual there that brought it down? Nothing too dramatic.
There was some state long-term liabilities from 2008 that fell off as new ones went on and profits were bigger in '08 than they were in '12 so the flip of those things creates a small benefit in the quarter but it wasn't it might be $6 million or $7 million somewhere in that range.
And we go next to Richard Garchitorena with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So my first question just wanted to follow up on the questions on the projects SBQ expansions at Berkeley.
I know you can't give us margin expectations but is there any way you can quantify the timing of when those are going to come on through 2013? Are they going to be more back half of the year or spread out throughout the year? Well there's different timelines for the different projects that we have.
Suffice it to say that most of them will be coming online during 2013.
We might have 1 or 2 that will move into the first and second quarter of '14.
Jim is there anything you want to add to that? John that's basically it.
We've got the projects in Memphis Nebraska and Arlington and they're spread out projects affecting different areas of the operation.
Some will be on as early as midyear this year some in the fall of '13 and then some spill over into midyear of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my other question was just on nonres again.
Obviously we've seen some small improvement but I guess can you tell us what you think about when that turns how is that going to be broken down between commercial construction and infrastructure given the fact that government spending probably has not returned and probably will not return as quickly as to the rest of nonres and obviously residential construction has led the way.
So how do you think about that going forward? Let me make sure I understand the question.
You're asking how we view infrastructure builds versus other forms of nonresidential construction? Research Division</strong> Which market do you think will come back first and how is that going to impact Nucor? Well infrastructure might be slower in coming back simply because of government spending.
That said when you look at the condition of our infrastructure it's in very poor shape.
So sooner or later the government's going to have to make a decision to repair the damaged infrastructure of our country.
So sooner or later we will see a build a return in infrastructure.
When that's going to occur I really can't say.
On the nonresidential construction side as we said it's growing slowly.
Our best guess would probably be maybe 2 more years of slow growth before we saw any significant improvement.
Every time we predict that it's starting better it slows down again.
So again we think it's going to be better this year but there's just not a lot of signs out there.
The most encouraging thing is all the talk about manufacturing returning to the United States.
That will be as big as anything in helping the nonres construction.
And as we've said several times today our focus at Nucor is always the long term.
So whether it returns this year or next year we continue to prepare for it invest in our company and in our facilities so that we're ready for it when it does come.
Inevitably it's going to return.
Inevitably the economy will improve.
Inevitably our markets will improve.
Inevitably nonresidential construction will improve and infrastructure builds will improve.
It's just a question of time.
And we'll go next to Mark Parr with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I have -- this is kind of a high-level thought but if you think about all the new iron units that are currently in process you've got you guys in Louisiana you've got this Magnetation thing going on up in Minnesota.
You've got Mittel [ph] increasing taconite production U.S.
Steel increasing taconite production how do you reconcile all that in a North American steel market that's not growing a whole heck of a lot? I'd just be interested in your thoughts about that.
Remember that iron units move global so you've got to look at the global steel market and certainly right now that isn't the greatest either.
When you look at the long-term drivers and the dynamics of the global market we continue to believe it's going to improve and be strong.
And we always refer to it as the super cycles of steel and steel commodities.
You've got still a lot of developing countries out there that are moving into the middle-class with fairly low steel intensities today that will improve.
Over the course of the long-term cycle globally steel demand will still be strong.
That will necessitate a strong demand for the commodities the raw materials that go into it.
So we look at it again in terms of a long-term cycle for steel demand and for the demand commodities.
We don't look at it regionally in North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay so...
A great example of that would be to take a look at how much scrap has been exported out of the country this year alone and it's going to be something that -- 2012 I think will come in at about 23 million tons of scrap exported out of the United States and that's going to continue.
And I would add to that especially given some of the countries today and the rules that they are imposing upon the exportation of their raw materials particularly scrap.
There's been a number of countries that have recently imposed tariffs or have outright banned the exportation of scrap.
So as you have those dynamics come into play there's going to be long-term continued demand for iron units of all types.
We believe that and that's why we continue to invest in them.
Research Division</strong> Just one other question if I could is there -- I mean do you have any thoughts about if you're going to have a positive surprise on shipments in the first quarter where do you think it might come from? And likewise if you were going to have a negative surprise in shipments where do you think that would come from? Well I guess the positive surprise in shipments would come if we had a very very surprising improvement in the economy...
Research Division</strong> Any particular end markets though? I mean I wasn't trying to -- I was trying to be a little more specific.
Well we've talked about the ones that remained strong and of course that means that there are some that are weak.
So if automotive energy infrastructure -- excuse me agricultural would suddenly slowdown that could have a negative impact upon our business or if some of the ones that we mentioned are slowly but modestly improving take off wildly it could have a positive impact on our business.
So it really depends upon what happens in the economy.
We aren't expecting any surprises.
And hopefully if we get any they'll be the positive type.
And we go next to Tony Rizzuto with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of questions here.
It's been some time since you guys have broken out your key end markets.
And now with growing auto and a lot of your acquisitions investments I was wondering if you could take a stab at it if you could share it with us where you see how big auto is construction oil and gas all those different markets for us that's one of my questions.
Well I don't know that we want to give specifics on that.
We might talk about some of the areas that we've grown in.
We've mentioned during the call that automotive has been a focus for us and we've grown in that.
I'm not going to give out any specific tonnages.
But I will say that as I mentioned we grew 20% in that market.
The markets that you mentioned are all strong markets for us obviously pipe and tube gas industry's strong all the ones that you mentioned.
I don't think we want to get into giving specific market shares or a breakdown of what percentage of our products go into the individual markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It'd more or less from a revenue standpoint that's what I'm trying to get at.
And I used to think about Nucor being maybe closer to 60% or 65% construction.
My feeling is it's probably maybe a little bit less today but that's where I'm kind of going with this.
That's it.
If you're looking at it from that macro view we could make that comment and we would agree with you that over the last 5 years we have worked hard and invested to shift more into the value-added products and we always make sure that as we do that we don't abandon any of the markets that we play in so we stay strong in the commodity markets as we have continued to invest and grow into the value-added markets.
In terms of general construction versus more manufactured products maybe 65% 70% of revenue.
Yes the only thing I'd say is we do publish statistics about how much we make in each of the subproduct categories: Sheet plate structural.
So if you take a look at that data we're the largest U.S.
steel producer and we've got the broadest product offering.
So generally whatever the U.S.
demand for steel products is we're going to mirror it fairly closely because we pretty much make all the products.
And participate in all the markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And in terms of scrap just your thoughts here obviously we're hearing that the scrap busheling for February could be down maybe $10 $20 per long ton.
And I was wondering how you feel about the markets how you see it playing out? If you can make any comments on that it'd be very helpful.
Well I asked Mr.
Grass about it before the call and he told me that if the market does not go up and the market does not go down then there's 100% chance it's going to go sideways.
I don't know if that helps you Tony.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
100% chance that it's going to go sideways all right.
Well that's really helpful.
If it doesn't go up and if it doesn't go down.
Yes let me make a general comment.
It's a very regional business and in this particular season more than in the past we've had a lot of strange weather that's occurred regionally so there's a lot of different impacts on different regions of the country.
Overall as we look going forward we see it not changing significantly from where it is today.
So it's going to stay within a band at least for the next month.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And the final question I have is when is the right time for Nucor to buy iron ore assets? Are you of the view that iron ore is going to find its way ultimately down to that kind of $80 to $100 per metric ton level? How do you see it and what's your thought process there John? It's the same as Dan has said many times.
We continue to look at every opportunity that's out there.
When we find the right opportunity if we find the right opportunity we'll act.
If we don't we won't.
And we go next to Sal Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John just wanted to understand your CapEx sort of program for the next couple of years.
It looks like most of these projects are going to be winding down this year.
The DRI the SBQ probably Nucor-Yamato sheet piling may extend into '14 and it looks like the lighter gauge in South Carolina mill will also wind down.
So I just want to understand how do we look at it and of course natural gas $260 million per year looks like is going to continue.
But how should we think about CapEx sort of '14 and beyond either you or Jim can take a stab at it please? Sal I'd say that based on what we know today our expectation is that '13 will be a peak year for CapEx and it will wind down some in '14.
But quite honestly the way we're constantly working on strategic opportunities I'd hate to limit it and say it couldn't be a $1 billion again.
I would say that what we know today would say it's probably in the $600 million to $700 million range in 2014.
And for us that's a long way to think out about specific CapEx numbers and we've talked about this before.
We have a strategic planning meeting offsite every year in August.
And after August we get a better feel for what's going to happen 2 years out to 5 years out.
And I don't know if we'll be willing to add color after that point in time we probably won't because we like to keep our cards close to the chest.
But I would say right now our expectation is '14's down and who can even imagine after '14.
And the only thing I would add to that Jim is we are constantly looking for the right opportunities.
Given our strong balance sheet we're able to act on those opportunities when they become available.
We've got a great mergers and acquisition team that are constantly evaluating opportunities.
If the right ones come along we'll act on them.
And we have the balance sheet to do it and we'll do it.
So I don't want to limit any comments as to what capital would look like in '14.
That will depend entirely upon what opportunities are in front of us at that time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I have a question on the pellets supply.
I know you're buying pellets for your plant at the moment iron ore pellets from Brazil and you continue to -- I think you planned [indiscernible] are beginning to buy from Brazil or -- I think Brazil I believe that's what Dan said in the past.
And I was wondering have you looked at the supplier from the northern part in Minnesota area or Canada and does it make sense for you to look at that in terms of freight costs and quality over time that you can source your raw materials also within the continent rather than going out of here? Just to help your memory Dan has mentioned several times that we actually get them from 3 different suppliers 2 of which are in Brazil and 1 of which is in Canada.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have you looked at other sources? Absolutely.
We look not only in Canada for other sources and in Brazil for other sources but frankly we scour the world for the right pellet and iron ore feedstock and we found some interesting opportunities in some strange places and we'll continue to pursue those.
And we go next to Michelle Applebaum with Steel Market Intelligence.
I have a follow-up question.
So I wanted to ask you guys started talking about a new style of enforcement a trade kind of thing and I'm sure you've noticed that a number of our trading partners particularly in Latin America in Asia and Europe have all been kind of putting up making a lot of noise about some trade enforcement in their regions.
And I was just wondering if you could give us an update on what's happening with that in terms of new and creative out-of-the-box types of things.
Well I'm not going to give any specifics.
We want to keep them as surprises.
We don't want to give away our strategy.
But I'll make a general statement and the focus will be on a more proactive approach.
That's what we need in this country and we're going to pursue that as we move forward.
Obviously the way that it's worked in the past the way that it's worked in the past has been a very reactive program.
We take action after the damage is done after steel companies are put out of business after American workers lose their jobs.
Our approach will be much more proactive.
And I'm not going to say much more than that other than to say that we're addressing that issue every day with our government.
As mentioned during the script Dan DiMicco is going to remain focused on that and I've got great confidence in his ability to get it done.
And with that ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions on our roster.
Therefore Mr.
Ferriola I will turn the conference back over to you for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
I'd like to close by saying thank you for your interest in our company.
And I'd like to say thank you to our 22 000 teammates for working safe for working hard for working smart and working together.
Thank you for what you do every day and please continue to do it safely.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Second Quarter of 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Dana.
Good afternoon.
This is John Ferriola Nucor's Chief Executive Officer and President.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are other members of Nucor's senior leadership team: Dan Dimicco our Executive chairman; Jim Frias our Chief Financial Officer; and Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan and Joe Stratman.
Executive Vice President Keith Grass is traveling today.
First and most importantly we want to thank everyone on our teams at Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel for your hard work taking care of all of our customers in what is now the fifth consecutive year of extremely challenging steel market and economic conditions.
You have built and continued to build a stronger Nucor by working safely working smart and working together.
The more than 22 000 men and women of the Nucor team our company's greatest asset and our greatest competitive advantage you are the right people doing the right things every day.
Thank you all.
While steel markets remain challenging we have a number of exciting updates to share with you today on our success in growing Nucor's long-term earnings power.
Nucor is in a position of strength in our industry and we are growing strongly.
We are primed and ready for the inevitable steel industry's cyclical upturn.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to discuss our second quarter results and financial position.
Following Jim I will discuss the execution on many of our initiatives focused on profitable growth.
Jim? Thanks John and good afternoon.
Second quarter of 2013 earnings of $0.27 per diluted share were within our guidance range of between $0.25 to $0.30 per diluted share.
Consistent with our guidance there was no LIFO impact on the results for the just completed quarter.
By comparison first quarter of 2013 results included an after-tax LIFO charge of $0.03 per diluted share.
On a sequential quarter basis our steel mills' profitability declined.
Our fabricated products business returned profitability in the second quarter following a modest loss in the seasonally slow first quarter.
Fabricated products which included joist and decking rebar fabrication and pre-engineered metal buildings have now reported profits for 4 of the past 5 quarters.
This improved performance has been achieved during very depressed levels of nonresidential construction.
A quick comment about our tax rate since it can be confusing due to the impact of profits from noncontrolling interests.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners the second quarter of 2013 effective tax rate was 35.1% or slightly higher than normal.
Balance sheet strength remains an important attribute of Nucor's business model.
Our total debt-to-capital ratio is 31%.
Cash short-term investments and restricted cash totaled $749 million at the end of the second quarter of 2013.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and it does not mature until December 2016.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
Nucor is the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the extremely important competitive advantage of an investment grade credit rating.
Standard &amp; Poor's highlighted our unrivaled position of financial strength in the steel industry in the second quarter of 2013 review of U.S.
metals and mining companies' strongest to weakest.
Nucor was again ranked #1 for credit rating and business risk profile among the universe of 66 companies.
Nucor's second quarter cash position decreased by $330 million from the immediately preceding quarter.
Decline was largely due to the retirement of $250 million of long-term debt maturing in June as well as of the ongoing funding of our 2013 capital projects.
In an uncertain economy we are well positioned to benefit from the financial flexibility provided by our strong balance sheet and healthy cash flow generation through the cycle.
Our balance sheet liquidity and cash flow have enabled us to continue Nucor's long tradition of growing stronger during downturns.
2013 capital expenditures are expected to exceed $1.1 billion.
Of this total we estimate that more than 80% is for what we consider to be strategic investments.
The balance is for more recurring or maintenance capital spending.
Our strategic investments are viewed as relatively low-risk and high-return projects focused on key objectives such as lowering our raw material cost and shifting our product mix to include more value-added offerings.
Lowering our raw materials cost improves our competitive position and profitability throughout the economic cycle.
The shift in our portfolio to more value-added higher margin products does the same as well as reducing the competitive pressure we face from imports.
The most significance of these investments which are being completed over the balance of 2013 and into 2014 include: adding a normalizing line at our North Carolina plate mill; constructing our Louisiana direct-reduced iron facility and the related natural gas drilling investments; expanding our South Carolina flat-rolled mills product portfolio to include wider and lighter gauge sheet steel; expanding our north -- excuse me expanding our Nucor-Yamato structural mills portfolio of sheet piling products to build upon our highly successful 2012 acquisition of Skyline Steel the market leader in steel piling distribution; and expanding our value-added SBQ production capabilities at our bar mills in South Carolina Nebraska and Tennessee.
As the majority of our strategic projects will be completed by early to mid-2014 we expect lower capital expenditures next year.
Total spending at our steelmaking raw materials and downstream businesses should decline closer to more maintenance-type levels.
At the same time our natural gas drilling expenditures will be at contractual levels which we have previously disclosed totaling over $700 million for the 2-year period of 2014 and 2015.
Nucor's natural gas investments will secure a long-term low-cost supply of natural gas sufficient to cover our expected future steelmaking and DRI production needs for more than 20 years.
The performance of wells completed over the past 2 years has exceeded the projections we used to justify this capital allocation decision.
That of course translates into lower gas cost and high returns from our drilling investments.
We also expect our natural gas investments to be cash flow positive by 2016 meaning the cash generated from sales will exceed the cost of drilling new wells.
Our team is excited by the opportunities we are executing to continue rewarding Nucor shareholders with very attractive long-term returns under valuable capital.
The objective of our growth strategy is higher highs and peak earnings power and shareholder value through successive business cycles.
For the third quarter of 2013 Nucor's earnings are expected to improve modestly from the second quarter level.
This outlook reflects several factors.
Lateral pricing has improved in the recent weeks due to market supply disruptions resulting from production and labor issues in several competitors.
Our downstream businesses expect further improvement in earnings in the seasonally strong third quarter.
We also expect our David J.
Joseph scrap processing operations to benefit from the recent increase in scrap pricing.
On the negative side we expect pre-operating start costs at our Louisiana due to actually increase in the third quarter.
Overall the outlook continues to be challenged by economic -- excuse me overall the outlook continues to be challenged by anemic economic growth and excess global steel capacity.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
John? Thanks Jim.
As I mentioned earlier we are now 5 years into what remains a stagnant global economic environment and in turn extremely difficult steel market conditions.
Two facts tell the story of this harsh environment.
First in this so-called U.S.
economic recovery that began in June of 2009 a realistic measure of the unemployment rate has seen very little progress over 4 years and currently stands at 17.5%.
That rate includes the unemployed underemployed and those people who have simply given up hope to finding a job and have dropped out of the labor force.
Second imports continue to devastate the margins and output of the steel industry in the United States.
Through May of this year steel imports are running at an annualized rate of nearly 26 million tons.
This makes no sense at all given the fact that American producers are among the lowest-cost producers of steel in the world.
The reason it is happening is the failure of U.S.
trade policy to address imported steel sold at dumped and subsidized prices in a timely and effective manner.
The recent pipe and tube trade case filed against Korea and 8 other countries is yet another example of our country's "too little too late" approach to enforcing trade laws.
Our view remains unchanged.
These very serious challenges facing the U.S.
economy all have solutions.
The time is right and long overdue to reinvigorate the American economy by seizing very real and significant opportunities available to our nation in energy infrastructure rebuilding and growing a globally competitive U.S.
manufacturing sector that can only prosper in a environment of rules-based free trade.
Why is it so important that we have effective and timely enforcement of rules-based free trade? If not for dumped steel and subsidized imports we would have more production and more jobs in the United States.
Put simply the key ingredients required for healthy and sustainable U.S.
economic growth are jobs jobs and more jobs.
For the steel industry it is absolutely critical that policymakers address the issue of China's estimated excess of steel production capacity of at least 200 million tons.
Most if not virtually all of this capacity is government-owned and subsidized.
The bottom line is simple.
The Chinese government must reduce government-owned capacity not build more of it.
The Chinese government must also stop providing financing and other subsidies to steel producers that are not cost effective and do not earn adequate returns to be sustained.
You can expect Nucor to continue to be proactive and stake out a sound economic policy.
It is vital to fulfilling our most important responsibility to be good stewards of our shareholders' valuable capital.
The Nucor team has always managed our business with a long-term perspective.
With that longer-term view we are bullish on the profitable growth opportunities for both the American economy and for Nucor.
We are optimistic regarding the desire and ability of the American people to do the right things over the long run to reinvigorate our economy.
Quite frankly the time is right for a U.S.
economic renaissance fueled by our country's abundant energy resources and a workforce unrivaled in its productivity and ability to innovate.
For those reasons we are busy building a stronger Nucor.
To that end we have invested approximately $8 billion of our shareholders' capital from the last cyclical peak in the economy in 2008 through the end of 2013.
As Jim discussed our most recent period of investment to grow long-term earnings will peak this year.
These investments have dramatically expanded Nucor's long-term earnings power.
I would also like to reiterate Jim's point that our investments during this downturn are what we consider low risk and high return.
Rather than just adding capacity to an oversupplied market Nucor is reducing its raw materials cost and shifting our mix toward more value-added higher-margin products.
Over the next several years our unrelenting focus will remain on executing our strategic plan and converting our $8 billion of investments into higher highs and profitability once the next cyclical upturn inevitably arrives.
At the same time we will continue to plan for tomorrow while executing today.
I will now update you on the excellent progress achieved by our team this quarter in executing our strategic growth.
Construction is nearing completion on our 2.5 million metric ton annual capacity DRI facility in Louisiana.
We expect to begin hot commissioning in August and to start production by the end of September.
Our team in Louisiana is doing an excellent job bringing online a plan of enormous scope.
For example the material handling equipment includes 4.5 miles of conveyors.
A port facility has one mile of Mississippi River frontage and is capable of receiving vessels as large as 950 feet in length with cargoes of about 115 000 metric tons.
Given the scope of this project start-up tick ups are to be expected.
However our confidence is extremely high in the process technology.
We expect completion of our Louisiana plant paired with our long-term and low-cost natural gas supply will be a game changer for Nucor's core structure for high-quality iron units.
Nucor is preparing to take a huge step forward in the implementation of our raw materials strategy.
Combining Louisiana's capacity with the 2 million tons of annual capacity of our existing Trinidad DRI plant will bring us to our 2/3 of our long-term goal to control 6 million to 7 million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes.
In June our Hertford County North Carolina plate mill successfully started production on its new normalizing line.
The initial output has been well received by our customers who have noted superior flatness and surface quality of our normalized plate.
Our 120 000 tons per year capacity normalizing line will serve attractive end-use markets such as energy transportation shipbuilding and on the plate.
Complementing our recent investments in the heat treat facility and a vacuum tank degasser Herbert County's value-added plate product's annual capacity has now doubled to 240 000 tons.
Our bar mill group is on track with the implementation of several projects to expand our SBQ production capabilities at our mills in South Carolina Nebraska and Tennessee.
In the current quarter the South Carolina mill will start production on its new bar locker.
This equipment will allow us to expand our participation in an attractive and underserved bar mill [ph] market in the Southeastern United States.
In the second half of this year our Tennessee mill will commission new state-of-the-art SBQ bar inspection equipment that will provide growth opportunities in supplying precision engineered bars for the most demanding applications.
In late 2013 our Nebraska mill will bring online significant upgrades that include a bar share [ph] straightener and cold shear.
Other Nucor SBQ projects are scheduled for completion in 2014.
It is important to understand that all of our SBQ investments had one objective: It is to expand the breadth and depth of Nucor's value-added SBQ product offerings.
We see many attractive opportunities to better serve existing and new customers with our growing SBQ product portfolio.
Our team at Berkeley County South Carolina sheet mill remains on time and on budget for the first quarter of 2014 completion of its wide range project.
This investment involves an upgrade in the modernization of equipment from the top of the caster through the reversing mills.
It will provide Berkeley with the capability to produce wider and lighter gauge sheet steel.
These expanded capabilities will provide profitable opportunities to move up the value chain in agricultural [indiscernible] industrial equipment heavy truck and automotive high-strength and ultra high-strength applications.
Our Nucor-Yamato sheet piling product expansion is on schedule for production startup in the second half of 2014.
This project will add several new sheet piling sections to their value-added offerings.
This initiative is an excellent example of Nucor's time-proven highest-return strategy for profitable growth investments that optimize our existing operations.
In this case we are expanding the opportunities for profitable growth both in the production of sheet piling at Nucor-Yamato and in distribution by recently acquired Skyline Steel.
While market conditions remain frustratingly challenged these are nevertheless exciting times for the Nucor family as we grow stronger and stronger.
A stronger Nucor is one that continually improves its capability to take care of our customers.
As always we define our customers as being the people who buy and use our products our teammates and our shareholders.
In closing I want to again thank everyone on the Nucor team for working safely working hard and working together to build a stronger Nucor.
Thank you and please keep it going.
We would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Michelle Applebaum with Steel Market Intelligence.
So there was great article in the American Metal Market last week.
You gave some interviews and there were some new things in the article.
There was one thing in particular that really surprised me.
You said that with -- and I apologize this isn't the great first question.
But you were talking about kind of how you would -- how you guys would be running the company going forward.
And you said one thing you'll see more emphasis is commercial side.
And then you said "Without a doubt we're known for our operational prowess.
People say Nucor is one hell of an operating company and we are.
They might not say we are one hell of a commercial company and we're going to change that." I got that's kind of unusual for even a new CEO to come out and say something like that.
So I was going to kind of ask you to elaborate on what you meant by that and where you thought the opportunities might be.
Okay.
It's a good question.
I don't remember using those words in the article but I'm sure I did.
So let me start by making a few comments.
Yes we are focused on commercial excellence.
That's an area of improvement that we believe will -- is important to Nucor.
I also want to make sure I stressed the fact that we've got a great commercial team they're doing a great job already.
But at Nucor continuous improvement is our middle name so we're focused on getting even better in commercial excellence.
And I'll talk some of the areas that we will focus on.
But I also have to make sure that I stress the fact that we are operationally excellent and there will be no focus taken off of remaining excellent in our operations.
So looking to expand our commercial excellence going forward this isn't really any change of direction for the company.
It's more of an expansion of expectations for all of our teammates.
Commercial excellence isn't something that's just done by our commercial team.
It's something that's the responsibility of every member of the Nucor family.
And as we focus on commercial excellence we talk about 5 areas of focus.
We call them the 5 pillars of commercial excellence.
And just going through them briefly it's being more market driven it means being more aware more -- better at anticipating the needs of our customers and finding ways to create value for them.
It's being easier to do business with.
It's building strong durable loyal relationships that bring value to our customers and to us.
And it's about creating sustainable results making decisions that are long-term decisions to bring extra value to us and to our customers.
And finally it's about doing it together leveraging the overwhelming competitive advantage our 22 000 teammates working together bring to our customers and are of course expecting to get paid for that value.
Okay.
Well one of the things I wanted to say that really impressed me about you saying that whether those were exactly the words.
I know you don't say swear words so probably not.
It might have been a slip of the moment.
Is that you've sort of been the Chief Commercial Officer.
That sort of have been your mission at the company.
So I just want to say -- I'm not going to opine whether what I think of your commercial efforts.
But for you to say that about something that sort of been one of your main pillars last 10 years I think is quite impressive in and of itself.
So I just wanted to say kudos to you to kind of look for that in the public domain.
My second question was an easier question.
Why did your capacity utilization drop from 77% in the first half of last year to 72.5% in the first of this year? Well there was couple of reasons Michelle.
One that I'll start with is that we had taken fairly large shutdowns in the first half of this year in preparation for many of the projects that we mentioned just a while ago.
Our Darlington facility was offline for I think 3 weeks in preparing for the projects that we're doing there.
NYS was offline for 17 days preparing for the piling project work that we're doing there.
We had a Memphis outage preparing for the second vacuum tank gasser.
So we had a lot of things going on.
And in addition to that we typically take an awful lot of our maintenance shutdowns in the second quarter.
A lot of our facilities are located in areas where you have extreme heat in summer and extremely cold weather in the winter.
So we try to moderate shutdown temperatures by working in the second quarter.
So we had a lot of maintenance shutdowns also in the second quarter.
I guess one final point that I would mention is when I look back at the -- at 2012 if memory serves me -- correct me the first half of 2012 we were very strong on Flat-Rolled Products.
Our sheet business was very strong in the first half of 2012 and it's down in the first half of 2013.
And part of that obviously is driven by the topic that I had early in the opening comments and that being imports.
We've -- we at the whole industry operating capacity utilization is down as a result of the tremendous number of imports that have been flooding into the United States in the first half of this year.
And we'll go next to Martin Englert with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Looking to the release you had noted this time around that construction market remain challenged.
Last quarter you kind of highlighted cautious optimism and slow improvement.
Has your view changed at all? Well cautious optimism is the only thing that keeps us going in this market.
We'll say it again.
There are certain things that we see that give us some slight indication that things might be getting a little bit better.
We always look at residential construction as a leading indicator a 9- to 12-month leading indicator of nonresidential construction.
And we have noticed an improvement in residential construction.
If past performance holds true that might lead to an improvement in nonresidential construction in 9 or 12 months.
We also take a look at our downstream businesses and they tend to be leading indicators for nonresidential construction.
We look at our backlogs our order entry rates and although they haven't been spiking to the level that we'd like to see them we do see an improvement in those areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you start to look into the I guess backlogs and different type of work that's comprised of is there anything that you're starting to see this cycle as far as the different types of nonresidential construction projects if there's a greater focus whether it be in manufacturing or energy versus infrastructure? Is there anything happening there this cycle relative to last that you see is different? Well I'll just make a couple of general comments.
We see industrial nonconstruction being challenged.
It's -- frankly it's down a little bit.
On the other hand we see some of the commercial on residential construction picking up.
We'll go next to Nate Carruthers with Steel Market Intelligence.
So you were just talking about downstream a little bit.
But I noticed that your rebar fab shipments are actually down 11% year-over-year in the first half.
I guess I was just wondering what was driving that? And if you expect any kind of catch-up in the second half? Well I'll make some general comments and I'll ask Ray Napolitan to jump in if he has anything he'd like to add.
As a general comment the rebar fabrication and rebar markets in the states -- in the United States have been challenged.
Our business in Canada continues to be very strong and we continue to see that growing.
But we -- again rebar imports have been a challenge for the country.
Rebar fabrication along with nonresidential construction is typically lower.
Anything that you want to add Ray? Well this is Ray Napolitan.
One thing I would add is weather has influenced us in the last -- in the first part of the year here.
And shipments have been behind but we're gradually seeing projects break lose and return to schedule.
So weather's probably been the biggest impact of our rebar fabrication.
Okay.
So do you expect I guess that to pick up a bit then in the second half? I think in Jim's notes he mentioned that we expect to see our downstream businesses perform a little bit better in the third quarter.
The next is Curtis Woodworth with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> John you talked a little bit about even going to lower more maintenance CapEx levels in the future and then harvesting a lot of the investments that you've made over the past couple of years.
And it seems like you still have the ability from a liquidity perspective to pursue additional investments.
I know that the additional DRI facility is on the table.
But can you talk a little bit about the M&amp;A strategy? And if we're in a environment where the steel consumption growth rates continue to be low would you look at using more capital to grow the M&amp;A? Let me start by making a comment on the maintenance CapEx.
We did not say that we will lower our maintenance CapEx.
We will keep the maintenance CapEx at the levels that we've always had at that.
We will not in anyway sacrifice the condition of our equipment going forward.
So we will continue to invest in the maintenance that we need to keep our mills in top-notch condition to produce high-quality product to be able to deliver it to our customers on time so that's number one.
Secondly I did comment in my statement that we will continue to plan for the future while we execute today.
And what I meant by that was that we will continue to be opportunistic in our M&amp;A activities.
If we see a great opportunity coming down the pipe we're going to jump at it.
A great example of that would be Skyline just last year.
And we weren't anticipating that coming along.
We didn't really plan for it to be honest with you.
But when the opportunity presented itself we went after it and successfully.
And it's been a great addition to the Nucor family.
We're really happy and proud to have them as part of the Nucor family.
So we'll continue to look at opportunities.
We'll continue to be opportunistic as we approach them.
The point that I do want to stress though is we are focusing on execution.
We've invested $8 billion growing our company.
That's a lot of money.
Our shareholders rightfully so have the expectation that we will convert that investment on their part into higher highs during the inevitable up cycle that we know is coming.
So we are going to continue to look at M&amp;A.
There's really no difference in our strategy except perhaps we'll be a little bit more opportunistic as we look at those things that come across and become available.
But we are going to focus our attention heavily on executing on the investments that we've already made.
We'll go next to Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I really appreciated some of the detail that you gave on a lot of the different projects.
Maybe this isn't the venue but it'll be helpful to try to get a little more color on not just the timing but volumes or potential margin contribution.
I don't know if that's something that you could offer at a later point or if you have some color that you can provide on some of the projects now.
Well we've given some detail on the volume so we are not going to be giving anything out on the margin improvements.
That's information that I'm sure some of our competitors who are probably listening to this call would love to hear.
We're not going to accommodate them.
But we've talked about the SBQ value-added volumes in -- we talked roughly in terms of 1 million tons of additional -- and we want to stress this.
It's very important to stress this isn't just additional capacity in the SBQ business.
There's a plenty of capacity out there and there's plenty more capacity coming online.
Our focus is twofold focusing on adding to our value-added portfolio and on improving the effectiveness and efficiencies of our existing bar mills by shifting by product shift by mixing by changing on mix at those facilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then when you talked about maintenance CapEx or returning to a more maintenance CapEx-like level with the addition of your natural gas investments how does that factor in future DRI investments? Or are you still kind of waiting to decide on a second and further DRI investment? When I talk about maintenance CapEx I'm speaking of specifically of maintenance work.
In terms of future growth of the company we will continue to look very seriously at a second DRI facility at the appropriate time.
Right now our focus is on getting #1 up and running in Louisiana.
I have to clarify that because we refer to it is our #2 DRI facility counting the one in Trinidad.
But all of our focus today is on getting through the cold commissioning the hot commissioning and the startup of a new facility in Louisiana.
When we get that up and running we will take a look at a second DRI facility.
We'll go next to Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a -- hey I read an article that John you were in D.C.
on Tuesday meeting with congressional folks and some folks in commerce.
Just -- what are the -- if you could share some of I guess one who you met with and what was discussed if -- anything you can comment on that going forward on the trade front? Well we will met with a few senators.
We were given the opportunity to spend some time with Senator Sessions.
And we also spent time with Ambassador Froman and Undersecretary Sanchez.
And also later in the afternoon we had the opportunity to meet with Senator Brown.
And I'm not going to go into specific details of the conversation.
We presented our case very clearly.
And I will make the following comment.
We got a great reception by all of the parties involved.
And I'll make the -- I'll take this opportunity to publicly thank them for their time and for listening to our arguments.
Certainly none could make any firm commitments but I will tell you that having made several trips to Washington now my sense is that we are getting -- the message is being better understood and better received each time we go and we speak to the appropriate people.
The message is getting across about the impact that imports are having on our industry.
And we stress each time we go that we are not asking for protection we're not asking for subsidies we're not asking for the government to invest in our companies.
We're asking nothing more than a level playing field on which our teams can compete because we absolutely believe that given a level playing field our team here at Nucor will compete successfully against anyone anywhere in the world.
So that's a little bit of the color of what we talked about that day.
I hope -- and we will continue to work hard to make sure that we continue to gain ground in this arena.
It's extremely important to us.
The current trade laws simply are not getting the job done.
They are reactive.
They are not proactive and we need a more proactive approach to trade laws.
The concept of waiting until serious injury occurs to the industry just simply doesn't make sense and we need to become more productive.
We certainly have the data to do it.
We have information that we gather on the import licensing.
So we know when the tsunami is heading our way.
We know where it's coming from.
We know when it's going to hit.
And it's ridiculous that we don't use that information to take a more proactive approach to dealing with the tsunami that we know is coming.
It's important to our industry and it's important to our teammates here at Nucor.
And frankly it's important to the American worker.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the existing system I guess.
We saw OCTG case brought forward earlier this month.
Are there any other products in particular that are in the works right now where we might see something similar? Well this is why I would say all of the above okay? We are looking carefully at every product that's being imported.
We believe that there are many that fall into the same category that are being brought in illegally.
They're bringing dumped.
They're coming -- they're being subsidized.
And we're gathering data now and we'll take action in a very -- in a variety of products that we focus on.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And maybe just one modeling question on DRI.
You mentioned that there could be some costs associated with the startup in the next quarter.
How should we think about that as we go out the next kind of 12 18 months as per modeling that you ramp and DRI as far as getting a breakeven and moving to profitability and so forth? This is Jim Frias.
First of all it's a pre-operating start-up cost.
The total was roughly $6 million in the second quarter and most of that was related to DRI.
And the final weeks and months of starting up a facility has the most difficult amount of startup cost to predict.
I think they could roughly double.
And they might be a little higher and a little lower but that's the range we they can roughly double.
And in terms of reaching a breakeven at startup it probably depends on how quickly it ramps -- it totally depends on how quickly it ramps up.
The first DRI facility that we started up in Trinidad was profitable I think in the second or third month of operations.
So it ought to be pretty quickly reaching a breakeven profit point in our view if the start doesn't have glitches.
But as John noted in his comments a lot can happen in a startup.
You can find it -- an equipment problem that you didn't know existed until you start running the equipment.
We certainly expect to see some hiccups as we get started.
But we are very confident in our ability to deal with those hiccups.
This isn't our first rodeo when it comes to startups.
And we started up very complex facilities in the past.
We've experienced the hiccups that come along with it.
And at every case we've overcome them and with that a successful operation.
Facility in Louisiana will be no different.
And we'll go next to David Galison with CIBC.
Research Division</strong> So just -- was I correct in understanding that Q3 start-up cost will be around $12 million? Is that what you're thinking? That's a crude estimate but yes.
Research Division</strong> So then would it be fair to assume that the Q3 guidance that was provided for improvements in flat rolled downstream and scrap pricing would be more than modest I guess and then offset by start-up costs? We did not get that specific in our guidance in our thinking.
We think that the operational side -- my guess is if I had to guess the pre-operating cost won't completely offset the improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And we're still looking for -- reaching full production in 3 to 4 months? Well what we've said in the past is that we expect to be at full production by the end of the year and we still feel confident that that can be achieved.
Research Division</strong> And then as you're just -- I guess maybe to help us understand.
As your ramping the facility up will it have an impact on your steel production as you're I guess using this material? Do you have to -- there's some dial up you have to do in order to incorporate this material? How should we think about that? We've been using DRI at a number of our steel mills for several years now.
So there's really no effect in the steel operations to speak of.
It's really going to be all about how quickly we can make the DRI and get it transported and delivered to our facilities.
We'll go next to Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us some sense of the timing of the Encana venture ramp and when you may expect to be fully hedged in your natural gas needs for both DRI and steel? Well that's a great question and we haven't really disclosed that at this point.
And I would just say that it really depends on a number of factors.
One if we continue having the success in volumes coming from each well we drill is one factor.
So as we noted in our comments we've been performing better than we modeled when we first made the investment.
Another factor is the timing of when we build our next DRI facility.
And we haven't made a commitment to when we're going to do that yet.
So I would just say that we could be balanced within probably 3 to 4 years is the range to think of and that would cover steelmaking and DRI.
Research Division</strong> Just the first phase of the DRI when you say you're balanced within a 3- to 4-year time from? Yes.
But I do want to stress Jim that as we look out forward and again without giving the details of the volumes involved and we've said in the past that we will reach a point where we will have enough gas to supply not only all of our steel mill operations but also 2 DRI facilities.
Alternatively we would have enough gas to supply 3 DRI facilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just had one follow-up if I could for you John.
Can you just talk a little bit about the evolution of your automotive business and where you feel like you even gained some traction maybe relative to last year? Certainly.
We continue to grow in automotive not only in our flat-rolled business.
During the -- during my comments I spoke of the ultra-high strength steels that we are now supplying going primarily into the automotive market.
But we've also had a tremendous amount of success with our SBQ product in automotive.
And again you'll hear us talk often about the benefits of one Nucor and our ability to offer our customers a breadth of products under one umbrella.
And automotive is a great example of that.
We've piggybacked both sheet and SBQ off each other many times to gain entry into a new customer and allowed us to grow quicker than we anticipated in automotive.
We have -- obviously automotive is growing strongly in the Southeast.
We have a strong presence in the Southeast.
Automotive is growing rapidly in Mexico.
We have a strong presence through our steel tech operations in Mexico to be able to serve that market.
So we feel really good about where we are in automotive.
And we're happy about that because right now automotive is one of the few bright spots in the marketplace.
We'll go next to Aldo Mazzaferro with Macquarie.
I've got a couple of questions.
First one on the CapEx forecast.
I thought I heard you say that maintenance CapEx was about 20% of the $1.1 billion that you're projecting this year.
Does that imply your CapEx next year is going to fall as low as below depreciation or anything like that? The CapEx at the steel mills could be or -- excuse me the operations could be below the CapEx or below depreciation.
That could be the case yes.
But keep in mind that depreciation tends to be a bit front-weighted in the steel industry so we've been making a lot of investments recently.
So our depreciation number is ramped up pretty high.
Yes.
And so in terms of your debt on your balance sheet it's very low cost debt you wouldn't really have an intention to repay that I would think right? We don't talk about our intentions relative to capital structure.
That's publicly traded instruments as well.
Okay.
And then John one question.
I know you might not want to discuss it too much but could you outline a little bit about your -- about the pros and cons you see in the Tyson [ph] plant possibly from Nucor's point of view whether you'd consider owning that plant or that's just out of the question? I have to say you're very astute.
It's something I do not want to discuss.
And I'm not planning on discussing.
We -- it's a process that's ongoing and it's just not appropriate for me to comment at this time.
We'll go next to Brian Yu with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I got a follow-up question on the natural gas.
And Jim you said it was -- performed better.
In the past I believe the all-in cost number was somewhere around $4 per MMBtu.
And given what you've seen so far can you help us with order of magnitude and how does that change that $4 number so far? Brian we've never said a number so I'm not sure where $4 came from.
You may have backed into it triangulated from things that we've shared.
We perhaps said a number but I think the important thing to think about is the fact that we do have some flexibility of the contract.
And John do you want to speak to that or would you prefer I...
Well either way I'll make some comments.
And we do have a great deal of flexibility in the contract.
So we have some flexibility in the volume and in our drilling.
We do have a threshold level which if the price of gas drops under that threshold point -- price we are not obligated to continue to drill.
And that's a -- that's a level -- it's a level in which we feel very comfortable in being able to get a return even at that threshold level.
So over the course of the drilling program we feel very good about the returns that we're going to getting in this investment and the variability and flexibility we have on drilling.
Anything else that you want to add? Just that we do have also flexibility to drill more wells that we're not committed to if in fact gas prices are higher so we get an upside benefit too.
On the downside we can stop drilling if prices fall low on the upside.
We can drill more at our option in certain areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Second one is with the DRI facility there's more domestic iron ore miners who are talking about making DR-grade pellets.
I was wondering if you guys have experimented with them? Any of the production has come out thus far? And then is it more cost advantageous to try to source it domestically than maybe from the international suppliers? You mean the iron ore specific or...
Research Division</strong> Yes the DR-grade iron ore pellets.
Well we have -- we've had 3 long-term suppliers.
We've added one recently also an international supplier.
We haven't really done much with domestic suppliers at all.
We've got 3 very good suppliers that's been with us for a long time.
We have a great deal of confidence that the fourth supplier will also be a high-quality supplier.
We've done some testing in our facility in Trinidad so we have no need to look further at this point.
And we'll take our final question from Luke Folta with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a couple of quick ones if I could.
I think we've tallied up there being I think about 10 potential OCTG new projects coming in to North America.
Some of them will have steel capacity and most won't.
I was curious to know if Nucor has done anything and even speaking with the -- these new potential customers as far as Nucor's potential ability to source substrate whether it be flat-rolled or bar products to those mills.
It's a great question.
I can tell you that we have every single one of them and we're in discussions with every single one of them.
We're even in some discussions with new suppliers or new production facilities that currently have plans to provide their own substrate.
We're in discussions with them working actively to convince them that advantageous to do business with us and avoid the capital expenditure of building their own smelting facilities.
Research Division</strong> So at this point you say that the prospects are pretty good that Nucor has meaningful participation in those mills? We've got a great commercial team.
We're confident that they're going to be successful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
All right and then second one just relates to the DRI strategy.
So when the -- so understand the DRI plant will in part probably displace some pig iron that you're currently bringing in from overseas or elsewhere.
And then perhaps some of it will displace some prime scrap that you're purchasing domestically.
And I guess I'm just trying to -- I mean those kind of accomplished different things.
And I just wanted to see if I can get a sense of initially at least when we bring the second plant up is that mostly going to be just a pig iron offset? It's really a question going back to our earlier question.
It's a question of flexibility.
What this is giving us is the ability to make those decisions and optimize the feedstock that goes into our furnaces.
We'll take a look at the current pricing situation among all the iron units that are out there and available fine scrap HBI iron pig iron DRI and make the best decision to optimize the mix to reduce our cost going into the furnace.
So we don't have a definitive plan on replacing pig iron or how much DRI will use in place of pig iron or prime scrap.
We'll take a look frankly on a very regular basis at what the best lowest cost mix of iron units is available and that's what we'll use.
And there are no further questions in the queue.
Okay.
I'd like to make some -- Dana I'd like to make some closing comments.
So I'll go ahead and do it.
I guess we're still online.
Go ahead sir.
Okay thank you Dana.
At Nucor we recognize the challenges of a weak economy and the tsunami of imports resulting from ineffective trade policies.
And we will continue to fight to eliminate those challenges.
But I want to stress that in the meantime we will continue to do what Nucor does best.
We will focus on the issues that are within our control.
We will continue to grow profitably.
We will continue to execute better than anyone else in the industry.
And we will ensure that Nucor's best years are still ahead of us.
Thank you all for joining our call today.
Let's keep it going by working together.
Thank you.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Third Quarter of 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir Thank you Keith.
Good afternoon.
This is John Ferriola Nucor's Chief Executive Officer and President.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are other members of Nucor's senior leadership team: Dan Dimicco Nucor's Executive Chairman; Jim Frias our Chief Financial Officer; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Keith Grass Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan and Joe Stratman.
First and most importantly we want to thank everyone on our teams at Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel for working safely working hard and working together to ensure Nucor's success.
The more than 22 000 men and women of the Nucor team are our company's greatest asset and our greatest competitive advantage.
You are the right people doing the right things every day to build our company's long-term earnings power.
Thank you all.
Economic and steel market conditions remain challenging but Nucor is in a position of strength in our industry and we continue to grow stronger every day.
Our team is primed and ready for the inevitable steel industry's cyclical upturn.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to review our third quarter results and financial position.
Following Jim's remarks I will provide an update on our many initiatives focused on profitable growth.
Jim? Thanks John and good afternoon.
Nucor's third quarter 2013 earnings of $0.46 per diluted share increased from the second quarter of 2013 earnings of $0.27 per diluted share.
Results for the just-completed quarter included a onetime charge of $0.03 per share for estimated costs associated with the storage dome collapse at Nucor Steel Louisiana.
Third quarter performance also exceeded our guidance range of between $0.35 to $0.40 per diluted share.
Our guidance was issued on September 17 prior to the dome collapse on September 25.
The third quarter profit improvement was largely due to stronger performance in our sheet mills as we were able to capitalize on opportunities resulting from competitor supply disruptions.
Structural steel results also benefited from Nucor-Yamato's higher third quarter production rates following its planned 17-day outage in the second quarter.
It is also worth noting that our downstream steel product segment which includes joist and decking rebar fabrications and pre-engineered metal buildings has reported profits for 4 of the past 6 quarters.
Nucor's fabricated products teams are delivering profitable performance in a very depressed nonresidential construction market.
A comment about our tax rates which can be confusing due to the impact of profits from noncontrolling interests.
After adjusting all profits belonging to our business partners in the third quarter of 2013 the effective tax rate was 32.2%.
During the quarter we completed a capital raise that both lowered our cost of capital and lengthened our debt maturity profile.
In late July Nucor issued a total of $1 billion in debt $500 million of 4% notes due in 2023 and $500 million of 5.2% notes due in 2043.
This bond offering effectively refinanced $900 million of maturing debt that we retired in the fourth quarter of 2012 and in this year's second quarter.
The weighted average coupon rate of the new debt is 35 basis points lower than the retired debt.
We also lengthened our debt maturity profile.
The new debt has a weighted average maturity term of 20 years versus less than 7 years for the retired debt.
Our next significant debt maturity is not until 2017.
Financial strength remains an important attribute of Nucor's business model.
It is critical to our ability to invest through the cycle and grow stronger during downturns.
Nucor is the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the extremely important competitive advantage of an investment grade credit rating.
At the end of the third quarter our total debt-to-capital ratio was 36%.
Cash short-term investments and restricted cash totaled over $1.7 billion.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn.
This facility was amended and restated following the debt offering with the maturity date extended almost 3 years to August of 2018.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
In the current very difficult steel market conditions Nucor's cash flow generation remains very healthy.
Through the first 9 months of 2013 cash provided by operating activities was $884 million.
2013 capital expenditures are expected to exceed $1.1 billion.
By the end of the current year Nucor will have invested approximately $8 billion of capital since the steel market's last cyclical peak.
Nearly $3 billion of that total is being invested in the 2012 to 2013 period.
These more recent investments both capital spending and acquisitions largely consist of what we view as relatively low-risk and high-return projects focused on strategic objectives to lower our raw material cost and expand our product mix to include more value-added offerings.
Lowering our raw material cost improves our competitive position and profitability throughout the economic cycle.
Expanding our portfolio to include more value-added higher-margin products does the same as well as reducing the competitive pressure we face from imports.
We will complete a number of these strategic projects over the balance of this year and into the first quarter -- or first half of 2014.
For that reason we expect somewhat lower capital expenditures next year.
Spending at our steelmaking raw materials and downstream products businesses should decline to closer to managed type levels.
At the same time our natural gas drilling expenditures will be at contractual levels which we have previously disclosed totaling over $700 million for the 2 -- excuse me $700 million for the 2-year period of 2014 and 2015.
Nucor's natural gas investments are securing a long-term low-cost supply of natural gas sufficient to cover our expected future steelmaking and DRI production needs for more than 20 years.
The performance of wells drilled over the past 2 years has exceeded the projections we used to justify this capital allocation.
That of course translates into lower-than-expected gas costs.
We also expect our natural gas investments to be cash flow positive by late in 2016.
For the fourth quarter Nucor's earnings are expected to be moderately lower than the third quarter as we typically experience lower shipments in this period due to seasonal factors.
Additionally we are planning extended production outages in this year's fourth quarter at several mills in preparation for previously announced capital expansion projects.
These include our Berkeley County South Carolina sheet mill's wide light product expansion our Nucor-Yamato structural mill's sheet-piling product expansion and our Norfolk Nebraska bar mill's SBQ product expansion.
Going forward we see some encouraging signs in the marketplace.
The Metals Service Center Institute September 2013 data released earlier this week reported both very lean inventories and improvement shipments at service centers.
The Architectural Billing Index is in positive indicating an expansion in billings in 12 of the past 13 months.
In its most recent update the American Institute of Architects stated that the trend points to an impending healthy upturn in nonresidential construction activity.
We will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
John? Thanks Jim.
2013 represents the fifth consecutive year of a stagnant global economy and in turn extremely difficult steel market conditions.
Two facts tell the story.
First the U.S.
steel industry's capacity utilization rate remains mired well below 80%.
Second imports of steel into the United States are on pace to again exceed 30 million tons this year or approximately double the 2009 level.
These conditions make no economic sense at all given the fact that American producers are among the lowest-cost producers of steel in the world.
You have heard us say numerous times that the very serious problems depressing our economy and steel markets do have solutions.
The American economy can be reinvigorated if our leaders simply allow us to seize the very significant opportunities open to our country today.
These opportunities include an abundant and low-cost supply of energy infrastructure rebuilding and a resurgent U.S.
manufacturing sector.
Importantly they all offer the vital ingredient required for sustainable economic growth: jobs.
More specific to the steel industry policymakers must address the huge issue of global steel overcapacity.
In China and other countries there are large amounts of steelmaking capacity that is not globally cost efficient but continues to dump steel into the global marketplace as a result of government subsidies.
The Paris-based organization for economic cooperation and development this year estimated Chinese excess steel capacity alone is at least 300 million tons.
As a result of the overcapacity the current structure of the global steel industry is not sustainable.
The discipline of the marketplace must be allowed to exert itself through free and rules-based trade.
Why? That discipline rewards efficient producers with returns adequate to sustain their investments providing value to the market in the form of product improvements and cost efficiencies.
Equally important the discipline of the marketplace punishes inefficient producers who destroys gas capital and other resources.
Until the issue of excess capacity is effectively addressed Nucor will continue to apply our teams can-do attitude and high energy level to the fight for effective and timely enforcement of our nation's trade laws.
If not for illegally dumped and subsidized steel imports we would have more production and jobs throughout both the steel industry and the overall American economy today.
Evidenced by our participation in last month's trade case filed against rebar imports from Turkey and Mexico Nucor stands ready to pursue appropriate legal action when our industry is harmed by violations of U.S.
and international trade laws.
Managing our business with a long-term perspective has been absolutely critical to the success of our company over the past 4-plus decades.
Our long-term strategic focus has allowed us to adapt and expand our business model in response to market challenges and opportunities both operationally and commercially.
With that longer-term view we are bullish on the profitable growth opportunities for both the American economy and Nucor.
As Jim mentioned we will have invested approximately $8 billion of our shareholders' valuable capital from the last cyclical peak in the economy in 2008 through the end of 2013.
These investments have dramatically expanded Nucor's long-term earnings power.
Our more recent investments during this downturn are low risk and high return.
Rather than just adding capacity to an oversupplied market Nucor is reducing its raw material costs and expanding our product mix to include more value-added higher-margin offerings.
Today our unrelenting focus remains on executing our strategic plan and converting our $8 billion of investments into higher highs in profitability once the next cyclical upturn inevitably arrives.
I will now update you on the progress achieved by our team this quarter in executing our growth strategy.
Construction is nearing completion on our 2.5 million metric ton annual capacity direct reduced iron or DRI facility in Louisiana.
However startup of the plant has been delayed by about 3 months until the end of the year.
As we reported in late September a storage dome collapsed at the site.
Most importantly there were no injuries and no environmental impact.
The storage dome was 1 of 3 domes built to store iron ore.
We are certainly disappointed by this event.
However I emphasize 2 very important points.
First this is not an issue whatsoever with the process technology we are using to produce DRI.
Our team in Louisiana is continuing with hot commissioning of the plant.
Second we are addressing the problem and expect to start production by the end of the current quarter.
Startup of our Louisiana DRI plant will be a huge step forward in the implementation of our raw material strategy.
Combining Louisiana's 2.5 million tons capacity with the 2 million tons annual capacity of our existing Trinidad DRI plant will bring us to 2/3 of our long-term goal of controlling 6 million to 7 million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes.
We expect our expanded DRI capacity pad with our long-term and low-cost natural gas supply to be a game changer for Nucor's cost structure for the high-quality iron units we need to compete in higher-value-added sheet SBQ and plate product markets.
In September our South Carolina bar mill successfully started production on its new rod block.
The rod block along with earlier 2013 investments in a coil line and roughing mill stands will allow Nucor Steel South Carolina to produce approximately 450 000 tons per year of rod and bar in coil products.
Our team is very excited to have the opportunity to grow our participation in the attractive and underserved wire rod market in the Southeastern U.S.
region.
We have already received excellent customer feedback regarding the surface quality dimensional tolerances and physical properties of our initial output.
I discussed on our July conference call the successful June startup of production on our Hertford County North Carolina plate mills new normalizing line.
Today I am very pleased to report that the normalizing line is already running at full capacity.
Our 120 000 ton per year capacity normalizing line serves attractive end-use markets such as energy transportation shipbuilding and armor plate.
Complementing our recent investments in a heat treat facility and a vacuum tank degasser Hertford County's value-added plate products annual capacity has now doubled to 240 000 tons.
Steel Technologies' new facility in Monterrey is now fully operational.
A new flat-rolled steel processing and pickling operation has an annual processing capacity in excess of 800 000 tons and offers light gauge slitting heavy gauge slitting blanking cut to length and Eco Pickled Surface EPS pickling.
Our team in Monterrey is very pleased to be running the North American market's largest capacity EPS pickling line an effective and environmentally friendly technology which offers significant advantages over traditional acid pickling.
Customer reaction to the quality of the product they have received has been extremely positive.
This premier processing operation represents a $67 million strategic investment for Steel Technologies in the growing Mexican market.
Our next major project to start up will be the Berkeley County South Carolina sheet mill's wide light project which is scheduled for the first quarter of 2014.
This investment involves an upgrade and modernization of equipment from the top of the caster through the reversing mills.
It will provide Berkeley the capability to produce wider and lighter gauged sheet steel.
Berkeley's new product offerings will include 72-inch wide hot rolled 72-inch wide hot rolled pickled and oiled 72-inch wide cold rolled and gauges as thin as 0.042 inch.
These expanded capabilities will provide profitable opportunities to move up the value chain in agricultural pipe and tube industrial equipment heavy truck and automotive high-strength and ultra-high-strength applications.
Customers are already inquiring about placing orders for these new products soon to enter production.
There is no question that steel market conditions remain frustratingly challenging.
Nevertheless these are exciting times for Nucor as our company grows stronger and stronger.
A stronger Nucor is one that is continually improving its capability to take care of all of our customers the people who buy and use our products our teammates and our shareholders.
In closing I want to again thank everyone on the Nucor team for working safely working hard and working together to build a stronger Nucor.
Thank you and please keep it going.
We would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from the line of Michelle Applebaum.
I have 3 but I only get 2 right? We'll start with 2 and maybe you can come back later in the call.
Yes yes yes.
So right now I think something people are talking about -- a macro question.
The sheet industry appears to be changing the approach on how you quote contracts and there has been a lot of controversy over the CRU minus kind of discount with CRU sort of being the standard I guess index.
Can you talk about one what impact it's going to have on the sheet business next year? Two how are the contracts coming for next year? And three what percentage you would like to have under contract for the coming year? That's still kind of one question.
It is.
It is.
Okay we'll handle it as one question.
Well I will speak for Nucor.
I won't speak for the rest of the industry in terms of contract pricing.
But as we talk about the CRU and the CRU minus we at Nucor have recognized that the returns that have been generated by that pricing mechanism were not compensating us for the quality the service the on-time delivery that we provide to our customers every day.
So we felt that it was necessary to change that and we're in the process of changing it as we speak to our customers today.
As far as how is it being received well certainly it's a little challenging but our customers overall understand the need to have a pricing mechanism in place that allows for a sustainable long-term company.
So it's been a little bit challenging but it's being received as we move along.
Today our contracts are going a little slower than normal but we are making progress and our customers seem to be accepting the concept of needing a change.
In terms of what percent that we would be shooting for in 2014 as always it kind of depends on where we end up with the pricing and what the contracts look like.
Typically we like a mix that's somewhere between 40% to 60% contract and with the rest remaining in spot.
There's times when spot can really serve us well.
For example in the last quarter our ability to take advantage of some of these supply disruptions that occurred in the sheet market resulted in a very good quarter for us.
And I want to thank our commercial team for being on top of that and taking advantage of that opportunity and doing very very well in capitalizing upon it.
So we would be looking for somewhere maybe around 50% Michelle but we'll go 10% or 15% either side of 50% depending upon what the contracts look like.
You didn't say what you were replacing the CRU with? Are you just doing it on the price basis entirely? Well you're absolutely correct.
We did not say it okay.
And that is something that we discuss with our customers and I'm not going to get into it here other than to say that we are moving away from a CRU minus pricing mechanism or for that matter any index-based minus pricing mechanism.
Okay.
Well I wasn't a fan of that so I'd say here here it's a good choice and I hope the market supports it.
My second question is so recently we saw the closure of the -- I think it's 0.5 million ton a year EVRAZ Claymont Delaware plate mill.
Is that a facility that overlaps with your product mix? And what kind of impact do you think it'll have on you? And do you think it could potentially be a consolidation target for you? Again one question.
You're getting better and better at this Michelle.
Well trained.
Well let me make a couple of comments about the closing at Claymont in terms of how it will impact our business.
Clearly they are a -- they tend to provide a thicker product to the market.
We go from 1 to 2 inch.
2 inch is our maximum thickness that we can offer the market.
That being said -- excuse me 3 inches what we can offer the market.
That being said there are some overlaps on the grades that we produce and we have seen an incremental pickup in inquiries and order entry as result of them closing.
Obviously there's -- we serve a similar geographical territory.
I would also take the opportunity to give a plug to our plate mills.
Hertford County which serves a similar area has the additional benefit of offering normalized and heat-treated product as we mentioned.
I think you've mentioned that.
Yes.
I mean I'm probably going to mention it a few more times before the call is over because we're really proud of that fact and it has been very very instrumental in supporting our other plate business.
It gives us the ability to compete in markets with those other competitors who can offer similar products.
So it's really expanded the grades that we can offer to the marketplace.
And we'll go next to the line of Luke Folta.
Research Division</strong> My question I -- in just looking at this whole Gulf Coast chemicals expansion that we're seeing we're starting to see some pretty major stuff move forward.
If you look -- I mean it's estimated over the next few years that we could see something like $50 billion plus of spending on ethylene plants and other chemical-type jobs and you've got LNG export terminal layered in on top of that.
I guess when I look at those numbers they'll seem like pretty massive numbers to me and all that stuff's made -- it's very steel intensive.
And I'm just -- I guess my question is is there any way you can help us connect the dots in terms of that level of spending? What could that mean for Nucor in terms of your addressable market? Are you selling the right products to the -- that would go into this stuff? Anything that could help connect those dots would be very helpful.
Well you've heard us mention several times over the last several years of our participation in the energy-based markets.
That was a target we had several years ago.
We recognized that there was going to be an improvement in the energy market and we decided probably about 5 or 7 years ago to be a very active participant in that market.
And towards that end we've worked hard to develop new grades that serve the energy market well and we've grown tremendously in that market.
Today along with automotive energy as you know energy and automotive are 2 of the strong markets out there today and we have a very strong participation in both.
As far as energy goes I would say that in addition to having gone over the last 5 to 7 years to improve our participation we continue to develop new grades on our plate business to better serve that market and get a larger participation in that market.
Joe anything in particular you would like to add in terms of grades that we're working on? We have the degassing project as well as the heat normalizing in the Q&amp;T heat-free [ph] line have been focused on high-strength steels for construction industry and very heavily focused on the energy sector where our steels now can go into the offshore oil platforms as well as the heavy tank industry for tank farms for holding oils and gases as well as the construction of those plants.
So that has been a targeted focus of some of the upgrades that we have made at the Hertford plant.
And it's shown very good progress and good orders already.
So we're looking forward to those of days Luke when all that comes online.
Joe I would just add to that that we Nucor are the supplier of choice for tubulars because of our outstanding gauge control.
Our gauge control was second to none and that's important to the tubers.
So we have a very strong participation in that market also.
And when you think about our -- the location of our facilities we're able to serve them very well with barge delivery and with rail.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the sales into those kind of mega-type projects do they tend to happen more through direct -- big direct contracts in that sense? Or is that something that you just kind of -- it flows down through distribution and some of the component manufacturers and things like that? How do we -- how should we expect that to flow through? Well actually both.
It flows both ways.
Obviously a lot goes through our service centers.
But we also have a team that focuses specifically on the energy market in terms of large projects in terms of the construction of the projects in terms of construction of the pipelines carrying the energy products.
So it's really both ways Luke.
We have a team focused on direct sales and we obviously sell a lot into that through our service centers.
And we'll go next to the line of Sohail Tharani.
Research Division</strong> John I think you mentioned that natural gas investments $700 million.
Is it 2014 and '15 combined? Or is it each year $700 million? That was a combined number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just want to understand this is -- this will be enough gas for running 2 DRI plus all the gas you use.
What is your -- how are you thinking in terms of the second year at plant? And if it gets delayed will you be able to reduce the investment or the amount of gas you extract or you will be able to sell it into the open market? Well let me start by making a couple of comments.
First of all at the peak of our gas drilling operations we would be able to deliver enough gas for 2 of our DRI facilities.
All of our steel mills would still have surplus gas.
Secondly you mentioned about the start of construction on the second DRI facility.
I mentioned during the last call that we will be addressing that.
We want to get the first one up and running.
And then we will take a look at what we want to do with the second facility.
I can tell you there's been an awful lot of interest in the marketplace on purchasing DRI from us and having a facility that would run on a merchant basis.
But one thing I do want to stress right away the way that you asked the questions kind of implied that we might delay the decision of the second DRI plant based upon events that were taking place today in Louisiana with the dome.
And that is absolutely categorically not the case.
It has nothing to do with it.
This is a short-term issue with the dome.
We're already well into a work-around to get around the issue.
This has nothing to do with the technology.
It's simply an issue with the raw material transportation.
And I think I mentioned on the last conference call that this is extremely complex because of the size of it.
The material handling is an extremely complex system and we actually expected a few hiccups.
Now this is a bigger road bump than we were hoping for but in typical Nucor way we're facing it head-on and we're resolving it.
So there's no impact on long-term -- on long-term strategy relative to DRI as a result of the dome.
Research Division</strong> And I certainly didn't imply that -- regarding about the dome.
I understand the dome is just a storage facility that has nothing to do with your process and project.
The second question is that if I look at your joist and deck volume versus the fabricated product volume for fabricated concrete reinforced steel volume they're sort of diverging from each other.
The joist and deck is up 10% to 12% to 14% and the rebar fabricated products is down 11%.
I just want to understand are these catering to different markets or is there something else going on over here? Ray why don't you field that one? Yes sure John.
Well the rebar fabrication market and the joist and deck market do cater to somewhat different markets.
And I would say that there are just some different dynamic markets involved.
And as we mentioned the last quarter the weather still continues to impact rebar fabrication shipments just a little bit as they did the first 2 quarters of the year.
Research Division</strong> Does it have to do -- anything to do with the private construction and public construction? Or that's not the case? He asked the question about is it tied to private versus public construction.
Well the answer is yes there is some tied to -- there is more tied to public construction on the rebar fabrication side.
And joist and deck tends to be more towards private construction yes sir.
One more comment that I'd like to make since you're asking about rebars.
I kind of alluded to it in the prepared comments.
But the imports of rebar over the last quarter have been a major issue for our company and for our country.
And that has impacted our business on the rebar side also.
I would point out and maybe just reinforce what Jim said during his comments kudos to the entire product team.
Despite the challenging nonresidential construction market that we've lived through they have been profitable 5 out of the last 6 quarters.
And when I talk about being excited about Nucor's future and I think about the fact that nonresidential construction is at its lowest point in 30 to 40 years and despite that our teams have found a way to remain profitable 5 out of the last 6 quarters I get very excited about what we will be doing when the nonresidential construction market inevitably returns.
And we'll take our next question from Timna Tanners.
Research Division</strong> I was happy to hear some more detail on the different projects.
Some of the other steel mills have been talking quite detailed.
They're giving a lot of detail I guess on their cost savings or their initiatives benefits or payback times.
So this is a step in that direction.
But I guess can you talk a little bit more about how we might think about the contribution of some of these into next year? How do we quantify like the incremental benefit whether it be cost or prices or volume? Well Timna typically when we announce projects we give a capital budget.
And I think you have a feel for what type of hurdle rates we think about.
We typically don't break out details of the returns of each project.
But I think you can make a rational estimation based on the cost of the projects themselves.
And Timna I would ask you to think about the fact that in addition as you mentioned all projects involve both cost mitigation and the offering of new products to the marketplace.
So it's really in many cases we have projects going on that will give us a double benefit.
So as Jim said we do have a certain hurdle rate and in some of our projects that we're working today and that we mentioned earlier today we will see the benefit from both sides of that equation.
Research Division</strong> Into 2014 it sound like then we'll start to see some of that? Yes.
As we said in Berkeley a wide light project will start in the first quarter.
The NYS projects will start sometime around mid of next year offering the 3 new piling sections for the market.
That's a really exciting project.
So we see a lot of them coming to fruition in the early part of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
My question I guess the next one that would be the second one is really to delve a little bit further into this idea of value-add and the investments you've made whether it be vacuum degassers or the wide light project.
And it's a question on the auto industry.
And we've written something about maybe the tables turning even a little bit toward the steelmakers this next year.
And I know Nucor has been moving toward supplying more auto and I just wondered if you can give us an update to the extent possible on your progress there? Well we continue to make progress there and offering the next generation of advanced high-strength steels.
We're committed to working with our automotive customers to provide a great product.
We recognize the challenge they're facing as a result of the CAFE requirements that will be coming into effect probably in 2018 and fully in 2025.
So we've been working and I've mentioned a few times the high-strength and ultra high-strength product that we've been developing.
They are in the marketplace today and they're doing very very well.
I would also say that without giving any specifics as to the customers or the contracts that we're working under we have ongoing automotive exposed steel trials as we speak and we are quite optimistic about the outcome of those trials.
And we'll take our next question from Tony Rizzuto.
Research Division</strong> With all of the exciting investments you've got on the come can you guys quantify the start-up costs that we're likely going to see in the fourth quarter and into 2014? Can you talk about that a little bit? And I've got one more question too.
Yes I'll take that.
In the second quarter our pre-operating start-up costs were around $6 million.
In the third quarter they were in the neighborhood of $11 million and we're forecasting the fourth quarter to be just over $13 million.
We would expect that they would probably level off in the first quarter and maybe even fall off a bit with the DRI plant coming fully on-stream and then decline from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So first quarter.
.
.
There's probably going to be some incremental pre-operating start-up costs with the wide light project and the beam project as well.
But they will be short term.
They won't be long-term periods.
So last for maybe a quarter each as they go through the start-ups.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then also your performance turned out to be much better than you guys guided in the middle of September.
And I was wondering was there a major area of variance or was there an acceleration of demand? I was wondering if you could maybe elaborate on that a little bit.
Well we did see some incremental demand improvement in the sheet market but it was incremental.
Really what we saw was more of an issue of disruption in the supply.
And as I mentioned earlier our commercial team just did an outstanding job of capitalizing on that opportunity and most of the improvement that you see is a result of our improvement on the sheet side of the business during the quarter.
And Tony I would just say that our divisions helped us come up with our forecast.
And our sheet mills were probably a little conservative in their forecast for September and they came in a little better than they thought they would.
And that was the biggest driver.
Research Division</strong> When you guys look -- you mentioned about the investment with wider width at Berkeley.
Is that going to be going towards the automotive industry in terms of the ultralight gauges? Or was -- I heard other markets being mentioned.
I don't know if I heard automotive there.
No it will be going to several markets.
We kind of ran through them.
It will be certainly automotive agricultural heavy truck industrial applications white goods would be just some other ones that I would mention.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I kind of slipped that third question there.
I appreciate it.
That's okay.
The key thing to note on that is that the items that we kind of ran off there all involve high-strength or ultra high-strength applications which is critical and that's one of the key things we're focusing on out of Berkeley and our other sheet mills.
I mean let me add just a couple more.
[indiscernible] allows us to give more [indiscernible] out of a coil.
So they have a lot of our customers.
And secondly we're able to go to a lot lighter hot band than we've ever been able to go to before.
So there's a lot of applications in that lighter hot band that we'll be able to facilitate more so than we ever have.
And we'll take our next question from Evan Kurtz.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the potential for SBQ consolidation.
I know you guys have been kind of pushing over the past few years here to move into higher and more premium applications for SBQ.
I know there's a bunch of assets that are kind of being stripped out of a competitor of yours over the next year here that are already towards the very high end.
There are 6 kind of major producers out there.
Do you see any sort of potential? Is that something that you're interested in? Well as always we're not going to make any direct comments other than to say that we are always opportunistic.
If we see the right opportunity at the right price we'll move on it.
And you're right we have been focusing in our SBQ business on higher and higher valued opportunity -- applications.
On Nebraska we've been focusing on automotive with primary axle camshafts gearing suspension and steering components.
In Memphis crankshafts hubs several other products.
Bottom line is when you look at our SBQ products we recognize that there is some consolidation occurring but there's also some new SBQ competition coming online.
And that's why our team are focused on moving up and up on the value chain.
Jim is there anything that you'd want to add to that? I'd just add that the investments that we've been making are geared primarily toward improving our quality of the project that we're doing in Nebraska as we speak is installing a new hot sheer cold sheer packaging material and quality instrumentation that allows us to move up the value chain and produce higher-quality products.
While we're doing these projects we are also doing a number of trials with a number of Tier 1 and Tier 2 automotive suppliers to get qualified to produce automotive-grade material.
And as we go through these qualifications we're setting ourselves up to participate more in the automotive industry going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And maybe just one on rebar.
The trade case has kind of been out there for a month or so for now.
I know there is a tiny price increase that was announced mostly just to keep up with the scrap it seems like.
But are you noticing any sort of change in behavior from buyers on the rebar side? Or do you feel like we're getting close to some sort of inflection here? I don't think we've noticed a major change in the buying habits of the customers.
Obviously whenever we begin trade action the countries that are importing the product get nervous.
We see a slight reduction in the amount of imports coming in.
But other than that there's been no major change in the buying habits.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Lane.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 DRI-related questions.
First it seems as though your increased DRI production will allow you greater flexibility with regard to the basket of feedstocks you can apply to your furnaces.
It will also allow you to take advantage of arbitrage opportunities associated with feedstock costs when DRI pig iron and high-grade scrap prices change relative to each other.
Once you're first Louisiana DRI facility is online how different will your average feedstock basket look relative to its current composition? Well it certainly will include more DRI.
You answered the question very well yourself in asking the question.
What it really does is give us a tremendous amount of flexibility.
So every month we'll go out and we'll take a look at the various commodities.
We'll look at where we are with DRI.
We'll look at the HBI pricing.
We'll look at pig iron pricing.
We'll look at prime scrap obsolete scrap.
And based upon that we will adjust the basket as you call it the basket or the recipe we would refer to it as on almost a monthly basis and do what gives us the best cost advantage each month.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then secondly given DRI's high iron content that can be used as a supplement to lower-grade scrap or a replacement for higher-grade scrap in the melt how will your increased DRI production impact the quantity of scrap and the quality of scrap you purchase? And will it allow you to generate cost savings by making purchases further down the quality spectrum with regard to scrap as you apply more DRI? Obviously as we use more DRI we can reduce the amount of prime scrap that we use in the mix.
But again we'll take a look at that on a basket-by-basket case and make the right decisions predicated upon the pricing of the various commodities.
But as a general statement yes we've invested a lot in our DRI facility.
And we've invested in our steel mills and their ability to better feed DRI into the furnaces do it more effectively do it quicker.
So we will be using a lot of DRI as we move forward.
And we'll take our next question from Aldo Mazzaferro.
I had a question on the capital spending budget maybe for Jim here.
Over the last calls or 1 or 2 calls you've sometimes said that you might push your CapEx down to -- closer to the sustaining and maintenance level and I think you said the same today.
Once on a call you estimated that out of your $1.1 billion only about 20% was actually sustaining capital.
So I guess my question is where does that sustaining capital number lie? Is it somewhere between your depreciation and maybe the $200 million? Or is it -- would it be likely to be under depreciation? So this question on the amount that we would view as sustainable is probably as well addressed to John as I.
But I would say it's in the $300 million to $400 million per year range.
John? I would agree with that.
We don't use a hard and fast formula compared to depreciation.
We take a look at where we are in the cycle of maintenance and make a decision that's best to keep our facilities in perfect operating condition and be able to provide a great quality product to our customers.
So Aldo if we think about 2014 and certainly to say a final number that we'll have that baseload number of $300 million to $400 million.
We'll have some carryover on the finishing thin and wide and some of the other big projects that are underway.
And then we'll have the gas investment a significant portion of that $700 million over 2 years that we'll be spending.
So it will probably approach $1 billion but be below $1 billion would be my thinking right now.
But again we'll go to our Board of Directors in December with a final budget and then we'll come back in January for that conference call and we'll give you our budget target for 2014 at that time.
Great.
So that gas spending is kind of front-end loaded a little bit then too? Yes in a sense that's how we almost think about it is we're prepaying for gas by paying the drilling costs of getting access to it in the ground.
And when we had an earlier question about all of the evolution of the chemical industry that's coming in the Gulf Coast area that's another factor that we think about.
And we also think there is a big trend of power plants using gas.
It's hard to predict what future gas prices are going to be but they do have the potential to go back up into a $6 or $7 range.
And we'll have a very very nice competitive advantage with our locked-in cost of gas for a number of decades.
And just a very quick second question.
Can you say how long and what the capital cost might be for the DRI in second investment and how long the construction phase would be and what you might spend on that? Well as we've mentioned several times we've invested the infrastructure that we have as part of the project.
The first DRI will also cover the second DRI facility.
So the investment would be somewhat less.
So we would probably put it in the neighborhood of about $550 million to $600 million just as an estimate.
We haven't really begun work on that at this time.
And the construction time would be a little bit less not significantly less.
Obviously the furnace is the big item being installed and that would of course be about the same length of time.
So it might a little bit shorter and it will be a little bit less expensive.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Parr.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious if you could give a little more color on the natural gas drilling activity.
How many wells do you expect to complete this year? And also you've talked about cost coming being a positive surprise.
Any color around that would be helpful.
And then lastly if you could just give us an update on the plan to monetize some of the midstream assets and would be curious in terms of timing on that.
Well let's start with the number of wells that we are currently drilling.
Keith you want to take that please? Yes.
We're in the range of 200 wells right now and we'll probably finish up the year somewhere in the range of 240 250 somewhere in that range in terms of actual number of wells.
And I'm not sure -- I can't remember exactly what the next question was.
Yes the second question was the timing on the midstream that we've mentioned in the past that it's possible that we would end up flipping the midstream assets.
And I think that timeframe was...
Yes [indiscernible] time and it's probably in the 2016 2017 time period.
I would say...
I would answer this.
We're on track with the original plan and the layout for that midstream those assets to build out and that was the general time frame I think we indicated early on and we have really no significant barriers from that right now.
Research Division</strong> I guess just the other thought was just to try to get some more color around the cost that you're -- the cost of completion or the underlying cost of the actual operating wells in terms of Mcf or however you'd like to give additional color on that.
We still view that as confidential.
And as I mentioned I've mentioned a number of times in some of the venues I've been in there will be a point in time where we have enough volume that we have to make full SEC disclosures like an E&amp;P company and then you'll see all that detail.
But until that time we'd like to keep that to ourselves.
We think it's valuable information.
What we mentioned during the script was that the wells the gas that we are getting out of the wells the rate that we were being able to drill and get gas out of the wells is greater than what put into the initial performance.
And I've said that it's worth noting that year to date it's having a small positive impact on our income statement.
So our costs have been below the market price on average so far this year.
And we'll go next to the line of Matthew Murphy.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on DRI.
Does the delay with the storage dome -- you talked about you're still hot commissioning the process.
Does that add some confidence on how quick you can ramp it up since you've got a bit more time with the process side? It does.
We will have more time to do a more thorough process hot commissioning.
So yes I would say that it will reduce the overall startup time.
The DRI process as a general statement however is kind of an on-off thing.
It starts up and it runs or it doesn't start up.
So we're highly confident that when we're ready to start at the end of the year we overcome this issue with material handling we will have a relatively quick startup.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just on the purchasing for inputs next year do you have to commit to any pig supply to make sure you've got it if there are any hiccups? Or how short order can you get material if you need it? We have everything laid out.
We have 4 good suppliers all of which are proven suppliers.
We see no problems at all with the supply of raw materials.
And we don't feel like we're going to have to take material and store it some place because of this issue.
We think we're fine in that regard.
And we'll take a quick follow-up from Michelle Applebaum.
Can you remind me what live permits do you have going at your Louisiana site what kind of facilities are you currently permitted to build and when do these permits run out? Let's see.
We -- you want to take that one? Yes.
Right now we're permitted to build 2 DRI plants.
We're not worried.
We started on them.
On the second DRI plant I can't remember the exact -- but it's a matter of many months from now -- [indiscernible] to say whether we're going to start that permit will still be valid.
So you're not permitted to build a steel mill anymore or are you? We have a permit that's still in place for a blast furnace operation with a coke ovens at that facility.
We've never had a permit for a steel mill.
Sorry I misspoke.
Okay and how long does it [Audio Gap] I think she dropped accidentally but I'm guessing she's going to ask how long does the blast furnace permit stay live? We're not going to get into specifics Michelle if that's what you're asking.
I'm not sure if you're still on the line.
But we won't get into specifics of the length of time of the blast furnace permit.
And we'll take our last question from Sohail Tharani.
Research Division</strong> Jim at this time you are reporting an earning in the equity in the consolidated affiliates.
Is that from the Italian operation? It's a net [ph] of a couple of operations that are in there.
But a big part of it is NuMit and the performance in our joint venture with Mitsui.
This chip [ph] technology business has shown continual improvement and it's gotten to be big enough that it's offset the losses we were experiencing in our Italian operations.
And it appears we have no further questions in queue at this time.
I'll now turn the program back over to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Thank you Keith.
Let me close by again by saying thank you.
Thank you all on the call for your interest in Nucor.
Thank you for our shareholders for your continued support.
Thank you to our customers for your business.
And mostly -- most importantly thank you to our teammates for what you do every day and thank you for doing it safely.
Have a great day.
Thanks for your interest in Nucor.
This concludes today's program.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect at any time.
Good day and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2013 earnings call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon.
This is John Ferriola Nucor's Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are Nucor's Executive Vice President Jim Frias our Chief Financial Officer; Jim Darsey responsible for our bar mill Cold Finish and Fastener businesses; Keith Grass responsible for our scrap business and energy investments; Ladd Hall responsible for our Sheet Mill and Direct Reduced Iron facilities; Ray Napolitan responsible for our Fabricated Construction Product businesses; and Joe Stratman responsible for our beam mills plate mills sheet piling and business development work.
First and most importantly we want to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for your excellent work taking care of all of our customers.
Each and every day the more than 22 000 men and women of the Nucor team are building a stronger Nucor by working safely working smart and working together as has been the case since our company was founded nearly 5 decades ago.
Nucor's employees the right people are our company's greatest asset and our greatest competitive advantage.
Throughout Nucor our teammates have been working hard to grow long-term earnings power.
We have invested significant capital in recent years that we expect to convert into higher highs in profits over is the next upcycle.
Two key drivers to the anticipated profit growth will be reducing our raw materials cost and expanding our product mix to include more value-added higher-margin offerings.
In the fourth quarter we reached a number of significant milestones implementing these organic growth initiatives.
I will discuss these achievements after our CFO Jim Frias reviews our fourth quarter results and financial position.
Jim? Thanks John and good afternoon.
Fourth quarter 2013 earnings of $0.53 per diluted share included favorable out-of-period tax adjustments totaling $0.07 per diluted share.
A lower-than-expected LIFO charge also benefited earnings by about $0.03 per share.
Excluding these items our results exceeded our guidance range of between $0.35 to $0.40 per share by approximately $0.03 per diluted share.
This performance largely resulted from better-than-expected December profitability at our sheet and plate mills.
Nucor continues to benefit from its position as North America's most diversified manufacturer of steel and steel products.
A comment about our tax rates can be confusing due to the impact of profits from noncontrolling interests.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners and the out-of-period tax adjustment the effective tax rate was 31% for the fourth quarter and 33% for the full year of 2013.
Balance sheet strength remains an important attribute of Nucor's business model.
Nucor is the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the extremely important competitive advantage of an investment-grade credit rating.
Our financial strength allows us to invest aggressively during the downturn to grow our long-term earnings power.
At the end of 2013 Nucor's total debt-to-capital ratio was 36%.
Cash short-term investments and restricted cash totaled $1.5 billion.
For[ph] Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and it does not mature until August 2018.
We have no commercial paper outstanding and our next significant debt maturity is not until 2017.
Nucor's cash flow generation remained very healthy in 2013's challenging steel market conditions.
Cash provided by operating activities last year was approximately $1.1 billion.
Our balance sheet liquidity and cash flow have allowed us to grow stronger during the current downturn.
We have invested aggressively for profitable growth.
2013 capital expenditures exceeded $1.2 billion that was more than double last year's depreciation expense of $536 million.
Since the last cyclical peak reached in 2008 Nucor has invested $8 billion in our businesses $4.4 billion of capital spending and $3.6 billion of acquisitions.
This broad range of strategic investments enhances Nucor's key competitive strengths.
Those include a low-cost production situation a diversified product mix and market leadership.
We have posted a slide package on our website that summarizes some of our major growth initiatives implemented during the current downturn.
In his remarks John Ferriola will provide updates on some of our more current projects.
With these investments the Nucor team is preparing for the inevitable steel industry's cyclical upturn.
Our unrelenting focus remains on realizing attractive returns on Nucor's invested capital which now exceeds $9 billion at the end of 2013.
We expect to build upon Nucor's long tradition of being an effective steward of shareholders valuable capital.
Return on invested capital for Nucor averaged 15.5% over the 10-year period ended in 2013.
That 10-year period includes the most recent 5 years of the current downcycle as well as the 5-year upcycle that ended in 2008.
It is interesting to note that Nucor's return on invested capital averaged 25.5% during that last upcycle in the steel business.
We expect significantly lower capital expenditures for 2014 as the majority of our growth projects will be completed in the first half of this year.
Also we recently announced the joint decision with our natural gas working interest investment partner Encana to temporarily suspend drilling new wells until there is a sustainable improvement in natural gas pricing.
Cessation of drilling will reduce Nucor's 2014 capital spending by about $400 million.
As a result we estimate our 2014 capital spending will be approximately $600 million.
The suspension should significantly improve our free cash flow position this year.
It also highlights the strong relationship we enjoy with Encana and how flexibly this investment is functioning to provide Nucor a capital-efficient hedge against high natural gas prices.
For the first quarter 2014 Nucor's earnings are expected to be similar to the fourth quarter level excluding the tax adjustment.
Our steel mills will benefit from having no major planned outages and we expect improved performance at our Louisiana DRI facility.
However these positive factors are likely to be largely offset by this year's unusually harsh winter weather exacerbating the typical seasonal first quarter slowdown in our construction-related businesses on both the fabrication side and the steel mill side.
Overall the outlook continues to be tempered by excess global steel capacity and the threat of steel illegally dumped into the United States.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
Our team is committed to executing on the opportunities we see ahead to reward Nucor shareholders with very attractive long-term returns on their valuable capital invested in our company.
Our strong focus on growing long-term earnings shareholder value is evidenced by Nucor's dividend record 41 consecutive years of increased base cash dividends paid to our shareholders effective with the upcoming quarterly payment on February 11 2014.
John? Thanks Jim.
Nucor's fourth quarter of 2013 performance was noteworthy for several important reasons.
Our teammates delivered solid profitability in what are still very challenging markets.
They achieved this while undertaking significant planned downtime for major capital projects at several of our larger steel mills.
Those outages included: 4 weeks at our Nucor Steel Berkeley sheet mill; 2 weeks at our Nucor-Yamato structural steel mill; and 4 weeks at our Nebraska bar mill.
We also absorbed the costs of starting production at our new Direct Reduced Iron or DRI plant in Louisiana.
Further I am pleased to report a number of impressive achievements in the ongoing implementation of our capital projects.
These initiatives grow Nucor's long-term earnings power by providing us new higher-margin product offerings cost reductions and quality improvements.
Our Nucor Steel Louisiana team began producing DRI on December 24.
Within the first 24 hours of operation output quality reached the world-class levels consistently achieved by our DRI plant in Trinidad that has been running since 2006.
In fact Louisiana's carbon content has recently exceeded Trinidad's best-in-class performance.
Most importantly the initial output from the Louisiana plant has performed very well at the Nucor mills that have consumed it.
I would like to thank everyone on our team in Louisiana for their hard work and ongoing commitment to getting the job done.
The startup of the Louisiana DRI plant is a huge step forward in the implementation of our raw material strategy.
We view our expanded DRI capacity added with our low-cost and long-term natural gas supply to be a game changer to Nucor's cost structure for the highly -- high-quality iron units we need to expand our share of the higher-value-added sheet SBQ bar and plate markets.
It is also a game changer by improving Nucor's operating flexibility with a significantly shorter Nucor supply chain for high-quality iron users.
As Jim mentioned in December we announced agreement with Encana to temporarily suspend the drilling for new natural gas wells given the current gas price expectations for 2014.
The drilling pause demonstrates the flexibility of our partnership to adapt to changing natural gas market conditions.
This flexibility is allowing us to make the best capital allocation decisions for the current natural gas price environment.
Suspending drilling in today's gas markets is a win-win situation for Nucor.
By the middle of 2014 when all in-process wells are completed we will have just over 300 producing wells providing a full hedge to our Louisiana DRI plant's expected consumption into 2015.
The cost structure of our drilled wells is such that they generate a modest positive return in 2013's low natural gas pricing environment.
But with the gas requirements of the Louisiana facility hedged into next year it is not a wise decision to use our valuable capital to invest more dollars in drilling for modest returns.
At the same time we retain a valuable option to resume drilling in a higher natural gas pricing environment where drilling provides an attractive return on our investment and we need to continue to hedge our gas consumption.
Nucor and Encana will jointly decide when the time is right to resume drilling new wells.
In December Nucor Steel Berkeley completed the installation of all caster and hot mill upgrades for its wide array of projects.
This nearly $100 million investment provides Berkeley with the capability to produce wider and lighter gauge sheet steel.
New product offerings will include 72-inch wide hot-rolled pickle and oil 72-inch wide cold-rolled and gauges as thin as 0.042 inches.
The expanded product portfolio will allow Nucor to move up the value chain in agricultural automotive heavy equipment machinery and pipe and tube applications.
On January 21 our Berkeley team made history as the first Nucor flat-rolled mill to produce 72-inch wide coils.
This successful startup is timely as there is already strong customer interest in our new wider and lighter products.
During the fourth quarter our bar mill group achieved major progress implementing key components of its strategy to grow Nucor's participation in higher-margin SBQ products.
Expanded SBQ product breadth will support profitable growth for Nucor in energy automotive heavy equipment as well as other markets.
Our Nebraska mill successfully started up its upgraded rolling mill that includes new shears and straightening equipment.
A significant improvement in lane control and quality of shear cuts already being experienced will allow us to move up the value chain in SBQ markets.
It also includes our cost structure as a result of gains in rolling mill yields.
In 2015 Nebraska will complete its product expansion program with an upgraded electrical arc furnace power system and the addition of a fifth caster strand[ph].
Our Memphis Tennessee team has completed the installation and commissioning of a new quality assurance line which allows us to provide engineered bars for the most demanding applications.
I would also like to congratulate and thank the Memphis team on achieving record earnings in 2013.
Consistent with the Nucor culture the team's can-do attitude and high-energy level has allowed them to overcome many obstacles since their production startup at the onset of the current Great Recession in September of 2008.
The potential for profitable growth at Memphis in the years ahead is sizable and very exciting.
Our Nucor Steel Hertford County plate mill continues to successfully execute our strategy to expand Nucor's participation in value-added plate markets.
During the downturn Hertford County has invested in a heat treat facility a vacuum tank degasser and a normalizing line.
These investments are already paying off.
During the fourth quarter Hertford achieved record heat treat shipments.
Our Hertford team also received approval to produce naval armor and API plate for energy markets.
Our Nucor-Yamato structural mill is on schedule for a mid-2014 startup of an approximately $115 million project to expand its sheet piling production capabilities.
These offerings will increase the single sheet piling widths by 22% and provide a lighter stronger product resulting in lower installed cost.
This initiative both moves Nucor-Yamato up the value-added chain in the piling business and allows us to realize more synergies from our highly successful 2012 acquisition of piling distributor Skyline Steel.
The Nucor teams work to build sustainable long-term profitability require that we take a proactive role in our nation's trade policy debates.
Global steel production overcapacity is the greatest threat to Nucor and to our entire industry.
Illegal government subsidies from China and other countries have allowed large amounts of cost-inefficient capacity to stay in production and dump steel into the global marketplace.
To this point imports have significantly increased their share of the U.S.
market since 2009 while the domestic industry's capacity utilization remains stuck in the mid-70% range.
On some products such as rebar domestic industry capacity utilization is even lower in the mid-60% range.
With the U.S.
industry's capacity utilization this low imports are not needed in the U.S.
market.
They come here not because of demand but because of foreign producers' excess capacity and on badly[ph] traded pricing.
Nucor is working hard to bring attention to the need for our government to enforce rules-based trading.
We have fought 2 rulings in recent months by the U.S.
International Trade Commission.
In December the U.S.
ITC rolled in[ph] a 5-year sunset review to keep in place existing anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders on hot-rolled sheet steel imports from China India Indonesia Taiwan Thailand and Ukraine.
In November the U.S.
ITC preliminary determined that there is a reasonable indication that imports of rebar from Mexico and Turkey have materially injured or threatened with injury U.S.
rebar producers.
While these rulings are encouraging to us we understand that much work remains in the fight for effective and timely enforcement of our nation's trade laws.
Supporting our fight is the undisputable fact that American producers are among the lowest-cost producers of steel in the world.
We enter 2014 with great confidence and optimism about Nucor's future.
Our team had invested significant capital during the current downturn to grow Nucor's long-term earnings power.
Our balance sheet strength is unrivaled by any of our competitors.
Our cash flow generation remains healthy throughout the cycle and will benefit from 2014's expected decline in capital spending.
Our industry-leading product diversity continues to grow as we move up the value chain in all of our businesses.
Our low-cost structure will benefit from the implementation of our raw material strategy and increased DRI production capacity.
And most importantly Nucor's culture remains as strong as ever.
In closing I would like to comment on Dan Dimicco's retirement on December 31 from his position as Nucor's Executive Chairman.
Those of you who followed Nucor regularly know that we enjoyed unprecedented growth in profitability and shareholder value over his 12-year tenure as our CEO and leader.
Dan's work[ph] for Nucor under his leadership is simply incredible.
Dan thank you.
Your leadership has positioned Nucor well to continue our journey of climbing up the mountain with no top.
We would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Sal Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a couple things.
First on how are things going on your automotive strategy and what do you see over the next few years? And the second thing will be on -- a little bit more color on your natural gas.
But let's just start with the auto strategy? Well as I've mentioned several times in previous calls Nucor continues to develop and get qualified for advanced high-strength steels in applications in automotive.
We particularly are focused on as I mentioned in the past unexposed applications.
I'm happy to report that the qualification process is continuing and we're doing quite well in both cold-rolled and galvanized.
We're moving well into the qualification period and we expect imminent supply contracts.
In fact I can tell you that as we speak we do have already in use in exposed applications steel products on cars in production and out on the roads today.
So on the sheet side we continue to progress well on the qualification and implementation phase of moving into exposed automotive and other automotive applications.
In SBQ we continue to move up the value chain also.
We are currently producing crankshaft steel for several driveshafts.
We produce axle steel at our Norfolk Nebraska plant.
And as we mentioned in the script we've made a lot of investments during the past downturn to continue to get better at that with degassers.
Our wide light project at Berkeley will help us continue to move up into the automotive exposed arena.
And of course we have our automotive-rated galvanizing line indicator.
So we feel pretty good about Nucor continuing to move into more automotive applications.
And that's a focus of ours.
Obviously automotive is very strong now.
We continue -- we believe it will continue to be strong for a while.
So our focus will be to continue to move into more automotive applications.
Research Division</strong> John I was just wondering that this space is getting crowded with aluminum now entering the sheet market on the automotive side and Thyssen's plant finally going to be sold to somebody who probably will be able to qualify soon.
I'm just wondering is this how -- is it worth really pursuing that because historically you had shied away from that end market.
Of course this end market is doing very well right now because construction is down.
But how much effort and money are you still willing to put in this thing to get where you want -- where you should have a critical mass in your hand? Well I'm not sure that we're going after a major component of the business.
And frankly given the investments that we've already made Sal we don't see the need to make many more large investments in any of our facilities to move further into automotive.
So we're pretty happy with where we're positioned from an equipment perspective.
As I mentioned before the qualification period in automotive is a very long process.
It usually runs about 2 years.
And given where we are in that process right now we're pretty happy with the amount of business we've got.
We do believe it will continue to grow but we don't -- we are targeting in 2014 to increase it by about 5%.
But -- and I want to comment on your question about aluminum.
So let's take a look at aluminum.
Yes we recognize Ford's move into the aluminum arena with the F-150 but we still believe that steel long-term will be the material of choice for automotive production.
When we compare it to aluminum aluminum is 2x or 3x the initial cost of the steel.
There is significant cost to retool the automotive production facilities.
And the repair and insurance costs for car owners with aluminum we believe will be significantly higher.
So we still see a major role for steel in automotive.
And Nucor frankly as well as the rest of the industry continue to focus on developing high -- advanced high-strength steels that will result in light weighting for the vehicles that's similar to aluminum and do it more effectively.
We'll take our next question from Meredith Bandy from BMO Capital Markets.
I wondered if we could just go a little bit bigger picture.
There's been a lot of talk in the market generally about a manufacturing renaissance in the United States and I was wondering what your take on that is? And do you see data to support a renaissance or would you say that it's more anecdotal at this point? How do you think about it? Well we agree very strongly with the statement that the gas the shale gas revolution will in fact result in a manufacturing renaissance in the United States.
And I don't have the data at my fingertips but there is quite a bit of data out there supporting that position.
The amount of investment in manufacturing over the last 2 to 3 years is measured in the billions of new projects.
We see it all the time as we visit with our customers and we get in the form of a customer feedback.
We -- there's Caterpillar for one is moving back into the States moving some production back into the States.
Several of the large equipment manufacturers are moving production facilities back into the States.
So we think it is very real.
We think it's very significant.
And we are investing in our company to be ready for that renaissance when it occurs.
That's what the $8 billion of investments we've made over the last couple of years is all about.
We believe it's coming.
We believe we'll be ready for it and we believe we will be best positioned to take advantage of it.
Okay.
And then what is the potential upside to Nucor like if you look at your total -- what's the ability to move in terms of either the number of shipments you can get or perhaps also the widening of margins that I think you talked about in your prepared remarks? As relates specifically to the renaissance in manufacturing it's hard to quantify that number.
I think I'll leave it with the fact that we've invested heavily.
We've grown not only our buying but more importantly we've grown our value-added offerings to the marketplace.
And as manufacturing comes back you need those higher-valued qualified steels advanced strength and others to fill the needs of the production that will be returning to the United States.
Meredith this is Jim Frias I want to comment on that.
We've been operating the last few years in the 70% steel mill utilization rate.
And historically normal markets in the past not just the cyclical peak we saw in 2004 to 2008 we more typically operated in the low- to mid-90s of our capacity utilization.
So that would suggest to you that there's a 20% to 25% upside just in the volumes on top of whatever the margin benefit is.
And I might also just add to Jim's comments that as manufacturing moves back in it's going to need buildings.
Those buildings are going to need foundations.
We have rebar we have the foundation of rebar formation -- forming companies.
We have rebar placing companies.
We have metal buildings that we could supply to them.
So as you see them moving back in you'll see our downstream businesses benefit from that renaissance also as well as our steel producing divisions.
Our next question is from Luke Folta with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First question on the DRI plant.
It sounds like I guess besides the storage tank issue that has gone as good as you can expect as good as you can hope.
Now that that's starting to ramp can you give us an idea of when you think you can ramp the plant to full capacity? And also I thought it was kind of interesting you pointed out that it reduces your supply chain on the iron unit side that makes full sense.
Is there a working capital release that you expect this year as you ramp that plant up? You want to take the...
I'll take the working capital part and then let John answer the first half of the question.
The working capital benefit is going to be relatively small because it depends on how much we shift away from pig iron as the year goes on.
And versus maybe using less prime scrap.
So I shouldn't say small it's a fairly broad range is the way I should describe it.
We currently carry -- we're going to look up while we're on the call how much inventory we carry in pig iron and maybe give you a little tighter answer on that.
Yes.
Well one thing that I would want to remind you of is that one of the real benefits of the DRI facility is flexibility as well as a shorter supply chain.
We will have the ability to switch iron units as pricing changes for the various commodities.
Now that's a really important point.
And Jim you'll look that up.
But I want to mention a couple things about the startup at the DRI plant.
First of all I want to again thank our team in Louisiana.
A great bunch of guys they did a great job working under very difficult circumstances.
We had as you mentioned the dome situation which was a setback.
Our team found a workaround for that in the typical Nucor way.
We like to say at Nucor when we have a crisis we run towards it we don't run away from it.
And certainly when we had the dome failure there was a need to run towards that situation and we did it and the team did a great job coming up with a phenomenal workaround.
That DRI facility is the largest DRI facility anywhere in the world.
And as such it's a complex operation and there'll be some bumps in the road.
But I'm happy to say that in addition to the phenomenal quality that I've mentioned earlier I mean within 24 hours to be up to quality levels that we've been achieving world-class quality levels that we're achieving in Trinidad that's an outstanding performance.
We are currently running just slightly above 80% of capacity that's pretty much right on track with our startup curve that we expected frankly probably a little bit ahead of it.
And we've had short periods of time when we ramp -- been able to ramp-up for short periods of time to about 90% to 95% of capacity.
So all of that gives us a good deal of confidence in the plant technology and in our teammates' ability to run that plant efficiently and effectively.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess secondly I mean it sounds like the experience so far has been really good.
Have you gotten any closer to deciding when you might make the decision on the third DRI plant? Well you know I'll say we've gotten a little -- first of all it would be the second one in Louisiana our third one in the company just so we're clear on that.
And certainly we are looking at that.
I don't want to say that we're any closer to making that decision.
We're just a couple of weeks into the startup.
We want to continue to evaluate the HYL technology although we've been very impressed with it to date.
And frankly as with any plant we went through this with our facility in Trinidad during that first year of operation there's going to be some bumps in the road.
And we expect it you should expect it.
It won't come as any surprise to us when it happens.
We're confident in our ability to overcome those bumps and continue to move forward.
But there are going to be -- there's going to be hiccups in the operation.
It's just it's a new facility a complex operation and there will be some hiccups.
So we're continuing to evaluate it we'll make the decision on the second DRI facility in Louisiana at the appropriate time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly if I could.
On the natural gas drilling partnership is there an approximate range in terms of what price nat gas has to get to before you think it's worth starting to ramp-up drilling there? Well I'll repeat what we said in the script.
At last year's pricing we were able to have a modest profitable return.
And so that should give you some indication.
I'm not going to go any further than that.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll next go to Matt Murphy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just continuing on the nat gas.
How did the decision process work going forward? Is this something you kind of evaluate year-to-year or you need to see the futures curve move to get more -- say get back to talking about drilling? Well as I mentioned it's something that we'll do jointly with our partners Encana.
I'm not sure that it would be dependent upon the futures curve as such per se.
But obviously we would be looking for a sustainable price movement before we would make a decision to begin drilling again.
Right now we believe it's in the best interest of our shareholders and the best return for our capital to suspend the drilling.
The key here is to remember that we don't lose any of the gas that's still underground.
It'll always be there and we have the same amount of access to it.
So as pricing increases it only gets better.
So we'll look at it with a very careful eye before we begin drilling again.
We would want to see a sustainable price move in natural gas so that we get a higher return for our investment.
It's just common sense.
We have nothing to lose and a lot to gain and that's how we'll approach it.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
I guess the other question on it would be given it was modestly profitable in 2013 would you still be needing to disclose it as a separate segment or does that get put off until it becomes more meaningful? This is Jim Frias I'll answer that.
At 300-and-some wells that we'll have in process with what's going to be finished drilling through about the middle of this year that's not enough at that point to require the separate disclosures it's not material enough.
So it's going to be at some point in time we don't have a specific number of wells that have to be out there producing that crosses over that line.
But we're not really anywhere near it with the 300-plus -- small amount that we'll have in 2014.
I would just like to make one more point about the suspension of the drilling.
I mentioned it in the script but it's really a very significant point.
And that is that we have covered our needs for the DRI plant in Louisiana.
So the -- our desire to hedge our bets on natural gas which would mean a major risk to our DRI facility we've got that covered.
So we've got that covered right now into 2015.
So that would also factor into our decision.
As we saw a need to continue or to grow the hedge in Louisiana that would be a factor we would use in deciding to begin drilling again.
Our next question is from Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So not to go over this $400 million but when we saw the announcement our first thought was what's the other better use of that $400 million that you contemplate? Since the CapEx does fall substantially what kind of other investments or alternatives do you have in mind? Well frankly with the state of the economy and with the challenging market conditions in steel we've been approached with more opportunities in the last 6 months than we have been in quite a while.
I'm not going to state anything specific about where they are or what they are but there's opportunities out there.
Now having said that that doesn't mean just because we have it we're going to go out and spend it.
If it's not an opportunity that provides a great return on that investment we're not going to move forward with it.
Bear in mind what I mentioned during the last call and I want to reiterate right now.
Our focus is on execution.
We've invested $8 billion of our shareholders' valuable capital over the last -- well since 2008.
And our focus this year is going to be on execution.
Having said that if the right opportunity comes along whether or not we were able to conserve the $400 million on the gas or not if the right opportunity came along our financial strength and our balance sheet position would allow us to take advantage of it.
But again it's got to be the right opportunity with the right return on the investment of our shareholders' valuable capital.
Other than that our focus will be on execute -- continuing to focus on being the low-cost producer driving our costs down and moving up the value chain in our product offerings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we'll just leave that teaser of the lot of opportunities I guess.
That's interesting.
I really wanted to probe a little bit more on the guidance given that you did talk about all of the outages and all the different projects that you kind of finished up in the fourth quarter.
I thought most steel mills make the bulk of their money in the first half of the year for the construction season.
And so I'm a little bit confused as to how bad the weather you're contemplating would be to offset some of those normal positives and the switch from outages to normal operations? Well we're not very effective predictors of the weather okay.
So let me start by saying that.
But given the start of the year and the way that it is looking for at least the first quarter we think there's going to be some whether challenges out there for the next 3 months.
And also bear in mind that when we talk about the impact of weather on our business it's not just the downstream.
We always tend to focus on the downstream businesses that are impacted.
But remember we're a fully-integrated company.
So when our downstream businesses are impacted it impacts our steel production.
It impacts our scrap operations our whole raw material chain.
So weather for us can have an impact on our profitability.
And frankly Timna we don't know what the weather is going to be.
But given our best guess that's how we see it at this point in time.
We'll come back as we always do in the middle of the last month of the quarter and give more direct guidance.
Research Division</strong> If I could a final piece.
On DRI is it too soon to see the benefit because you're still working down some other inventory like pig iron that you might have had to have in place as a cushion in case DRI didn't start on time? Absolutely.
That's part of the factor.
And again and I want to be very upfront about this we're a couple of weeks into production at our Louisiana facility.
And we know that during the course of the next 6 to 12 months there are going to be some bumps in the road some hiccups in our production.
And so we'll factor some of that in.
We will have -- we'll keep a little bit more on hand to protect against some of those occurrences that we know are out there.
We just haven't found them yet.
Having said that I want to reiterate that we have full confidence in our team in Louisiana.
They will overcome those road bumps and continue to bring it online and exceed our expectations I'm sure.
We'll take our next question from Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a first question on rebar.
We've seen quite a surge in import licenses in January so far.
And I know we had critical circumstances kind of floating out there.
I was wondering if you could just walk us through the timing of how critical circumstances affects behavior? What you're seeing in your business? Should we expect some sort of big drop-off in inventories in the near-term -- sorry imports in the near-term here? Well as I mentioned we are working hard with our government to make sure that that in fact happens.
There's no doubt in my mind and in our minds that rebar is being imported and dumped into the United States.
It's a really good sign when you get the kind of vote in the preliminary hearing that we were able to get.
If I recall I believe it was 5 to 1 which is outstanding.
The ruling is expected on -- towards the end of April.
I think it's April 28 is when we'll have the final hearing and the ruling.
So we're confident that at this point we'll get a favorable ruling.
We believe that to be the case.
And we believe very strongly that it should be the case of critical circumstances and all of the penalties that come along with that.
We'll be pushing hard for that.
And we've got a great team in Washington a great team -- government affairs here in Charlotte supporting that team.
And we're confident it's going to happen.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe just one on currency.
We've seen obviously some pretty serious depreciation in a lot of the scrap-consuming countries since the beginning of the year particularly Turkey.
How do you see that impacting the scrap business going forward? And maybe more than that how do you see it impacting steel in general and perhaps even DRI? Well Keith do you want to comment on scrap? I do note that we have seen that occur in currency.
It's been interesting to see though the amount of exported scrap going to Turkey.
It seems to have dropped off in the last couple of weeks.
Yes.
Well certainly with their currency dropping off we've seen less activity on the coast.
So in terms of how it will impact the scrap market moving forward the scrap market will continue to be regional and based on grades but we're starting to see certainly cold weather in one part of the country and less demand from an export standpoint on the East Coast and that scrap is starting to become a little bit more available to consumers here in the United States.
So to answer maybe 2 questions.
One is we probably see a little bit of softening in the scrap market as a result of reduced export activity and the recent run-up in scrap prices seems to be satisfying some demand.
And in terms of addressing the steel side and we're going to watch that situation very carefully.
And if we see an increase in the imports of steel products from Turkey that result from that we'll take the appropriate action.
Our next question is from Michael Gambardella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch base on an earlier question in terms of how much capability unused capability you really have or earnings power you have with some of the investments that you've made over the years  and the construction market being very weak compared to what it was at its peak say.
I know it's improving modestly but how much earnings capability if you had a decent construction market in the U.S.
you think Nucor has with the build up in terms of capital investment and the acquisitions you've made over the years? Substantial.
You need more clarification than that? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Obviously there's a lot of factors and too many factors to be able to give you a hard and fast number.
Again I'm just going to repeat what I've said.
We've made the investments.
We've made them to improve not only our volume capabilities but the value-added product capabilities we can offer to the marketplace.
We stand ready and poised to take advantage of the upcycle that's inevitably going to arrive.
How quickly it arrives how quickly the economy and the market ramps up will determine the kind of returns that we see on this investment.
Will we see them? Absolutely.
When we see them is what's a little bit up in the air and is dependent upon how quickly the economy and the market recovers.
Research Division</strong> One of your competitors this morning on their call mentioned that in terms of non-res construction the joist business they're doing fairly well.
The big-box type of builders really consuming pushing up the joist numbers.
Are you seeing anything on the non-res construction side other than the joist activity? Well we've seen an increase in our backlogs.
We've seen a modest improvement in the pricing that we've been able to -- pricing power we've been able to exercise in those areas.
But again it's been a modest improvement.
We -- just as we began to see things improve we saw the weather get a lot worse and that's impacted some of that.
But we believe that there will be an incremental improvement in the nonresidential construction market during 2014.
How quickly it ramps up is unclear.
But if you read all the projections we here -- we read there's anywhere from -- some of the projections are 5% to 10% improvement in 2014 over 2013.
So we think that that's probably a reasonable number.
Research Division</strong> And the last question just in terms of the sheet business...
Michael I'm sorry to interrupt.
This is Joe Stratman.
Let me also add I think you asked the question if we've seen it in any other area than joist.
We have seen it in backlogs in our structural business as well.
We've ended the year with stronger backlog than we've had in quite a while which is indicative -- all of that goes into nonresidential construction.
And the other comment I'll add to that it's a good balance geographically and by sector of the types of projects we're seeing.
So that's a good sign.
Research Division</strong> One last question on the sheet side.
How much unused capability do you have on your sheet mills right now? We're running probably somewhere around the neighborhood of about 80% -- 75% to 80% capacity utilization.
It goes up and down a little bit.
Now one of the things that we've been a little bit encouraged by is the fact that we have seen some increase in our order book in sheet particularly in cold-rolled and in galvanized.
The hot-rolled market has been a little bit more challenged but cold-rolled and galvanized partially being driven by automotive as well as our heavy machinery are doing very well.
Research Division</strong> Do see some opportunities in sheet to pick up some share given the anticipation you have for scrap pricing or your costs to come down? We always look for those opportunities.
I would say its a combination of those factors and probably more significantly the fact that we have a broader offering to the marketplace now.
The 72-inch products coming off of Berkeley that's a big -- we will be able to attack different markets with that.
Now we still have a -- balancing against that is there's still overcapacity in the world and it's coming into the United States in the way of imports.
Will we gain market share? We believe we will.
It's a factor of new products we can offer but it's also a factor of our performance.
Our quality is outstanding.
Our on-time delivery is second to none and our service that we provide to our customers is excellent.
In fact you've heard me mention several times in our past calls our focus on commercial excellence.
And I find it kind of rewarding to be honest with you that in listening to some of the other calls from our competitors the term commercial excellence seems to be coming up more from our competitors today.
And I guess I'll just say imitation is the most sincere form of flattery when I think about that.
The next question is from Brian Yu with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Congrats on the startup of the DRI.
I know it's been a long time in the works.
My question is kind of along those lines.
So even now that you're having improving success would you be in a position to help either provide us with the range or guide our thinking in terms of dollar per ton savings you would expect maybe in the context of Brazilian pig iron at $385 and you've got the pile decks at $125.
Just how should we think about the dollar per ton savings? Well Brian to help everyone understand and we do post a kind of a spreadsheet on our website and you can go on to that website and work through the numbers based upon your best projection on iron ore cost iron scrap cost pig iron cost and all of the rest.
So -- now I'll leave that to you to go through it.
I'll just answer your question by saying we're just -- again we're a couple of weeks into this process.
We're just going through the startup now.
We're still evaluating what it's going to mean to us.
It will change as the pricing of other iron units changes.
We've said that many times.
In environments where you have a high iron unit pricing it's going to be a very very major contributor.
In times in environments where iron costs iron unit costs are lower it will be a positive contributor of a lesser amount.
So it's a function of many inputs you're welcome to go on to the website and work through the numbers.
You can see them at different levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like costs are tracking what you would expect thus far? I'm sorry what? Cost are tracking [indiscernible]...
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] tracking cost yes.
Yes.
Our production costs are tracking what we would expect to date.
Your next question is from Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on your SBQ initiatives as far as new capabilities being brought online and then just also how your backlogs in that business are progressing as we enter the new year here? Okay.
Well we kind of gave you a quick update in the script.
Jim Darsey heads up our bar mills.
Jim want to give an update? Okay.
Thank you John.
In 2013 our SBQ shipments were up 18% compared to 2012.
We're entering 2014 with a solid backlog and we've continued to make progress with the startup of our equipment particularly at Nucor Steel Nebraska with the new finishing equipment that improves our quality and packaging.
And Memphis has continued to make progress.
We just completed the installation and startup of a state-of-the-art offline quality assurance line that will enable us as John mentioned in the script will enable us to produce and inspect bar for the most demanding engineered bar applications.
And this fits right in with our strategy to grow our SBQ business into the automotive into the forging industry into the construction industry heavy equipment heavy truck industry and agriculture industry.
And we continue to make steady and measured progress in those industries.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
And I've got a follow-up on DRI and I know you've already answered pieces parts to this John.
But any sense of magnitude you can give us as far as the startup costs in the fourth quarter.
And then I know looking forward you said you're going to have reduced startup costs in the first quarter but getting to a level where you're comfortable I know you said ups and downs but comfortable with the profitability and the potential of the assets when should we be thinking about that sort of contribution? Well first just to pre-operating and startup costs.
In the fourth quarter they were about $16 million and we're expecting them to be lower by about $10 million in the first quarter.
And the improvement is largely improvement at Nucor Louisiana the DRI facility that's where the improvement is coming from.
And I'll let John speak further about what we expect from that point going through the rest of the year.
As I've mentioned several times on the call we're early in the process.
So it's hard for me to give too much color to how we're going to play out during the rest of the year.
We're confident in this technology the initial results are outstanding.
Our quality is good our volume is good the process is stable.
Having said all of that there will be bumps in the road as I've mentioned.
We're expecting them we're confident we will overcome them.
But it makes it very difficult for me to give any kind of projection at this point on the returns.
We'll be better prepared to answer that as we get a little bit further down the road with operating that facility.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Lane with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Along the lines of your comment that imitation is the finest form of flattery some your peers have discussed an interest in DRI production.
So I'm curious over time do think they'll be able to replicate the cost advantage you appear to have established via in-house low-cost DRI production? And if not what factors will allow you to sustain that competitive advantage? Well one of the major factors obviously one of the largest costs of DRI production second to iron ore is natural gas.
And our natural gas working partnership agreement is a major factor for us being able to maintain a very competitive position in the production of DRI.
I would also point out to you that we have a lot of facilities that can use the DRI.
When you build a DRI plant if you plan to consume it yourself it's got to be across a multitude of facilities.
There's an investment required at each one of those facilities in heating the material into the furnace the equipment required to do that.
We're in a position where we have the balance sheet to have been able to do that and do it in the right manner so that we can feed a significant amount of DRI into the furnaces to get the kind of results we are looking to get.
So for those reasons we believe that we -- and frankly having gotten a head start it's -- the best way to learn about a process is to work with the equipment.
We've been working with it now for a while.
We'll continue to work with it.
In some way -- if a competitor was to move forward with plans in DRI production right now it would take them probably a minimum of 2 to 3 years by the time they gathered all of the permits and went through the ordering of equipment and the construction phase of it.
I'm sure they would hit a couple of the bumps that we hit that would slow them down a bit.
So we think we would have a 2- to 3-year time advantage and with that comes a lot of knowledge and a lot of experience that we think would give us a competitive advantage.
So we believe that the way we went into this and being first into it and going into it in a big way as we have done is going to give us a long-term ability to have a competitive position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then a follow-up.
How do your DRI production costs in Louisiana compare to your DRI production costs in Trinidad on a per-ton basis? And do you anticipate the spread between the 2 to change over time? Well again different factors there that will impact the overall costs.
But let me just say this what you really have to compare is the conversion cost itself okay.
And we think that Louisiana given the size of the -- and we have an advantage of volume and the technology itself we think is a little bit better technology.
We think we'll be in at least a cost-competitive if not cost-advantaged position in Louisiana.
We'll take our next question with David Lipschitz with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on the sheet products.
Where do we stand on lead times? Where are you out to right now? Well let's go by product.
He said sheet.
He wants sheet.
Yes.
I was going to go by hot-rolled cold-rolled or galvanized Okay.
So on hot-rolled David we're out to late February and cold-rolled and galvanized we're well into April.
Is that what you were looking for David? Research Division</strong> Exactly what I was looking for.
The last question is from Ignace Proot with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One question is related to your shipments of the fourth quarter which were actually quite good.
They were still above the Q1 to Q2 shipments which is in contrast to a difficult seasonal effect.
I was wondering is this driven by fundamental demand that was there or is this still a bit a market share change that we had throughout the year given some incidents at competitors.
And if it was a market share shift what part of that could stick? That's the first question.
And the second question going back to DRI.
In the environment where still many iron ore producers cannot produce the DRI-grade and several steel makers having more interest in actually buying more how do you look at the DRI premium the pellet premium? Okay.
Let me begin with your first question and we'll work into the second question.
Maybe I'll address the second question first while it's fresh in my mind.
You gave me a bunch of questions there at one time.
So lets start with DRI it's true that the demand for the pellet is improving is increasing.
But we have multiple sources of the iron ore itself.
And in our arrangements with those we feel confident that we'll be able to get the iron ore pelletized the way[ph] to a DRI level that we need.
And we don't see this as a major obstacle going forward.
Perhaps you can refresh my memory on all the 2 parts of the first question.
Okay.
Your question was with our shipments in the fourth quarter...
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So the question is really your shipments in the fourth quarter were still very good.
And I was wondering is that still fundamental demands or is it still a bit of the volumes that you took over from some competitors given some incidents that happened in the third quarter? And if so do you think a part of that market share shift could stick? Okay.
First of all certainly there was a small amount of demand improvement in the fourth quarter.
So there certainly was some demand improvement.
But we also had a huge opportunity because of some challenges that some of our competitors faced in their production facilities.
And that gave us an opportunity to grow our market share.
And whenever you have that opportunity you work hard to keep it going forward.
You work hard to keep it going forward through your performance.
We know that we serve those customers well.
When some of our competitors because of various situations let their customers down we were able to move in quickly supply high-quality product on-time great service a phenomenal performance all at a very reasonable price.
And we believe that as a result of that and as a result of the new products that we've been introducing to the market we did pick up market share and we will be able to hold a portion of that market share going forward.
That's all the time we have for questions today.
I would now turn the call back over to Mr.
John Ferriola for closing remarks.
Thank you Jamie.
And let me just wrap up by saying thank you to our shareholders.
We appreciate your confidence and your support.
Thank you to our customers.
We really do appreciate your business.
And I want to say thank you to my Nucor teammates for creating value for our customers generating attractive returns for our shareholders and building a sustainable future for all of us.
And most importantly thank you all for doing it safely.
Thanks for your interest in Nucor.
Have a great day.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's call.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation First Quarter of 2014 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of other such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes that they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect this -- their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligations to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
This is John Ferriola Nucor's Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's executive senior management team: Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Keith Grass Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan and Joe Stratman.
First and most importantly we want to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for your excellent work taking care of all of our customers during a challenging first quarter with harsh winter weather in most of the areas where we operate.
The more than 22 000 men and women of the Nucor team got the job done as they always do by working safely working smart and working together.
Nucor's teammates the right people are our company's greatest asset and our greatest competitive advantage.
In addition to the operational excellence they demonstrate each and every day our teams have been working hard to grow long-term earnings power.
We have invested significant capital in recent years that we expect to convert into higher highs and profits over the next up cycle.
The 2 key drivers to the anticipated profit growth will be reducing our raw material cost and expanding our product mix to include more value-added higher-margined offerings.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to review Nucor's first quarter performance and financial position.
Following Jim's comments I will update you on our progress implementing our strategy for profitable growth.
Jim? Thanks John and good afternoon.
First quarter 2014 earnings of $0.35 per diluted share included unfavorable tax adjustments totaling $0.04 per diluted share.
This charge was not factored into our guidance earnings range of $0.30 to $0.35 per diluted share.
First quarter results also included a charge of $0.02 per diluted share related to the disposal of assets within the steel mills segment.
This charge was factored into our guidance.
A comment about our tax rates as it can be confusing due to the impact of profits from noncontrolling interests.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners and the onetime tax adjustments the effective tax rate was 34.4% for the first quarter of 2014.
Over the balance of this year we expect our effective tax rate after adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners to be in the range of 34% to 35%.
As John noted our performance was achieved despite the impact of the most severe winter weather conditions in a decade experienced in many parts of the country.
The resulting challenges were numerous.
Deliveries of raw materials to our facilities and our shipments to customers were hindered by railcar and truck availability.
Costs were increased especially for energy and customer demand was disrupted as more than half our end-use demand is directly tied to construction activity.
Most importantly our teammates in all of Nucor's businesses applied their can-do attitude and energy to taking care of our customers.
We view our industry-leading operational flexibility and reliability as critical pieces of the value package we deliver to our customers every day.
First quarter 2014 total energy costs at our steel mills increased by about $7 per ton from the prior quarter.
As a partial hedge to these higher costs the profitable output of our natural gas working interest investment represented approximately 68% of the total consumption of natural gas at our steel mills and our Louisiana DRI plant in the first quarter.
Total start-up costs for the first quarter of 2014 were $20.9 million.
This included $20.7 million in start-up costs for our DRI facility in Louisiana.
That number was higher than we expected.
Overall we are pleased with the progress of the Louisiana DRI plant.
John will provide further comments in our progress in Louisiana.
Nucor continues to benefit from its position as North America's most diversified manufacturer of steel and steel products.
Year-over-year earnings improvements were achieved by a number of our businesses.
In our steel mills segment profits increased at our sheet and plate mills.
In our steel products segment profitability improved at our joist and deck cold finished bars and fastener operations.
In our raw materials segment the DRI facility in Trinidad and David J.
Joseph Company scrap processing business reported higher earnings.
At the end of the first quarter Nucor's financial position remains strong.
Our total debt-to-capital ratio was 36%.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $1.3 billion.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and it does not mature until August 2018.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
Our next significant debt maturity is not until 2017.
Nucor is the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the extremely important competitive advantage of an investment-grade credit rating.
Our financial strength is a significant competitive advantage.
It allows us to invest aggressively during downturns to grow our long-term earnings power which is a strategic initiative of Nucor.
During the steel industry's current lengthy downturn Nucor has invested in a broad range of strategic investments.
We are building upon our critically important competitive advantages that include our low-cost and highly flexible production capabilities our diversified product mix and our market leadership positions.
With these investments we are extremely well positioned to capitalize on the inevitable steel industry's cyclical upturn.
Our focus remains on realizing attractive returns on Nucor's invested capital which currently exceeds $9 billion.
We are confident in our teams' ability to continue Nucor's record of being an effective steward of our shareholders' valuable capital.
As we discussed on our last conference call we expect significantly lower capital expenditures for 2014.
The majority of our growth projects will be completed in the first half of this year.
Also the temporary suspension of drilling new wells or our natural gas working interest investment reduces Nucor's 2014 capital spending by about $400 million.
We continue to estimate our 2014 capital spending will be approximately $600 million.
For the second quarter of 2014 Nucor's earnings are expected to show some improvement over the first quarter excluding the unusual charges.
We expect increased profits at both our steel mills and our fabricated construction product businesses.
We also remain cautiously optimistic about the outlook for nonresidential construction activity in 2014.
This outlook is tempered by excess global steel capacity and the ongoing threat of steel illegally dumped into the United States.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
We do appreciate your interest in our company.
John? Thanks Jim.
I am encouraged by our performance in the first quarter of 2014.
We delivered solid earnings given the significant challenges outside of our control.
The 2 big challenges this quarter were the weather and ongoing pressure from imports.
Our team also made excellent progress during the quarter implementing our strategy of investing for long-term profitable growth.
The biggest reason that I'm encouraged is that I see strong evidence that Nucor is beginning to realize initial payoffs from our hard work through this protracted down cycle to grow our long-term earnings power.
We have invested our shareholders' valuable capital in numerous projects that provide us new higher-margined product offerings cost reductions and quality improvements.
After starting up operations just last December 24 our Nucor Steel Louisiana team produced 455 000 tons of DRI during the first quarter of 2014.
During the quarter the facility attained peak operating rates above 90%.
Most importantly the quality of the initial output has been outstanding.
Louisiana has already attained world-class quality with metallization rates of 96% and carbon content exceeding 4%.
I would like to thank everyone on our team in Louisiana for their excellent progress in the first quarter and their unrelenting commitment to continuing the hard work required for completing the job.
As Jim mentioned Louisiana's costs were higher than expected during the first quarter.
That's not unusual for the early production at a new facility.
We are pleased to report that the performance of the equipment has actually exceeded our expectations.
As was the case in starting up our DRI facility in Trinidad 7 years earlier our work is now focused on process adjustments to improve the initially high product yield loss that is inevitably part of start-ups.
Our Louisiana team has identified a number of such modifications to reduce yield loss that will be made during a 3-week shutdown planned for June.
The start-up of the Louisiana DRI plant is a major step forward in the implementation of our raw material strategy.
We view our expanded DRI capability to be a game changer to Nucor's long-term cost structure for the high-quality iron units we need to expand our share of the higher value-added sheet SBQ bar and plate markets.
It also improves our operating flexibility with a significantly shorter and more secure supply chain for high-quality iron units.
In the first quarter Nucor Steel Berkeley successfully started up its wide light capital project providing Berkeley with the capability to produce wider and lighter gauge sheet steel.
In fact the Berkeley team has already exceeded the equipment's gauge reduction performance guarantees on every grade of steel produced so far.
I congratulate and thank the Berkeley team for their hard work delivering on budget and on schedule an exciting new growth project for Nucor in the flat-rolled steel market.
The wider and lighter product portfolio will allow Nucor to move up the value chain in agricultural automotive heavy equipment and pipe and tube applications.
This successful start-up is also timely in supporting the Nucor Sheet Mill Group's work to gain profitable market share by developing new advanced high-strength steels.
Our team is aggressively going after the opportunity to develop advanced high-strength steels that provide customers with weight reductions comparable to alternative materials but at significantly lower costs.
In the first quarter our Nucor Steel Hertford County plate mill shipped a record 56 000 tons of value-added plate products.
During the downturn Hertford County invested in a heat treat facility a vacuum tank degasser and a normalizing line.
These investments continue to pay off for us with the higher and more stable margins offered by heat-treated products.
Our expanded plate portfolio also has allowed us to increase capacity utilization at our Tuscaloosa Alabama mill by more efficiently distributing work between our 2 plate mills.
Not coincidentally Tuscaloosa set a new quarterly shipment record in the first quarter of 2014.
Our Nucor-Yamato structural mill is on schedule for a summer of 2014 start-up of an approximately $115 million project to expand its sheet piling production capabilities.
As part of the project's work one of Nucor-Yamato's rolling mills will have a 3-week outage during the second quarter.
The new wider and lighter products will move Nucor-Yamato up the value-added chain in the piling business.
They will also allow us to realize more synergies from our highly successful 2012 acquisition of piling distributor Skyline Steel.
Congratulations to the team at Duferdofin-Nucor our joint venture long products business in Italy on the successful start-up of a revamped ladle metallurgical furnace a vacuum tank degasser and a revamped 4-strand caster.
These investments will allow Duferdofin-Nucor to diversify its markets so it is less dependent on construction by increasing its product offering to the energy transportation and yellow goods markets thereby improving their results throughout the business cycle.
Our Nucor teams' work to build sustainable long-term profitability requires that we take a proactive role in our nation's trade policy debate.
Global steel production overcapacity is the greatest threat to Nucor and to our industry.
Illegal government subsidies from China and other countries have allowed large amounts of cost-inefficient capacity to stay in production and dump steel into the global marketplace.
Imports have significantly increased their share of the U.S.
market during the current downturn.
Imported steel share of U.S.
market increased from 25% in 2009 to 30% in 2013.
And over the first 2 months of 2014 their share has increased to an alarming 36%.
Given the indisputable fact that mills in the United States are among the lowest-cost producers of steel in the world this makes no sound economic sense.
They come here not because of demand but in many cases because of foreign producers' excess capacity unfairly traded pricing and illegal subsidies they enjoy from their governments.
We should also understand that the damage done by dumped steel impacts the entire U.S.
economy.
Illegally traded steel and steel products destroy jobs the type of middle-class jobs that our economy desperately needs to get back to healthy and sustainable long-term growth.
Nucor is working hard to bring attention to the need for our government to enforce rules-based trade.
Several current trade case filings underway are of critical importance to Nucor our customers and other U.S.
steel producers.
They include rebar pipe and tube products and wire rod.
The 22 000-plus members of the Nucor team urge both the U.S.
Department of Commerce and the U.S.
International Trade Committee -- Commission to closely examine the evidence as they prepare their final determinations on potential duties for these cases.
Whether it's structural long-term threats such as illegally traded imports or other more short-term challenges such as severe weather in a particular quarter the Nucor team always runs toward the challenge not away from it.
We run towards the problem and get to work solving it and not just solving it but creating from it opportunities for our customers shareholders and teammates.
I can tell you that that attribute of our culture and our DNA is why I'm more confident than ever that Nucor's best years are still ahead of us.
We would now be happy to entertain your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Michelle Applebaum with Michelle Applebaum Research.
So my first question for you is you're throwing out some numbers that you -- that sound terrific about what's going on at DRI in Louisiana.
But I'd like to ask you and then I have another question.
I'd like to ask you to put into perspective for us what some of these numbers mean? And probably one great perspective would be how does this start-up compare to the start-up of -- or I should say the restart of Trinidad when you did that? Well as I mentioned in the script our Louisiana plant start-up we believe went very well and particularly when we compare it to our Trinidad start-up 7 years ago.
To begin with the Louisiana quality targets at start-up were higher than those in Trinidad.
At the beginning when we started our Louisiana plant our quality targets for metallization were 95.5% and our carbon percentage we were looking for was 4% or better.
And that compares to the quality targets at Trinidad at start-up of about 95.5% -- 93.5% excuse me 93.5% and about 2.5% carbon.
So we started out with higher-quality targets and it's important to note that Louisiana achieved their quality targets in a single week.
In 1 week they reached the quality targets that we had set.
And it took Trinidad about -- just to put it in perspective it took Trinidad about 5 weeks to achieve its quality targets.
And in terms of the -- achieving the nameplate daily production Louisiana reached its daily production nameplate target in 11 weeks versus about 26 weeks for Trinidad to reach its nameplate daily production.
And bear in mind that Louisiana's facility's a 2.5 million ton furnace the largest operating in the world.
So this was a first-time event in the production of DRI.
Now Trinidad certainly was a big start-up and we had some challenges there but it was the restart of an existing facility that had been operating.
So it faced a few less challenges.
So overall I would say that -- and I'd also point out that being the largest furnace in the world during the start-up process we set daily production records for DRI production out of a single furnace virtually every day during the course of the quarter.
So overall when I look at the start-up of the Louisiana facility particularly as I compare it to the start-up of the Trinidad facility our team in Louisiana did a great job and we're very pleased very very pleased with the start-up.
Now the team still has more work to do...
Okay great.
My second...
And we need to focus on the process in Louisiana not unlike what we had to do 7 years ago in Trinidad and we have to focus on improving the yield loss that's associated with the start-up in the process.
Okay.
My second question is on trade.
So we just had the preliminary decision in rebar and some people are saying that it's partial good news because Mexico had tariffs that were meaningful not great but Turkey didn't get much of anything.
And I'm just wondering here and you know I've been observing trade for over 30 years now and it's something that when you do steel you spend a lot of time talking to lawyers.
And I just can't help but wonder if a failed trade case a 0 tariff isn't so much a nontariff as much as an endorsement of what the other guy is doing a.k.a.
sort of a license to steal.
And if that's the case do we have a bigger problem coming between Korea and Turkey now both in situations where they are essentially being given a kind of a free pass? Well let me start out by saying Michelle that these are preliminary findings and that Commerce is not scheduled to give its final determination on these cases until September.
I believe it's September of this year.
So between now and then believe me we will be working hard to convince them to reevaluate their position on Turkey.
It's also important to note though that Commerce did find okay that the producers in Turkey and Mexico were in fact dumping into the U.S.
market.
And in addition Commerce found critical circumstances for some although not all of the foreign producers.
Given the surge of imports that we've seen this year we believe that Commerce should have found critical circumstances for all of the foreign producers dumping into our market.
So we're disappointed.
We're pleased with some parts of the ruling; we're disappointed with others.
We're going to continue to work with Commerce and the ITC to get a better ruling when they have the final determination in September.
I got to tell you I'll go on the record as saying it we believe the department should have made decisions based on the evidence given in the record that would have produced higher margins for Turkey.
And we will continue to work in Washington to express that opinion utilizing all the strength of all 22 000 of our teammates.
And we'll take our next question from David Gagliano from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Great.
My questions are actually into trying to drill down a bit more into the economics on the DRI side from Louisiana.
If I look at the average scrap and scrap substitute cost per ton figure of $398 for Q1 what was the cost of the DRI per ton that's embedded in that $398 number? Well we're not going to go into those specifics.
Clearly I can tell you our competitors would love to hear those numbers.
I will tell you -- I'll make just a couple of general comments as I made during the -- during my comments in the script that we will continue to focus on the process.
We will continue to improve our -- reduce our yield loss as part of the process.
And as we continue to do that we'll reduce our costs associated with the production of DRI.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay understood.
How much -- sorry how much of the 455 000 tons that was produced during the quarter how much of that was actually consumed at the steel mills during the first quarter maybe all of it? David just a side note the costs at Louisiana really weren't a factor in the number you quoted because we sell DRI from the -- directly to the steel mills at a market price.
So Trinidad operates and generates a profit based on selling pricing costs.
And in fact low competing raw material prices caused Louisiana to sell the materials at a low competing price with pig iron and busheling.
So that was a factor in the performance in the quarter.
But that number you're quoting reflects a market number.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Understood.
To address your second question I don't have a specific number of how much was shipped out.
But what I can tell you is that our mills are receiving it.
They are consuming it at a rate of about 30% to 40% of the total charge and they are extremely pleased with the performance of the DRI in our furnace.
And in fact it's performing slightly better than what we expected in some areas.
We've seen significant energy savings as a result of the DRI.
Furnace lining life has improved as a result of the coating that the DRI is providing in the process and the electrode consumption has gone down with the use of DRI.
So we're very very pleased.
Our teams are very very pleased with the way that the DRI is performing in our furnaces today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I apologize for asking the same question a different way here.
But I'm just trying to get to the economics a little bit more color on the economics around how DRI is impacting the profitability.
So I guess given that it's sold at a market price is there a way to give us a sense as to whether after the cost and the sales transfer price was that a -- overall was that a positive or a negative contributor to the result? And if so can you -- is there a way to frame how much...
Well in my script I talked about what we've identified as pre-operating and startup costs for Trinidad and it was just under $21 million.
For Louisiana.
For Louisiana excuse me.
For Louisiana in the first quarter.
And again there's 2 factors: one is the startup costs -- excuse me the -- optimizing the conversion cost especially relating to yield as the mill's ramped up to its full capacity and now we fine-tune them to actual process controls; and the second factor is the commercial market it's operating in.
And when we started Trinidad -- excuse me yes when we started Trinidad back in 2007 it was competing with materials that had a much higher selling value.
So the fact that it had not yet optimized its costs wasn't as obvious and it made money right away because it could ship the materials over at a much higher price.
Now as we continue to go through the year we will focus on the process as I've mentioned.
We will improve the yield loss that's associated with the process and we expect the financial performance to be much stronger towards the second half of this year.
As I mentioned in the script we're going to be shutting down for 3 weeks in June to make some modifications which is not unexpected again in the startup of a new facility particularly one that's the largest in the world the first time that we're operating one that large.
So we're going to be shutting down.
So it's about 3 weeks to make some improvements that we believe will have a significant impact upon the yield loss associated with the process.
Reducing the yield loss obviously is going to have a major impact on the cost profile of the facility.
And as Jim mentioned okay even given the current low market price for competing raw materials we believe in the second half of the year we'll perform much better financially.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you believe it'll be profitable in the second half of the year? We do yes.
Again given the current competitive raw material picture we believe that raw material is pretty much at a low point.
We don't think they would get much lower but again if that happens then you've set a new benchmark.
So given the current raw materials remain constant going into the rest of the year we believe that it will be financially positive profitable in the second half of this year.
And we'll take our next question from Curt Woodworth with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> On the long product side John it seems like we've seen kind of mixed trends with respect to bar and beam pricing.
It seems like the beam pricing has started to decouple a little bit from the scrap price but rebar remains relatively depressed.
I'm just wondering do you think that's a function of relative demand strength in non-res more benefiting beam or more the import side hampering the rebar pricing? Well probably a little bit of both okay? In terms of the rebar demand was hurt in the first quarter obviously because of the weather conditions.
And we do see as we go into the second quarter a small improvement in demand that's tied to residential construction improving again modestly and from an extremely low level okay but improving.
But that's offset by this issue of imports that we've talked about in the script.
So without a doubt although we see a small improvement in demand it's being -- the pricing is being adversely impacted by the imports.
On the structural steel side on the wide-flange beams side we see demand also improving marginally but we don't have that same import pressure.
And therefore pricing has been a little bit more stable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question on the M&amp;A strategy.
I saw that Steel Technologies has acquired a small processor I think a couple of days ago.
Is that kind of the beginning of a broader trend for you guys looking at more downstream or processing capability? Well we always look for -- it's a case of us finding an opportunity that fit well with our strategy of going downstream.
It fit very very well with our steel tech operations.
It was a great bolt-on type operation did not require a major change in management and a lot of additional cost to it.
And it's one of our more profitable downstream products that has been very strong throughout the downturn frankly and it's a result of the automotive strength in some other markets that are pretty strong.
So we saw an opportunity to get a great company at a good price.
It was a good bolt-on operation and we took the opportunity.
And we'll take our next question from Sohail Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you on this downtime or are you going to take in the third week of -- in June for 3 weeks? Do you have any idea what kind of costs should we associate with that in our model? Yes you're talking about the 3-week outage that I mentioned for the DRI facility in Louisiana? Research Division</strong> Yes.
The cost will not be significant.
There's some changes we'll be making into the furnace but they -- we will not be incurring major costs associated with that.
And then there'll be some costs primarily associated with the conveyor systems.
You might recall from an earlier call that in Louisiana we have 4.5 miles of conveyor systems.
And just as a point of reference to Michelle's earlier question comparing it to Trinidad Trinidad has about 1.5 miles of conveyors.
So when you have that much material handling we're seeing some yield loss as a result of the impact of dropping the material from one belt to a transfer house to another.
So we're going to be going in and doing some work softening the transferring of the material.
It's not expensive work.
It's just a bit time-consuming.
We'll also be making some adjustments to the internal structure of the furnace which again minor cost but a bit time-consuming.
So we're estimating a 3-week outage.
Minimal cost but we will be down for 3 weeks.
And I'll mention before the question is asked that we fully anticipated this and we've been building our raw material stockpile to take it into account.
So we will have sufficient high-quality iron units on hand to get through to weather through this 3-week downturn.
Sal as a side point pre-operating start-up costs were mainly related to Trinidad and the balance we expect - for Louisiana I kept saying Trinidad -- for Louisiana.
And the amount we expect in the second quarter is going to be more in the $10 million to $15 million range depending on how quickly Louisiana is able to get the yield improvements that they're working on right now.
Research Division</strong> $10 million to $15 million in 2Q? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Helpful.
Jim did you mention in your prepared remarks in very early sentences that half of your volume is tied to non-res? Is that correct what I heard? Generally that's true yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I want to ask...
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> I'm sorry go ahead.
I think I said more than half but go ahead.
Research Division</strong> More than half okay.
I want to ask you about the gas project.
The gas projects have been steadily going up and I think people are view that it may last for a while.
And I'm wondering are you properly hedged or does it make sense to rethink about starting drilling or you think that you are already committed not to drill this year and you can't change that decision? Well we're comfortable with the level that we're hedged certainly through this year and we'll evaluate what we're going to do as we enter into next year.
To give you some perspective on that what we're getting out of our wells relative to what we're consuming at our furnaces in Louisiana on average we were drilling -- we were receiving about 100 000 MMBTUs per day during Q1 okay? And right now our usage at that the Louisiana facility running pretty much full out we're consuming 75 million to 80 million MMBTUs per day.
So that just gives you some sense of where we stand today in terms of our coverage of gas needs in Louisiana.
Now obviously as we go through the year and we start some of the depletion on the existing wells that will change we're comfortable with the level that we're hedged through this year.
We'll reevaluate what we're going to do in the way of drilling next year based upon how we see pricing going forward and other factors.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you talked about your loss at the Louisiana plant if you benchmark it against the Trinidad plant how far are you off? Are you 10% 15% below or you think more than that? We think it's about 3% okay? And I will -- but again I want to point out that when we started the Trinidad plant the yield loss was more in line with what we're seeing today at Louisiana.
Now having gone through the process improvements in Trinidad we've been able to reduce it.
And frankly we plan to reduce the yield loss in Trinidad even further by the startup of a [indiscernible] that's currently being installed.
Research Division</strong> What is the typical lead loss by the way -- ideal yield loss you would like to see in a DRI plant? I'd like to see 0.
0.
Research Division</strong> But what is achievable? Let's put it this way.
I would say that somewhere in the neighborhood of 2% to 3% is probably a good goal.
Now of course when I talk to our team in Trinidad and Louisiana I will be saying I made a mistake on the call and I'm really looking to achieve is 1.5% to 1%.
We'll take our next question from Nathan Littlewood with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just had a few questions a couple have already been addressed.
But could you talk a little bit about some of the market share opportunities you might be seeing at the moment in relation to the blast furnace outages -- or not outages but sort of ramp backs? Well so if I'm understanding the question correctly you're asking me about are we seeing a demand pickup based on some of the struggles that our competitors are seeing in the marketplace? Research Division</strong> Correct.
If you could just talk about what sort of products that might be in what sort of end market that sort of stuff.
It's primarily in sheets okay that most of the difficulty has been occurring.
And we're seeing it across all of the sheet markets.
It's been a little bit of a challenge for them.
We've seen incremental pickup in our orders.
We've had customers coming to us looking for additional tons and we've had new customers coming to us looking for tons.
Clearly as they do we have been servicing them as we can as we have the ability to do.
But of course we're not looking for a short-term commitment from them.
We are looking to build upon this short-term need by -- frankly by requesting and frankly insisting that we get a longer-term commitment from them on the supply of steel.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that that will be successful in terms of sort of what you're trying [indiscernible].
Now we've already seen success frankly on it.
Over the last several weeks we've picked up quite a -- we picked up some incremental business and of course with that some additional market share and again in areas of automotive and others pipe and tube for example -- excuse me OCTG and others.
Now the situation is still playing out okay? So we don't know exactly what's going to happen but we suspect that we'll see a challenged supply side market on sheet at least through the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Second one was just again about DRI.
I recall you talking in the past about pig iron being the natural substitute for this DRI material.
I'm just wondering based on what you can see at the moment in terms of raw materials pricing is pig iron still the right material to be substituting at the moment? And the second question I was just thinking more broadly about the operation of this facility.
I'm trying to understand how quickly you guys can kind of move your raw material procurement strategy to take advantage of different price spreads between all those raw materials.
So if for example 1 week we saw fair scrap prices drop by $20 or $30 relative to pig iron at DRI HBI whatever.
How quickly could you kind of change your raw material blend to kind of take advantage of that? Frankly at a moment's notice.
Our furnaces are extremely flexible and I've mentioned several times that one of the key benefits we see of our DRI strategy is it gives our team the ability to do substitutions as the raw material costs change.
And given the flexibility of our furnaces now we basically charge our furnace from heat to heat from batch to batch.
So we can make those changes very very quickly and we have a great team our David J.
Joseph Company that's continuously out there getting a great sense of what's happening in the market.
They look at what's happening with pig iron pricing.
They look at what's happening with prime scrap markets.
We know what's going on with DRI.
We look at HBI.
And frankly we even look at obsolete scrap.
So at the end of the day if obsolete scrap drops to a very low level we can put more obsolete scrap into our furnace and achieve the same iron unit quality by putting more DRI into the furnace.
So to answer your basic question we can change mixes into our furnace on a heat-by-heat basis.
So almost instantaneously we can change them and we keep enough inventory at our plants to be able to change that mix on a regular basis.
And in terms of looking out into the future to build the inventories our teams are always -- our team at D.J.
Joseph through their trading arm have a great deal on what's coming down the pipe in terms of pricing and we can adjust for future demands also.
Research Division</strong> Got it understood.
And just I guess to round out Dave's questions a little bit further I know you were talking about a year or so ago about potential savings on this DRI plant of about $100 per ton in terms of DRI the pig iron substitution.
We've obviously seen coking coal come off a lot pig iron prices come down.
If you were to reforecast that $100 today what do you think the number would be? Well one of the things that we have on our website that's available is the calculator for just that purpose.
It just gives you the ability to plug in different iron ore pricing and coking coal pricing in the price of gas per MMBTU.
And when you do that you can get a good comparison between the final cost of the liquid iron coming out using DRI and/or out of a blast furnace.
So I would suggest I don't have the math in front of me right now but I would suggest that that you use that tool to take a look at it.
Certainly coking coal is at an unusually low number.
I don't know the current number today.
The last time I looked it was last week I think it was about $115 a ton somewhere in that ballpark.
Keith is that about? $115 to $120.
$115 to $120.
And iron ore is also at a very low level about $125 $126 a little bit lower somewhere in that range.
So these are unusually low numbers and frankly it's a result of demand for steel worldwide slowing down the slowdown in China.
Now that's going to change.
When we talked about the advantages that we saw in the DRI project a year ago or 1.5 years ago we were looking at it relative to the competitive raw material cost at the time and we were looking at it in relation to the other products that you mentioned coking coal and so forth.
So things change and we've always said consistently that whether the DRI facility in Louisiana is a single or a grand slam is going to be a result of factors that include -- strongly include the price of competitive raw materials and the pricing of the commodities that go into blast furnaces to produce competitively priced iron units.
Research Division</strong> Is there any updates that you'd be able to offer in terms of commitment to the Phase 2 plant? We get asked that question every time.
Let me make sure I understood the question.
You're asking were we willing to make a commitment at this time to when we would proceed with a second DRI facility? Research Division</strong> Correct yes.
Well as I said in the past no.
Not at this time.
We're continuing to look at it.
We want to get the first one up and running and stabilized.
And then we're going to take a look at the environment with all the factors that I mentioned earlier and make the decision on when it's appropriate to move forward.
I will say as I always add as a caveat we have the land we have the infrastructure we're gaining the knowledge and we'll be ready at the right time.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And just a final one circling back on the trade case stuff that Michelle was asking about earlier.
I guess we were pretty surprised at how big the Mexico tariff was or duty was and also surprised at how low the Turkish number was.
When you think about your sort of involvement in the case over the next few months and I guess the dagger and analysis that you'll be sort of contributing to that is there any sort of data points or analysis that you could kind of refer to or talk about that might give us confidence that maybe those Turkish duties are going to be increased relative to the preliminary decision? Well all I can tell you is that again the final determination will come in September.
Between now and then the appropriate agencies will be taking a hard look at the what we call the in-country verifications to make sure that what was testified to in the hearings is in fact the accurate information.
Now we believe that that as we look at the data that was put into the record that they should have had higher duties applied and we'll be pushing that issue.
Of course it's -- the ultimate call is Commerce and the ITCs.
We'll take our next question from Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to be bold here.
I'm not asking about DRI or trade cases.
But it seems to me that there's -- but there's 2 things that I thought you kind of glossed over if you don't mind my saying so on the script.
And one is that you said you are aggressively going after the opportunity to pursue high-strength lightweight steels.
And I mean I'm sure you've heard that the aluminum folks are talking aggressively as well about their opportunities but what does it mean for Nucor to be going after this aggressively? What does that mean? Are you qualified? Are you sending volumes to the auto industry? Can you help me just understand how to think about that or model that opportunity going forward? Certainly well I'll make some comments.
As I mentioned we're continuing to develop and to seek qualification of advanced high-strength steels.
We continue to make significant strides in the exposed automotive applications.
We're in various stages of qualifications for both cold-rolled and galvanized exposed parts with imminent supply agreements at hand.
Some new as I mentioned on the last call Timna some Nucor sheet is already in use for exposed applications.
And we tend to focus on sheet but there's other areas of automotive that we're going after too and that's in the SBQ.
And we've developed products that are currently in use in crankshaft steels.
We are producing actual steels for the automotive industry in our facility in Norfolk Nebraska.
We're developing gear steels for drivetrain applications in our Memphis facility.
And I guess maybe to help you understand a little bit about what we're doing you need to take a look back at some of the CapEx that we've spent in the last couple of years that are specifically focused on attracting more automotive business.
The number of degassers that we've installed throughout the company the wide light project that I mentioned again today in the script which includes a 7-stand at Berkeley.
That's going to give us an opportunity with a 72-inch wide product to get into some products for the automotive that we can't currently produce without it.
The Decatur automotive quality galvanizing line that we started up a few years ago the quality of assurance line that we started up last year in Memphis.
So when you look at the focus that we put in terms of our CapEx investments you should have some level of confidence of how successful we can be moving into the automotive arena.
And what also might help you Timna just to give you some idea of where we stand today.
In 2013 in sheet SBQ and cold finish the products that go into automotive about 11% of those products that we produced went into automotive today or in 2013.
One more point that I would tell you and that is this the automotive companies like the reliability that Nucor offers them.
We're extremely reliable with our 4-sheet mills.
And as a result the auto companies themselves have been actively working with our auto team to help us qualify develop qualify and get our steel into their automotive or into their cars.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I thought 10% or so was your historical percent exposure to auto.
So maybe would it be helpful to think about how that compares with where you've been historically or the incremental amount? Or obviously I'm asking for a lot here but margin per ton or volumes? If at some point you're able to provide that I know that would be something that could be really interesting.
Well we'll take that under advisement.
I'm not sure where the 10% number came from in the past.
I can tell you that we've grown that significantly over the last 2 years.
It is about 11% today.
We expect it to grow another 4% to 5% next year above that level.
And our long-term goal again focusing just on the sheet SBQ and cold finish our long-term goal would be somewhere around 15% of those products.
And I'm just now getting some information from my teammates here about where the 10% number came from and that was -- it was 10% of the total steel that was supplied at that time went into automotive.
The 15% is for sheet cold finish and SBQ shipments.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
The other question I had was if you could give us some color on the comments about your second quarter obviously some improvement could mean a lot of things.
So could you tell us what your customers are saying particularly with regard to any pent-up demand after the particularly tough first quarter? Well I can tell you that our key service center customers are reporting stronger shipments and our shipments to the end markets that we serve are also improving.
Inventories at the service centers as you know are at historically low levels.
The entire supply chain is extremely lean.
And it does seem to be some catch-up going on.
I noted in the earnings release this morning the Reliance Steel release this morning David Hannah the Chairman and CEO stated that both demand and pricing increased sequentially for 3 months in a row during the first quarter a trend that we have not experienced since 2012.
So we see that as a very good sign.
So yes we see some pickup.
We think the second quarter will be somewhat better than the first.
We tend to be a little conservative okay? Because we don't know what's going to -- how things are going to play out.
Right now our backlogs are good across all of our product lines our steel lines and our downstream businesses.
We've seen and particularly of note in the downstream businesses the order entry rate and backlogs during the first quarter improved significantly.
Our structural business as I mentioned earlier is doing well.
Certainly the -- our plate business is doing very very well.
And as we come out of the winter and go into the spring the construction sites are going to ease up open up.
You'll see construction that has been challenged in the first quarter because of the weather conditions will start to move again.
So we feel pretty good about the second quarter.
We'll take our next question from Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> John I just had a question on the iron ore supply chain into the DRI project.
Are you from a lead time perspective able to get that in a month or 2? Or in the first quarter where you were costing maybe some iron ore that would have been priced call it mid-2013 or call it 3Q '13 levels just trying to understand the supply chain there.
Phil we have a very regular supply chain that comes in on basically on a monthly basis.
So it's very short -- costing tends to be very current with the current market pricing.
It's a regular supply.
We get a couple of sources in Brazil and a source in Canada and we get it even from one source in Sweden okay? So yes as you know that iron ore pricing is based upon a 3-month contract.
That's the way it's done now.
So we -- our consumption is current with a current 3-month contract.
We don't have a long lead time.
And because of the various locations we bring the product in from we are not subjected to any weather issues.
We don't need to buy an icebreaker.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then for Jim any sort of way you could characterize the first quarter? I think you said $20 million of start-up losses in DRI.
And I'm not trying to beat a dead horse here but how much of that was related to things that were purely maybe more mechanical versus the cost of the actual unit coming out if there's any way to separate those 2 things? Or maybe you don't even look at it that way.
I'm just trying to understand that.
It wasn't really mechanical cost.
There was probably some overhead cost of having some contractors and support people there that helped them during the startup.
But I would say the majority was truly related to conversion costs.
Yes let me build on that for a minute Jim and say that in the last call I used the term hiccups and I guess I used it too much okay? But I was very pleased to find out I'm a terrible predictor of what's to come because I got to tell you what.
From equipment perspective from an operating perspective the startup in Louisiana was absolutely stellar.
You think about the fact that there's 4.5 miles of conveyor systems supported by if I have the number right I believe it's something like 12 000 supporting rollers.
You think about those numbers and we had very very few shutdowns due to equipment in the first quarter.
The team did a great job and the equipment performed extremely well.
I just can't say how pleased we are with the equipment in the operating side.
Now as Jim mentioned again listen we've got to focus on the process.
It's a new process.
And when I say it's new process it's a new process for us.
It's a larger furnace.
The HYL process itself is a proven technology.
It is not a new technology.
But whenever you go through any startup -- I started up several milk shops in my career -- and whenever you start going through the startup is inevitably a more significant yield loss during the startup that occurs than when you become more familiar with the process and you get all the variables under control.
For example here in Louisiana we have several different sources of iron ore that go in.
The amount of gas that's used with different types of iron ore is a factor that will affect the yield.
So it's not an issue of the process or the equipment.
It's an issue of becoming familiar with the different mixes and the products that are being produced and optimizing that process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just remind us and I think you mentioned it already about how much you're physically hedged on natural gas and if there's any more wells that you have that are call it in development or where you expect to be at the end of this year? Yes.
We're currently -- at the end of Q1 we're currently at 277 operating wells and we expect to be at about 316 when we wrap up the drilling program in June.
So that gives you some idea of where we are.
And again in terms of production we average just under 100 000 MMBTUs per day in Q1.
And currently at our DRI facility in Louisiana we're consuming somewhere between 75 000 and 80 000 MMBTUs per day.
So that gives you some idea of the relative hedge that's in place.
And as I mentioned earlier that will change with time as we move forward both with increasing production at Louisiana and as the wells deplete.
But we're very comfortable with where we are in our hedge position certainly for this year.
And as we get closer to the end of the year and look at what happens with the curve the future curve for gas pricing going forward we'll examine that again at the end of the year and make a decision on whether to resume drilling in 2015.
Again as I mentioned on our last call the gas is not going anywhere so it's going to stay there in the ground.
If we can drill it when it's 425 that's good.
If we can drill it when it's 775 that's a whole lot better.
So it's not going anywhere.
It's there available to us.
We don't lose anything by waiting and we have the opportunity to take it out of the ground at a higher price as we believe gas pricing will over time ultimately increase okay? We'll take our next question from Brian Yu with Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question is just on exports.
Could you speak to how much volume you did? And then along those lines Jim we do have stronger pricing in the domestic market.
Is there an opportunity to try to divert some of those tons back to the domestics given the better margins here? Currently we're exporting about 8% of our total production to answer your first question.
And can you repeat the second question? I wasn't quite sure what you meant by diverting it back.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just that it seemed like for many products we have better pricing here.
So I want to see if there's an opportunity to try to sell those domestically given the price improvements we've seen in the U.S.
versus [indiscernible]...
Okay.
Actually good question and it points out a clarification I should make.
When we talk about exporting 8% of our product for total production we target on exports very high-valued steel for special applications and so the pricing for it even on an international basis is very good.
So the differential that you're talking about is more on the commodity grades.
We don't export a lot of the commodity grades.
We tend to focus on the higher-quality products going for higher-quality higher-valued applications overseas.
So there really is not that much of a difference in pricing internationally and domestically on those products.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just I want to make sure that I've got all the moving pieces squared away on DRI because there's been a lot asked about it.
Just first off on the start-up cost it's $20 million in the first quarter and you're expecting $10 million to $15 million in the second quarter so some improvement there.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then volumes just from my "back of the envelope" calculations with the 3-week shutdown you might be looking at about 470-some-odd-thousand tons versus 455 000 in the first quarter so maybe slightly better volumes in 2Q? And then just on the yield loss since you're taking this downtime towards the tail end of the second quarter any improvements on yield we're unlikely to see until 3Q? Well there's -- yes first of all just what we're projecting in terms of production out of the DRI facility in the second quarter is probably around 500 000 tons okay? So even though with the 3-week outage because of the improvements that were made in production we will still produce about 500 000 tons.
Secondly to your question of whether we'll see the yield loss improvements or the yield improvements only after we make the changes at the end of the month -- at the end of the quarter excuse me at the end of the quarter that's partially true.
But there's also another factor that comes into yield loss and that's with the bricketer.
And we're installing a bricketer which will be up and running okay very very shortly okay? It'll be -- the bricketer will be up and running in the next 2 to 3 weeks.
We expect to see a significant yield loss improvement or significant yield improvement with the start up and running of the bricketer Now we are also installing a bricketer in Trinidad but that's not going to be ready for probably towards the end of the year.
Okay? And we'll take our next question from Martin Englert with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I had a quick question on the plate improvement in the volumes there.
They're up pretty substantially year-on-year.
I just wanted to get an idea if this is mainly market share gains or improving end user demand there.
Well it's a little bit of both.
Okay certainly demand is up.
But I have to tell you that the -- our ability to piggyback business given the heat treat and normalized product that we offer to the market now we've increased significantly the breadth of product that we offer to the market.
And with that we have increased our market share and the plate market has been strong.
It's been going well.
Pricing has been good and demand has been good.
Research Division</strong> What's been the primary driver within the demand on the consumption on their improvement? There's a lot of things that are doing well shipbuilding pod [ph] Building railcars bridge projects.
Wind towers are still strong.
I mentioned railcars but specifically tank cars with all of the movement of natural gas there's a big demand for that.
So all of those markets are strong.
We're kind of hitting on all cylinders right now.
Yes.
Martin this is Joe Stratman.
I'd like to add one thing.
You'll recall a couple of years ago we set out to improve the mix we have in the plate business expand products.
So we're more able now to go after a broader range of plate products and those plate products that are in higher demand and offer higher margins at any given point in the cycle.
We have a better ability to participate in those markets than we did 2 or 3 years ago.
And I want to make a correction here.
I mentioned -- when I was talking about tank cars I mentioned natural gas.
I meant to say oil.
There's been so much discussion about DRI and natural gas that I made a Freudian slip.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And one other one within the rebar fabrication business.
I wanted to get an idea of the opportunity there if you have a ballpark estimate on what kind of utilization or what type of annual capability you have within downstream rebar fab.
You want to take a shot at that Ray? Well as far as rebar -- yes this is Ray Napolitan.
As far as rebar fabrication goes we certainly have additional utilization capabilities in combination with our Bar Mill Group partners.
And let's suffice to say we're not stretched at this point in time.
One thing I would add though Ray is given the placement business that we've just acquired a short time ago and the fact that we can offer a complete solution to the customer the rebar fabrication and placement has helped us improve our market share and our volumes.
Yes absolutely John is moving up the value chain with fabrication and placing a single-stop shop for our customers.
So yes.
Research Division</strong> How are the backlogs looking within rebar fab year-on-year? Backlogs in rebar fab are up year-on-year and so are order entry levels.
And we'll take our next question from Aldo Mazzaferro with Macquarie.
I have 2 questions.
First one kind of a simple one in terms of your comment about the energy costs having risen about $7 a ton which quite a significant number can you say how many quarters you might think it would take to revert to normal? Or is it there already? You talking about energy costs? Yes.
The energy costs are our market.
How quickly they revert to normal will depend I think on weather frankly and how quickly natural gas supplies and storage all those get to the point where those prices get pushed back down.
But we saw increases in both natural gas costs and electricity costs at our steel mills.
And that the $7 number does not include the benefit of our natural gas produced in our working interest agreement relationship.
That shows up separately in our raw materials segment with the DRI business.
Okay.
So you -- did you say you it -- you think it's mostly reverting now or not yet? It has started getting better but I don't think it's gotten back to levels we saw in the fourth quarter yet.
Great.
Okay.
And then on a separate topic your -- you got extremely strong liquidity on your balance sheet right now including the credit line.
And I see your CapEx is closer maybe a little below depreciation levels.
I'm wondering can you talk a little bit about your 3- to 5-year view as to what Nucor wants to be 3 to 5 years out in terms of size or products? Especially what are your plans for that money? Nucor wants to be in 3 to 5 years as the most profitable steel and steel products company in the world.
That's our -- that's always been our goal and our intention is to achieve it.
In terms of what direction we're going to go in terms of investments it's really impossible to say.
We have such a breath of products across our company that we have the potential to look at many opportunities.
And so it's really a question of what opportunities become available how they're priced how they fit in with the long-term strategy of the company and whether it's the right move to make at that time.
So we like to say we keep our powder dry.
We keep a strong balance sheet so that we're ready when the right opportunity comes and we'll take advantage of it at the right time.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Murphy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> On -- if I look across your product lines most product lines seem to be pushing to post-recession highs.
Maybe sheet stands out as a little bit of a laggard.
Does that basically come down to price discipline? And I mean you talked a little bit going forward about trying to get to some business back as customers are finding themselves short.
Can you just elaborate on that a little bit more? Well the sheet market has been more challenged than other markets.
Rebar has also been extremely challenged.
The drivers in both of those cases frankly is imports.
Imports have had a devastating effect on rebar pricing.
It has had a devastating effect on sheet pricing.
In both cases we see demand picking up a little bit but not significantly.
So -- and then touching upon your other question going back to the challenges in the sheet market that some of our customers are experiencing and what it's done for us as I mentioned earlier we picked up incremental business during these supply disruptions.
And conditional to the pushed-in business we make sure that we will take the business conditioned upon the fact that it stays on our books and awarded to Nucor throughout the rest of the calendar year.
So we're taking advantage of the opportunities as they come up.
But certainly sheet has been a challenged market along with rebar.
Research Division</strong> And what mix of clients that you're talking to would have been former clients versus new clients on the sheet? Well I don't know that I have that number.
Frankly we take care of our long-term customers.
So our long-term customers who have had issues with other suppliers who are coming to us we are certainly taking care of them first.
We don't have a lot of interest in customers who come to us only in times of needs -- need when their regular supplier has let them down because they're not as reliable as Nucor is as a supplier.
So I don't have a specific number.
But I would tell you that I think the additional tons that we're able to supply to people in need most of them are going to our longer-term customers who have been loyal to us and we're taking care of them now.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on your automotive business I don't need to know have margin comparisons between your SBQ or your initiatives in high-strength steels.
But could you put in order for me kind of your rank of where you would produce material if you had the choice in terms of high-strength sheet SBQ or just cold finish? I don't know that I would differentiate them and put them in any order of priority.
They're all good businesses.
And so we're focused on all 3 and we're working hard to develop new products in all 3 of those areas.
So we don't put one above the other.
We're focused on all 3 areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in the SBQ market are you seeing any impact from new domestic competition? There's -- Jim? Yes.
Jim Darsey.
Several years ago additional SBQ capacity was announced.
Nucor and other companies announced additional SBQ capacity in anticipation of the market for SBQ growing in this country.
And the market continues to grow and is -- from our perspective the SBQ producers have added capacity that has absorbed the growth in the market.
It's been pretty well balanced.
And we'll take our next question from Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to keep it brief.
I know it's almost 3:20.
So just one quick one on DRI.
I know every question has possibly been asked but I have one more.
It's carbon levels.
We are you today? Where do you hope to be? And are you having to charge carbon at your EAF at the current levels if you're replacing pig iron? Currently we're at about 4% carbon level.
That's really a good level of carbon.
We might be able to push it up another .25% but I don't see us going much more above that.
But 4% carbon on DRI is a really good quality product.
To your other question of are we still in [indiscernible] ...
[indiscernible] Oh.
Yes.
This is Ladd Hall.
The more carbon you put in within the DRI the less carbon you inject.
We're still injecting some of them.
I do want to make one thing clear.
There's a certain point where you don't want a certain amount of carbon in that DRI.
When you take -- put carbon in you're taking metallics out.
So there is a magic number in there and we're probably around 4-plus percent of that magic number.
That's where we're going to be at.
We're not really striving to get a higher carbon number than that.
Okay thanks Ladd.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just one last one.
On the auto sheet front do you have any plans of building a continuous annealing line and get into Gen 3 products? Well.
we're always taking a look at new opportunities so I'm not going to say no.
But at this point it's not high on our list of things to do.
But we are studying it.
We've taken a look at the market and we're going to see whether or not that's something we need to move forward.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Gambardella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> John I have a question on the sheet market.
How much capacity do you have freed up that you can take share from some of your competitors right now? Well let's see.
Probably we're operating somewhere in the neighborhood of 80% to 85% capacity utilization.
So we would have a small amount that we could continue to take.
Now of course that's where we are today.
Well we did have quite an influx of orders over the last couple of weeks.
So we're in the process of processing those orders.
So I would say that we're getting close to the point where we would not be able to take any more business.
But at the right price you can always work in a few tons.
So if there's a customer listening to the call that needs some steel in a hurry give us a call.
Research Division</strong> And where -- how far out are you booked right now on sheet? We're up to the end of June.
Research Division</strong> And what's the pricing for at the end of June right now on hot rolled? I'm not going to give any specific price but we're in the neighborhood of about $680 to $700.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Lane with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Really just one question for me.
Now that your mills are using increasing volumes of DRI produced in-house how have your scrap purchasing practices changed if at all? You discussed the batch-to-batch flexibility that DRI application allows for when selecting quantities of various feedstocks.
But have you already begun to change your actual usage mix of obsolete scrap relative to higher-quality scrap as you apply incremental DRI to your melts? Absolutely.
As I mentioned earlier we've been able to achieve mixes of up to 30% to 40% of DRI.
And when you get to that level it allows you to put much more obsolete scrap into the furnace.
So we are adjusting our mixes on a regular basis.
We're taking a look as I mentioned earlier on pricing of all of the various commodities and we're making adjustments as to optimize the mix cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was that -- are you...
[indiscernible] right now.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And was that 30% to 40% kind of a target level that you're -- you have achieved and you're happy with? Or is that going to be pushed higher in the coming quarters? We'll work to move it a little bit higher.
But I have to tell you we're pretty high -- we're pretty happy with that percentage.
You go back just a couple of years when we've had the quality of the DRI nowhere close to where it is today.
We had about -- facility in Trinidad as well as the 1 in Louisiana we were in the neighborhood of only being able to achieve 8% to 10% of the total raw material input.
Today we're at 30% to 40%.
We pushed it on an experimental basis.
At 1 of our facilities we were over 50%.
I'll leave it at that.
And we'll take our next question from Sal Tharani.
Research Division</strong> You have a -- you mentioned a spreadsheet you have on your website which is very helpful in terms of calculating the cost of DRI.
I was wondering how should we think about the iron ore cost? Is it -- do you have a lag? I mean do you buy a 3-month lag or 4-month lag? Some companies in the U.S.
have that kind of formula.
I just was wondering when we use iron ore price what should we use in the calculation? Because iron ore price changes almost everyday.
Well mostly iron ore is sold on a quarterly contract price basis okay? So when you want to look at what you would put into the formula you would look at the last quarter's contract price okay? So it's really a 3-month lagging number.
If you want to look at it and currently it would be in the December January February March levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And one more thing on the -- you had -- you are one of the companies who had walked away from the CRU-minus contracts which I would -- I think is a very good strategy.
I was just wondering if anything you can share in terms of what you learned or any regrets anything you missed out or you think that it was -- it worked very well as you had expected? Well it's proven to be a good decision without a doubt particularly with our ability to take advantage of the spot market improvement over the last couple of weeks.
We've been able to manage our sheet order book to a more effective balance between contracts and real spot market pricing.
So overall we're very pleased with -- we believe it was a good decision.
We're pleased with the outcome.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Ferriola I would like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you and let me conclude by saying thank you to our shareholders.
We certainly appreciate your confidence and your support.
Thank you to our customers.
We appreciate your business.
I want to say thank you to my Nucor teammates for creating value for our customers generating attractive returns for our shareholders and building a sustainable future for all of us.
And most importantly like always thank you for doing it safely.
Thanks to you all for your interest in Nucor.
Have a great day.
This now concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation second quarter of 2014 earnings call.
(Operator Instructions) Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of other such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligations to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon.
This is John Ferriola Nucor's Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Keith Grass Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan Joe Stratman and Chad Utermark.
In May we announced the promotion of Chad to Executive Vice President of Beam and Plate Products.
Joe Stratman who has served in that role since 2007 will focus on our business development activities for which he assumed responsibility in 2010.
These moves result from ongoing implementation of Nucor's thoughtful and orderly succession planning.
Chad Utermark is a 22-year veteran of our company and will be a strong addition to our executive management team.
He is a proven Nucor leader with experience in our sheet bar and structural steel mill operations.
Since 2011 he has served as General Manager of Nucor-Yamato Steel.
Chad and his team are well-prepared to continue Nucor's highly successful record of profitable growth in Beam and Plate Products.
On behalf of the entire executive management team I want to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for a job extremely well done in the second quarter.
You worked hard and work together to deliver better than expected earnings.
Nucor's second quarter earnings increased over both this year's first quarter and the year-ago quarter.
This growth was achieved despite a very serious challenge of surging imports in many of our products produced by our steel mills.
It should also be noted that while non-residential construction is improving it is improving from a very low base.
The key driver to Nucor's performance in this quarter's still very challenging environment is easy to identify.
Our more than 22 000 teammates are doing an outstanding job on the execution of Nucor's strategy for profitable growth.
During the current downturn we have invested significant capital in a large number of projects to improve our cost structure and expand our product portfolios to include more value-added higher margins offerings.
We are now just beginning to see some of the benefit from these strategic investments.
We expect the returns will grow dramatically in the years ahead as steel markets and non-residential construction inevitably improve.
I want to again thank all of our Nucor teammates for their unrivaled commitment to excellence and taking care of all of our customers each and every day.
Nucor's employees the right people are our company's greatest asset and our greatest competitive advantage.
Keep up the great work that you're doing.
Most importantly please stay focused on our number priority working safely.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to review Nucor's second quarter performance and financial position.
Following Jim's comments I will update you on strategic issues and our progress implementing our plan for long-term profitable growth.
Jim? Thanks John.
Good afternoon to everyone.
Second quarter 2014 earnings of $0.46 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of $0.35 to $0.40 per diluted share.
For the month of June results from our steel mills and steel product segment were much better than forecast.
As expected the performance of our raw material segment included an operating loss of approximately $0.06 per diluted share at our new direct reduced iron or DRI facility in Louisiana.
Second quarter of 2014 earnings improved over first quarter of 2014 earnings of $0.35 per diluted share even after adjusting for period specific items.
The first quarter of 2014 included $0.06 per share for diluted share of unusual expenses and a charge of $0.03 per diluted share for LIFO inventory valuation.
The second quarter of 2014 included no LIFO inventory valuation charge and carried approximately $0.04 per diluted share of higher stock-based compensation expense related to the timing of annual grants.
These grants are typically authorized in June of each year.
The second quarter of 2013 carried a comparable amount of stock-based compensation expense.
Nucor's year-over-year improvement in earnings was very robust compared to second quarter of 2013 earnings of $0.27 per diluted share.
Last year's second quarter included no LIFO inventory activity and no unusual items.
As John mentioned our teams working throughout Nucor are working hard to increase earnings despite continued headwinds from surging imports and a non-residential construction market that remains less than 60% of the peak from 2007.
Our teammates' success is demonstrated by a 52% gain in the first half of 2014 in earnings over the year-ago period.
Noteworthy contributors to the improved year-to-date earnings include our sheet mills plate mills and fabricated construction products.
Our sheet mills capitalized on both improved demand and opportunities provided by supply disruption at our competitors.
Our plate mill group is benefiting from the investments made during the downturn at our North Carolina plate mill to add a heat treat facility a vacuum tank degasser and a normalizing line.
Our fabricated construction products group has taken advantage of small but noticeable improvements in non-residential construction activity by both growing our market share and increasing our margins in rebar fabrication joist and decking and pre-engineered metal buildings.
A comment about our tax rates as it can be confusing due to the impact of profits from non-controlling interest.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners the effective tax rate was 33.8% for the second quarter of 2014.
That is consistent with our expectations for full year effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners and the first quarter charge related primarily to New York State tax law changes.
At the end of the second quarter Nucor's financial position remained strong.
Our gross debt-to-capital ratio was 35.8%.
Our cash and short-term investments totaled $1.2 billion.
Further to Nucor's strong liquidity our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility is undrawn and does not mature until August of 2018.
We have no commercial paper outstanding.
Our next significant debt maturity is not until 2017.
Nucor is the only steel producer in North America to enjoy the important competitive advantage of an investment-grade credit rating.
Our financial strength is a significant competitive advantage.
It allows us to invest aggressively during downturns to grow our long-term earnings power which is a long tradition of Nucor.
During the current downturn Nucor has invested in a broad range of strategic investments throughout our steel making raw materials and downstream businesses.
Our investments all build upon Nucor's competitive advantages that include our low cost and highly flexible production capabilities our diversified product mix and our market leadership positions.
With these investments Nucor is extremely well-positioned to continue our industry-leading through-the-cycle return on capital performance.
Our focus remains on being an effective steward of our shareholders valuable capital.
We continue to estimate our 2014 capital spending will be approximately $600 million.
That would be a significant decline from capital expenditures that exceeded $1 billion in both 2013 and 2012.
Most of our recent growth projects have been completed or are nearing completion.
Also the current temporary suspension of drilling new wells by our natural gas working interest investment reduces Nucor's 2014 capital spending by about $400 million.
For the third quarter of 2014 Nucor's earnings are expected to show strong improvement over second quarter earnings.
We expect increased profits at our structural plate and sheet mills.
Profitability of our bar mills should be stable compared with second quarter's performance.
Our fabricated construction products businesses are expected to increase their earnings as non-residential construction activity continues its slow steady recovery.
In the second quarter our Louisiana DRI facility completed its planned three-week outage to make equipment adjustments.
We expect marked improvement in the performance of this plant in the third quarter and profitability achieved by yearend.
The biggest risk to the outlook for our industry continues to be excess global steel capacity and the ongoing threat of steel illegally dumped into the United States.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
John? Thank you Jim.
I would like to share some thoughts regarding the major industry risk that Jim identified imports.
In 2014 we are experiencing in the United States market what can best be described as a Tsunami of imported steel.
Given the indisputable fact that mills in the United States are among the lowest cost producers of steel in the world this makes no sound economic sense.
A significant portion of this import surge is being driven by worldwide overcapacity that continues to operate as a result of illegal government subsidies and other trade law violations.
The Nucor teams work to build sustainable long-term profitability requires that we fight hard to encourage our government to enforce our nation's credit loss.
These trade remedies are not protectionism.
The World Trade Organization or WTO established these actions as appropriate and necessary responses to subsidized exports and dumping practices of nations with access capacity.
Several current trade case filings underway are of critical importance to Nucor and U.S.
manufacturing jobs.
These include rebar pipes and tube products and wire rod.
We were pleased by the Commerce Department's recent final decision to assess anti-dumping duties on oil country tubular goods imported from Korea following a core preliminary finding.
Domestic producers of OCTG products are significant and highly value customers of Nucor.
Regarding the Commerce Department's preliminary determinations in the rebar case we were encouraged by the findings on Mexican imports.
While the findings on Turkish imports were disappointing we are advancing small arguments for the Commerce Department to consider as it prepared as final determinations scheduled for release in September.
During the second quarter our team stayed focused on what is under our control today.
I am very encouraged by our performance in the second quarter and the first half of 2014.
Nucor delivered solid earnings growth in what are still very challenging steel market conditions.
First and foremost each day we pursue continual improvement in the job we are doing taking care of our customers.
At the same time our team has made excellent progress implementing our strategy of investing for long-term profitable growth.
Here are some notable achievements during the second quarter.
In June our Nucor-Yamato structural mill completed an approximately $115 million project to expand its sheet piling production capabilities.
Trials of the new products are underway this quarter with prime production expected early in the fourth quarter.
The new piling sections will increase single sheet widths by 22% and provide a lighter stronger piling covering more area at a lower installed cost.
This investment strengthens our market position in the piling business.
It also allows us to realize more synergies from our already successful 2012 acquisition of piling distributor Skyline Steel.
In late June our new Louisiana DRI facility completed a planned three-week outage to implement equipment adjustments that will improve yields and conversion cost.
Our team has already achieved outstanding quality and productivity in the first six months of operations.
In fact Louisiana has set new world-class quality standards with metallization rates up 96% and carbon content exceeding 4%.
It's not surprising that our flat rolls and SBQ steel mills are eager to consume as much of Louisiana's output as they can get it.
With the equipment adjustments completed we expect significant reductions in yield loss in conversion costs during the second half of this year.
As Jim mentioned we also anticipate profitable performance by the end of this year.
Our successful startup of the Louisiana DRI plant is a major step forward in the implementation of our raw materials strategy.
We view our expanded DRI capacity combined with our natural gas investments to be a game changer for Nucor's ability to grow in the higher value-added sheet plate in SBQ markets.
The benefits from our raw material strategy are many.
It significantly improves our long-term cost structure with a high quality iron units we need to compete in the targeted products.
It lowers the operating costs of our mills through reduced usage of consumables and energy as well as increased productivity.
It enhances our ability to optimize our mix of iron units based on variations and the market pricing of those raw materials.
It gives us greater commercial flexibility in working with our contract customers.
It reduces the geopolitical risk exposure of our supply chain given that many of today's merchant pig iron and DRI producers are located in country such as Russia Ukraine and Venezuela.
Finally and very importantly it protects us from the long-term degradation of prime supplies that result from the growing market share of recycles field.
All of these benefits make clear why implementation of our raw material strategy has been so important to the Nucor team.
Nucor's Bar Mill Group made excellent progress during the first half of 2014 expanding its penetration of SBQ and rod markets.
Our South Carolina bar mill increased production at its new rod mill.
Customer feedback has been very favorable as our Darlington team broadens its product range to include the more demanding high carbon wire rod off puts.
Nucor Steel Memphis is taking advantage of recently commissioned offline inspection equipment to begin production qualification trials with automotive OEMs.
Memphis also completed installation of a fourth caster strainer that will support our growth serving customers in the energy markets.
Nucor Steel Nebraska has recently installed quality inspection line is already at full capacity and plans are being made to add a second line in 2015.
Nebraska is also installing a fifth caster strainer to take advantage of growing demand from it's customers for high quality SBQ brands and seamless tube round billers.
Nucor Steel Berkeley's successful start-up this year of its wide light capital project is building momentum with a growing order book.
The new wider and lighter products already account for 5% of Berkeley's order book.
The investment provides Berkeley with the capability to roll gauges and spinners 0.042 inches which is the lightest hot roll gauge capability of any sheet mill in the Southern U.S.
market.
Berkeley's capabilities also provide a finished width of up to 72 inches.
We estimate the size of this new market segment now available to Berkeley to be approximately 4 million tons of annual volume.
Our expanded product portfolio is allowing us to move up the value change in agricultural automotive heavy equipments and pipe and tube applications.
During the second quarter our David J.
Joseph scrap business acquired two shredders and related assets one in Tampa Florida and the other in Salt Lake City Utah.
These purchases are consistent with DJJ's disciplined growth strategy to expand its existing regional recycling platforms when the marketplace provides us with attractive opportunities.
These significant and numerous investments we have been making over the past several years are all within the framework of our well-defined strategic growth plan.
The goals of our growth plan are to increase our returns to shareholders by increasing our tons produced increasing our profits per ton and adding resiliency to our business against the impact for global steel making overcapacity.
We are succeeding at accomplishing these goals.
As has been true throughout Nucor's history our company's best years are still ahead of us.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor and sharing a valuable time with us this afternoon.
We would now be happy to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Luke Folta with Jefferies First question I had was on share.
Clearly you gained some share on the flat rolled side of the business and also wanted to talk on structural.
On flat rolled I remember some commentary around the idea that if you were going to pick up share from some of the integrated players given the production outages in the first half that you would hope to do so by also getting some full year business implying that you wouldn't sell otherwise.
And then also on the structural side of the market looking at one of your competitors who reported this week it looks like in aggregate so far from who is from the companies that have reported we've seen a pretty healthy pickup in demand in that market.
How much I guess market share do you think or I guess how big of an impact did you think the outage that you had at Yamato was in terms of your shipment trends this quarter? And do you get most of that back heading into next quarter? Well certainly had a major impact.
It was a three-week outage.
Our kudos to the team at Nucor-Yamato they completed the task within the three-weeks.
They did a great job.
It was a result of quite a bit of advanced planning and advanced work.
They came out of the startup extremely well.
They're running well.
They're going through the trials now with all of the different shapes going through the new equipment.
And I'm really pleased with the progress that they are making.
It's going much quicker than we thought.
And we are confident that we will regain those tons in the second part of this year.
Well I was going to go to your first question actually.
You had a comment about our sheet business and whether or not our approach we certainly didn't say we wouldn't sell to anybody but we did say that we would give preferential treatment to those customers who were in a bind because of the situations with some of our competitors.
We would give preference to those who were able to give us business that was not just a short-term business but it was there for the rest of the year.
And frankly we probably lost a little bit of short-term spot business as a result of that.
But in return we were able to gain longer-term market share improvements and we're confident that what we gain we'll be able to hold through the rest of the year.
Luke I'm sorry one other thing I'd like to add is as you think about our quarter-over-quarter performance I remember that the first quarter was four days longer for us the way we do our calendar cut-off than the second quarter.
And I'd also say that in first quarter we were not impacted by the weather conditions as much as some of our competitors.
Our teams particularly Crawfordsville God bless them I don't know how they did it but they were able to ship well during some of those polar vortexes I guess is what they are called now.
But the team did a great job and we were able to maintain shipments through the first quarter.
So unlike some of our competitors we did not have to make up those tons in the second quarter.
And just if I could on Severstal Columbus obviously the announced acquisition this week by Steel Dynamics I guess looking at it I wanted to understand is this something that you took a look at? It looks like the valuation seems pretty reasonable.
It looks like a fairly accretive deal for them.
I would have thought for Nucor the synergies would be at least as good if not better just given the DRI plant located there and just the regional presence.
Curious to know what your interest level was or if you participated in that at all and just your thought process on it? Well I'm going to have to answer the question in a hypothetical mode because I cannot say whether or not we actually participated in the process.
But if we had been involved in the process these are some of the thoughts that we would have about the valuation and really what it meant to Nucor.
Let me start by saying that Severstal is a good asset.
And it's good equipment.
It's good quality.
But given this location it was not a particularly good fit for our well-disciplined growth strategy in our vision.
And therefore we couldn't justify paying such a high price for that asset.
Again hypothetically speaking if we were involved in the process.
But I got to say Luke that given that it was not right for us we were pleased that it ended up with an existing domestic competitor which resulted in further consolidation in sheet industry.
This consolidation when you think about it and you couple it with the TK also a middle consolidation and the fact that RG is permanently out of the market means that we've had three major consolidating movements in the sheet market over the last two years.
Obviously this is going to result in a stronger more competitive sheet industry.
Nucor being given our extremely significant or strong position in sheet will continue to benefit and try in this new environment.
And we get to enjoy the benefit of that better market without having to have spent $1.6 billion to get it.
I want to make one more point just in general about our strategy and some of our history in the past.
In the past Nucor has been aggressive in growing through acquisition.
And we will continue to be aggressive in growing though acquisition in the future when the target is a good fit for our well-defined strategic plan.
You mentioned the fact that we have a strong presence so you thought that that would provide some synergies for us.
Well we look at it a little bit differently as we were valuing this potential target and we thought about what we were going to do in the process.
Now Luke you got to think about the fact that we already have an extremely strong position in the Southeast with three mills and 9 million tons of capacity.
And when we place value when we go about placing value of potential target we consider many factors but three are the really key factors that we consider are: whether that target that asset will increase our geographical inch; whether it would expand our customer base; whether it would expand our product portfolio.
In the case of Severstal it did not accomplish any of those objects.
We're well-positioned in the Southeast.
We have three mills and 9 million tons of capacity in Southeast.
In fact we have one mill Luke we have one mill within a 150 miles of Severstal.
We have a second mill within 250 miles of Severstal.
So clearly Severstal did not increase our geographical reach.
When we looked at customers well we already touch every customer that Severstal touches and frankly some of that they don't touch.
So it would not have expanded our customer base at all.
We can already produce virtually every product that Severstal can make.
So it didn't expand our product portfolio.
In fact with the successful completion of our wide light project at Berkeley that I mentioned during the call we'll be able to offer the market a lighter gauge hot band than Severstal can produce.
So given that it really didn't expand our geographical footprint it didn't help us on our customer base it didn't expand our product portfolio.
We could not just apply the $1.6 billion price tag.
It simply didn't bring $1.6 billion of value to Nucor.
I covered a lot of information on that deal so I'm hoping we focus the rest of the call on Nucor and not just one particular deal.
Go ahead next question.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Murphy with UBS.
Maybe now one specifically on Nucor but more on the industry where you comment imports have surpassed 2006 levels.
I guess I am just wondering what your thinking is on future trade cases what the hold up is? Is it in sort of information collection time if you could just expand on that a little? Well there is a couple of points to be made there.
I think number one my general impression is that as I spend time in Washington I'm a little bit more optimistic that our government is finally to getting to understand some of the importance of these trade cases and the impact that it has on our economy on our employment situation particularly in the manufacturing area.
So I'm getting a little bit more confident that our government the Commerce Department the ITC is better understanding the impact that not only the imports have on our economy but also a better understanding of the process and the length of time it takes and the damage that's done as a result of that length of time.
And as a result we continue our hard work in Washington.
As a result as I mentioned there is a long process.
U.S.
was holding up some potential trade cases coming down the road well it's the process.
We are gathering information.
I'm not going to give anything more specific about what trade cases might be coming down the pipe.
I don't think you have to use too much of your imagination to figure out what it is.
We've been pleased with the outcome at the OCTG case.
We feel good about the rebar case with.
One of the things that I mentioned in script was that we're working with the Commerce Department to help them better understand facts of the case.
And given that we feel confident that we've got a good shot at a final ruling that's more favorable than the preliminary.
So overall listen overcapacity in the world is a major issue.
It is one of our greatest risk not only to Nucor but to our entire industry.
Nucor will as we always have been very local and we will continue to fight a good fight.
And we're confident we're going to be more and more successful going forward because more and more of our trade laws are being flagrantly violated.
So as a result I'm pretty optimistic about the future but I'm not going to give any specific sense to what cases might be coming down the pipeline.
And then maybe just one specific on structural.
Second quarter realized pricing was pretty strong.
How sustainable do you think that is in the second half? Our backlogs are good.
The market is good.
Demand is good.
We're going to be bringing new products on to the market.
Given all of that we feel it's sustainable through the second half of the year.
It's hard to look out much past the second half of the year so I'm not going to make any comments about 2015.
But certainly we feel good about it and particularly given the new products that we're going to be able to offer off of that mill.
We're excited about it.
We really are.
And the market is very excited about them also.
And we'll take our next question from Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch I just wanted to ask a little bit more generally speaking about uses of cash.
And I think that you make the point that you're not investing in gas exploration.
You made the point that you have very strong free cash flows great balance sheet.
And as such I think it begs the question or revisits the question of what you're planning to do with the capital.
So I want to ask again now that we've seen the DRI plant start to work a little bit more in your favor you're getting a little bit more comfortable with it and now that you have seen some M&amp;A unlocked not just the one that was announced earlier this week but other opportunities that are starting to portray themselves in the market.
How do you think about build versus buy? How do you think about the options out in the market? You do have a very strong balance sheet interest rates are low.
Can you just give us a flavor about what you're thinking about and what priorities? Well as a general statement I would say that we're still probably leaning towards buy rather than build simply because the older capacity that already exists in the world we don't see any sense in adding to it.
Certainly in the United States market we've had a fairly good balance at this point and we wouldn't consider building a new sheet mill or I feel there might be other products that we would look at we think that there are some areas where we have potential to grow.
A more general answer Timna is listen the world is our oyster.
We've got a great balance sheet.
We're wrapping up a lot of projects.
I think there's a total of 12 projects we've done over the last four years that are starting to come that has come to conclusion and is starting to show some returns so we're feeling better about those.
We'll be wrapping up the few remaining ones in the next six months 12 months.
So we're in a position where we will again becoming rather aggressive in growing the company in some possibly new directions.
I would also tell you that there are some opportunities out there that fit much better than in Severstal asset fit.
Better location relative to our mills areas where we do not have a strong of a presence and we don't have as high of a percent of market share as we do in the Southeast.
And overall the Southeast we've got something like kind of 25% 30% market share.
And there's other regions of the country where there is actually more market demand in sheet products where we have a much smaller footprint and a smaller market share.
So there is a lot of opportunities out there.
On the structural side we've just completed this new project to get new products out there.
Now we've got to take that to the market.
We're excited about some opportunities we can do.
And one of the things that we did in addition to the new piling sections that we have is we -- let me see how I can say this we improved the quality of the products that we are putting through the mill already and with much greater tolerances than have been available in the past.
I'll leave it at that.
And our customers are very excited about that.
Not only do we feel that that will bring some additional business or bring us some additional margin.
We feel good about that.
So right now Timna I'm glad that we had a strong balance sheet I really am.
It speaks once again to Nucor's successful longstanding policy of maintaining a strong balance sheet and then taking advantage of that to grow the company in many ways organically incrementally and in larger ways through acquisitions.
If I can follow up.
Now that does except for that you didn't mention DRI once.
So I guess I can follow-up there and ask about that in light of the cancellation of one project that was being contemplated but pig iron prices staying stubbornly high how are you looking at DRI now? You mean someone else canceling a DRI project whether that impacts the way that we think about DRI.
Just an update in light of the fact that A someone canceled a project; B pig iron prices have stayed high; and I guess C you're also seeing your own project come closer to the levels that you'd aimed for.
So how do you think about all those in light of your own DRI plans? Certainly all of those are favorable factors supporting the initial decision to go into DRI.
You could argue that the one other company canceling the project might indicate that they felt that it wasn't a good project.
DRI wasn't a good way to go in terms of a raw material supply.
But I would caution you that you must remember that it isn't unless you have a gas contract to along with it.
Okay.
We do they didn't.
I don't blame them.
Okay I'll leave it at that.
Certainly the fact that we've gained some confidence out of the DRI Louisiana plant that we're currently running in terms of the quality that client put out.
We are still working through some of our startup issues no doubt about that.
We shut down for three weeks.
We made some modifications from information knowledge that we gained by running.
They're in the first period.
And I have to say that we're pleased with the results of the equipment modifications that we made during that three-week outage.
We still have more work to do but what we've seen as we came out of that outage.
There was great confidence in the long-term success for that plant.
So all of that factors into.
Certainly we're still considering the second DRI plant.
I have said many times and I'll say again that we want to get first one up and running and learn all we can from it so that if we want to make any tweaks either to the equipment or however whatever changes we might want to make in the system we don't want to build the second one until we fully gain all the knowledge we can get out of the first one.
We learned a lot in first six months.
We'll learn more in the six months.
But I will tell you and this is a good long-term strategy for Nucor okay.
I gave you the reasons and that the key word that I hope you caught there was this is a good long-term strategy.
This is more than just a short-term boost to earnings okay.
This is something that we believe in five 10 15 years from today is going to truly differentiate Nucor from our competitors.
And I gave you the list of reasons why I felt that way.
We'll take our next question from Sal Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
My first question for Jim.
You have taken your LIFO cut your LIFO by half for the year.
Just wondering is it your reflection of steel prices or is it the iron ore price? What's driving that? The biggest driver Sal is scrap pricing.
So you think scrap is going to follow iron ore over the period of the next six months? Yes.
We think it's going to be relatively flat.
It certainly hasn't trended up to where it would have needed to go to justify what was our original budget for LIFO expense.
John the Steel Dynamics had made some positive commentary in non-res construction in terms of joist orders and so forth.
I was just wondering and you have mentioned about your downstream business are getting better than you expect further improvement in third quarter.
How quick is this transition going on? Do you think this is going to be a pretty strong recovery over the next year-and-a-half or so or is it going to limp along 4% 5% type of recovery from a very low base? I believe and we believe that it will limp along at a very slow recovery 5% to 6%.
I think what might be misleading some people is the rate of increase in second quarter versus first quarter.
And I think you have to be careful about that.
First quarter was very heavily impacted by weather in every one of our downstream businesses and I suspect in everyone else's downstream business.
If we look at just our second quarter order entry rate in downstream businesses relative to first quarter we see a very significant improvement.
But some of that as I said is a result of catching up from the first quarter's poor weather conditions that really hampered by any kind of non-residential construction.
So as we go forward to the rest of the year we think that there will be continuous improvement most analyst and we particularly agree with them saying that by the end of the year the 2014 versus '13 increase will be somewhere around that 5% to 6% number.
And we believe that's accurate.
The next question is on the DRI.
And I understand your comment that it's doing better than what you have thought.
So your initial assessment was that it would take a year to make it profitable? Yes.
I think we are still saying that we will be profitable by the end of the year.
Yes.
I'm not saying that we're going to making up at the end of the year to cover the losses in the first half.
We are just saying that the fourth quarter's operations will be generating profits by our current estimation.
And we'll take our next question from Nathan Littlewood with Credit Suisse.
Listen just wanted to ask a little bit about imports and the OCT trade case.
So I guess traditional thinking up until we saw this one recently was that there generally wasn't a huge amount of change in terms of the duties or tariffs supplied between the preliminary and final determinations.
But what we're seeing here is an example where they have changed quite significantly.
I was interested in hearing your thoughts on a couple of things.
Firstly number one how has the OCTG example sort of changed the way you think about trade cases? How you approach trade cases? And the second part is could you talk a little bit about the number of people and the resources that you allocate to trade case investigations? And are you in any way thinking about increasing that given the success that we've seen with OCTG? Let me tackle the first question first.
The OCTG case has impacted the way that we view trade cases going forward.
One of the things that we believe led to the success here was the fact that we worked very hard with the ITC and with Congress to help them understand the data and look at how that data was being presented by some of the countries in the case.
We believed and apparently obviously we were able to convince them that the way the data was being presented was very misleading.
Helping them walk through that process resulted in a more positive outcome for us and for the industry.
How does that impact us going forward? Well certainly now having learned that we will present the data in a way that for us makes it some very clear and work with the Commerce and ITC to help them understand the way that the data from the offending countries is presented.
So we've learned from the lesson.
And how do I feel about things going forward as I mentioned earlier it's impossible to say with any level of certainty but you have a certain sense of feelings when you are in Washington.
And my sense is that I feel more optimistic about the cases coming up as we go forward.
I think both Commerce and the ITC are seeing the -- what we've been saying for quite some time the practice of repeat offenders the practice of product substitution you win a case on one thing they immediately win it on structural beams they got to rebar you win it on rebar they go to merchant bar.
Now there's a pattern that's being developed that we're helping the ITC and Commerce Department understand which points to some very basic flaws in the way our laws are being applied.
And we're working hard to help Washington and the proper authorities understand that.
And your second question was whether or not we felt a need to increase the size of our team working in Washington.
All I can tell you it's a very small team but it's extremely effective team.
We've got the best there is.
And I don't think we need to grow it at all.
The team has got a great deal of confidence.
They had shown what they can accomplish.
And they have been very successful and I don't see us changing that at all.
I just had one final one on back on DRI and the DRI economics.
Over the past few months as Timna was asking earlier we've seen pig iron prices hold up remarkably well.
The headline finds prices come down iron ore pellet premiums have come down as well so one would have to assume that the margin or the raw material spread has gotten a heck of a lot better for you guys over the last couple of months.
Could you talk a little about that sort of spread or some of the underlying commodity price assumptions upon which your profitability guidance is based? And as you know that spread can kind of vary by $100 a ton or more over the course of a few months.
So what sort of commodity price environment do you achieve breakeven? And if we saw the current spreads maintained is there risk profitability may actually be a little bit earlier? Well there is always that possibility.
In terms of what are the margins given different pricing of the commodity that we used to make this determination we have a nice spreadsheet that's up on our website and it's a very interactive spreadsheet very easy to work with you plug-in whatever numbers you want to plug into with iron and pallet premiums and every other element that goes into it.
And it will spread out the differential.
So I'm not going to go through the different scenarios.
There's just too many of them to consider.
But I would point you to that spreadsheet and recommend that if you want to work with those numbers you will clearly use that spreadsheet and you will get that.
And we'll take our next question from Aldo Mazzaferro with Macquarie.
On the DRI you said there was a 96% metalization and a 4% carbon.
That sounds like a pretty good mix there.
I'm wondering when you say -- Well let me stop you right there okay.
Let me stop you right there for a minute Aldo.
It's not a very good mix.
It's a great mix it's an outstanding it's world-class setting mix.
Now you can continue.
So my question is when you say you want to improve the yield are you talking about the metalization yield or are you talking about a yield to finished product from pellet? Processed yield.
In other words yield to finished product.
Process yield not the metalization or the carbon rates.
Can you say what that yield is now and what your target would be? It's not as good as wanted to be.
It's a hell of a lot better than when we started.
That's the parameters that I'll give you.
We made some progress after a few weeks of running.
We've recognized some issues that we had to go in and take care of which we did during three week outage that we mentioned few times.
Coming out of that we saw our yield improve still more.
We will continue to work to get it even better by the end of the year.
Frankly I'm hoping our team is listening there and when I say that our goal okay is 99.999% yields.
So right now you only have two 9's probably right? So the other question I had John is on the shredder acquisition you made.
Can you give us an idea of what the volume potential would be of those two things? I'm going to turn that over to our scrap guru over here Keith.
Scrap guru I'm not sure but between the two of them it adds an additional quarter million tons of shredding volumes through the facilities.
And maybe just one extra point that there was an effort of consolidation.
So we operate facilities in both of those regions and are in the process of and in fact in both cases have already consolidated into our existing shredding platform.
And that's the key point.
You made an additional point but it's really it's a key point of the disciplined structured growth plan at DJ Joseph of building on existing platforms that we have in place which brings some synergies to it and got a good management team in place.
So the growth you're going to see at DJ Joseph going forward will be similar to this where we grow incrementally at each one of our platforms taking advantage of comp consolidation and the synergies.
And can you just say how much of all the scrap that Joseph handles I know they do a lot of brokerage and then they also do some shredding can you say how much they shred versus broker roughly? We've shred what about 4.5 million tons but close to the 3.5 million tons.
So we shred 3.5 million tons and we broke quite a bit more than that between 20 million or 24 million tons we broke.
And you got time for one more question on the acquisition front.
Absolutely.
John I am very interested in your landscape comments on the industry about where you might see opportunities for acquisitions.
And I had the feeling you were talking about the upper Midwest as an opportunity.
But they're very big unionized mills up there.
I know there's a small one for sale in Kentucky.
I'm wondering the small one for sale in Kentucky I could see it but not really a needle mover.
But in terms of a big mill in the Midwest is that something you would consider? We don't discuss our strategic plan.
We've got competitors onshore listening to this call would love to learn what it is we plan to do going forward.
So I'm not going to make any comments at all.
Other than we always say no comment when it comes to strategic planning and merger and acquisition opportunities.
And we'll take our last question in the queue from Brian Yu with Citi.
A question on the DRI I think in the last quarter you guys said you would do about 200 000 tons or 500 000 tons in the second quarter.
Would you be able to provide some targets of what you guys are hoping to accomplish maybe 3Q and 4Q as part of this breakthrough to profitability? I just want to make sure I understand the question.
You're asking how many tons we think we'll produce at DRI during the third and fourth quarter? Yes.
That's right.
We think we'll be somewhere and again we're in a ramp up mode so I'm going to give you a range here because as I said we are in this ramp up mode.
It's somewhere between 700 000 tons and 900 000 tons.
For the second half of the year? For the second half of the year.
And are there any other outages that's planned for that facility or is it at this point more of getting the process locked down and as you mentioned earlier improving those process yields? We are and that's exactly what's taking place right now.
It's getting the process locked down.
As you go through that you might see different things that you want to make some changes to or improvements with.
You might shutdown to do that.
But we aren't anticipating any major shutdowns between now and the end of the year.
That's the end of the questions.
Well I'm assuming there are no further questions and I am assuming everyone is still on the line.
So let me conclude by saying thank you to our shareholders.
We appreciate your confidence and your support.
Thank you to our customers.
We appreciate your business.
We wouldn't be in business without your business.
So thank you.
And I want to say thank you to my Nucor teammates for creating value for our customers generating attractive returns for our shareholders and building a sustainable future for all of us.
And most importantly thank you all for doing it safely.
Thanks for your interest in Nucor.
Have a great afternoon.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Third Quarter of 2014 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found on Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available at the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon.
This is John Ferriola Nucor's Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan Joe Stratman Chad Utermark and Dave Sumoski the newest member of our leadership team.
In September Keith Grass Nucor's Executive Vice President responsible for our raw material businesses retired.
Keith joined the David J.
Joseph Company in 1978.
He has served as DJJ's CEO since 2000 and became an Executive Vice President of Nucor when the Joseph Company joined the Nucor family in 2008.
Keith's strong leadership has contributed greatly to the establishment of DJJ as North America's premiere metals recycler and the successful implementation of Nucor's raw materials strategy.
On behalf of the entire Nucor family I want to thank Keith Grass for his many contributions to the combined success of David J.
Joseph and Nucor.
Keith you have retired but you will always be part of the Nucor family.
Upon Keith's retirement Nucor Executive Vice President Joe Stratman has assumed responsibility for our raw materials and logistics businesses.
Joe has served as an Executive Vice President of Nucor since 2007.
As noted earlier Dave Sumoski became Nucor's newest Executive Vice President in September with responsibility for our engineered bar products business.
Dave is a 19-year veteran of our company and a proven leader who will be a strong addition to our executive management team.
Since 2012 he has served as General Manager of Nucor Steel Memphis.
Dave's promotion will enable us to intensify our focus on a highly attractive growth business for Nucor.
In recent years we have invested approximately $290 million to expand our special bar quality cold finish bar and wire rod product offerings.
Dave and his team are well prepared to continue Nucor's highly successful record of profitable growth in engineered bar products.
The executive -- the entire executive management team would like to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for a job extremely well done in the third quarter.
You worked hard you worked together and most importantly you worked safely to deliver strong earnings growth over both this year's second quarter and last year's third quarter.
This growth was achieved despite continuing serious challenges in the U.S.
and global steel markets.
Our more than 22 000 teammates are doing an outstanding job executing Nucor's strategy for profitable growth.
In recent years our team has invested significant capital in a large number of projects to improve our cost structure and expand our product portfolios to include more value-added higher-margined offerings.
We are now just beginning to see some of the early benefits on these strategic investments.
As steel markets and non-residential construction continue improving in the years ahead we expect the returns will grow dramatically.
We also want to extend a very warm welcome to the newest members of the Nucor family: our team at Nucor Steel Gallatin in Ghent Kentucky.
Nucor is very proud and excited to have you on board.
Nucor's employees the right people are our company's greatest asset and our greatest competitive advantage.
Keep up the outstanding work you have always done with a focus on safety quality and productivity.
Together we have a great future taking care of all of our customers the people who use our products our teammates and our shareholders.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to review Nucor's third quarter performance and financial position.
Following Jim's comments I will update you on the progress implementing our strategy for long-term profitable growth.
Jim? Thanks John.
Third quarter of 2014 earnings of $0.76 per diluted share compares favorably with our guidance range of $0.70 to $0.75 per diluted share.
It also represents a strong 65% improvement from earnings of $0.46 per share per diluted share reported in both the second quarter of 2014 and the third quarter of 2013.
A comment about our tax rates which can be confusing due to the impact of profits from noncontrolling interests.
After adjusting out profits belonging to our business partners the effective tax rate was 34.6% for the third quarter of 2014.
Results from our steel mills and steel product segments were significantly improved in third quarter of 2014 particularly improved profitability was achieved by our sheet plate and joist and decking businesses.
The third quarter performance of our raw materials segment included a larger-than-expected operating loss of approximately $0.09 per diluted share at our new direct reduced iron or DRI plant in Louisiana.
Nucor's overall third quarter performance again demonstrates the value of one of our key competitive strengths.
We are North America's most diversified producer of steel and steel products.
Our sheet mills did an excellent job of capitalizing on pricing strength in flat-rolled markets this past quarter but our robust earnings growth was also driven by increased contributions from a number of other product lines.
Our plate mill group is benefiting from the investments made during the downturn to expand our value-added product capabilities with the addition of heat treating normalizing and vacuum tank degassing.
All 3 of our fabricated construction products joist and decking preengineered metal buildings and rebar fabrication delivered significant earnings improvements in this year's third quarter and the first 9 months.
At the same time we continue to enjoy healthy earnings contributions from our bar mills cold finish B mills and raw materials brokerage businesses.
David J.
Joseph Company's scrap processing business has also achieved improved profitability over this period.
As John mentioned the entire Nucor team is working hard to deliver attractive returns on the capital we have invested during the downturn.
Our investments totaled nearly $6 billion over 2009 through 2014 period with about 2/3 going to capital expenditures and 1/3 going to acquisitions.
We believe the robust 59% increase in earnings year-over-year through the first 9 months of 2014 is strong evidence that these efforts are beginning to pay off for our shareholders.
Most importantly we believe that this is only an early indication of greater earnings power to come as continued recovery in nonresidential construction gains momentum.
On October 8 we completed our purchase of all the equity of Gallatin Steel for a cash purchase price of approximately $770 million.
The acquisition was funded from cash on hand and the issuance of approximately $300 million of commercial paper.
Drawing from Nucor's strong generation of cash from operations we expect to retire our commercial paper borrowings within the next 12 months.
Our team is excited about the opportunities the Gallatin acquisition provides Nucor to create attractive long-term value for our shareholders customers and employees.
Adjusting for the next -- for the net present value of the anticipated tax benefits the realized effective purchase price is approximately $630 million.
The acquisition is expected to be immediately accretive to cash flow and accretive to earnings after working through purchase accounting value to finished goods inventories.
Due to Gallatin's 4-week inventory turnover rate we would expect purchase accounting expenses net of operating profits to result in a negligible impact to the fourth quarter of 2014 results.
John Ferriola will discuss in his comments the compelling strategic value Gallatin provides Nucor.
The Gallatin transaction highlights the strategic value of our company's financial strength.
Nucor is the only North American steel producer to hold an investment-grade credit rating.
Our strong balance sheet and healthy cash flow generation through the economic cycle allow Nucor to make strategic acquisitions when the right assets at the right price become available in the marketplace.
Our cash and short-term investments totaled $1.4 billion at the end of the third quarter.
Following the purchase of Gallatin after the close of the quarter cash and short-term investments remain well above our targeted minimum level of $500 million.
Nucor's strong liquidity position also includes our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility which remains undrawn.
This facility does not mature until August of 2018.
Our next significant debt maturity is not until 2017 including the recently issued commercial paper of Nucor's pro forma gross debt-to-capital ratio is approximately 37%.
We continue to estimate our 2014 capital spending will be approximately $600 million.
That would be a significant decline from capital expenditures that exceeded $1 billion in both 2013 and 2012.
Most of our recent large-scale growth projects have been completed or are nearing completion.
Also the temporary suspension of drilling new wells by our natural gas working interest investment is reducing Nucor's 2014 capital spending by about $400 million.
We recently reached a joint decision with Encana our working interest investment partner to extend our drilling suspension through the end of 2015 other than drilling several wells required to maintain leasehold rights.
Nucor's strong relationship with Encana gives both partners a win-win approach to deploying capital in the current natural gas price environment.
We together retain the valuable option to resume drilling in a higher natural gas pricing environment where more attractive returns are generated.
Nucor also maintains our desired hedge on gas consumption for decades into the future.
It is important to note that our Louisiana DRI plant's expected gas usage in 2015 and 2016 is covered by production from our existing wells plus financial hedges we have recently secured.
Nucor's capital spending plans for 2015 will not be set until later this quarter.
With no new major projects currently anticipated we would expect next year's capital expenditures to be approximately $500 million.
That would compare against a preliminary estimate of 2015 depreciation and amortization of approximately $700 million.
Nucor Steel Gallatin is expected to account for approximately $40 million of that estimated total depreciation and amortization expense for next year.
Fourth quarter 2014 earnings are expected to show a moderate decline from strong third quarter earnings due to typical seasonal factors but should be well above 2013 fourth quarter earnings of $0.53 per diluted share.
Nucor will again follow our practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
The biggest risk to our outlook for our industry continues to be excess global steel capacity that has resulted in large quantities of steel illegally dumped into the United States.
Nucor and other steel producers in the U.S.
are working hard to bring attention to the need for free and fair trade which is simply rules-based trade as established by the World Trade Organization or WTO.
We applaud several recent actions by the U.S.
government to enforce our nation's trade laws.
Last week the U.S.
Department of Commerce notified the Russian government that it is terminating the suspension agreement for hot-rolled sheet steel imports.
Russian hot-rolled sheet imports have surged by more than 2 500% or 25x in the first 9 months of 2014.
The suspension agreement will be replaced by an anti-dumping duty order which we expect to be more effective.
Earlier this month the U.S.
International Trade Commission in a unanimous 6-0 vote ruled that the domestic rebar industry is materially injured as a result of dumped and subsidized rebar imports from Turkey and Mexico.
In August the ITC found that domestic oil country tubular goods or OCTG producers were materially damaged by dumped and subsidized imports of OCTG from South Korea and 5 other countries and duties have been assessed by the Commerce Department.
Nucor is the market leader in serving these highly valued customers in the pipe and tube industry.
In July the Commerce Department issued positive preliminary determinations on dumping duties against wire rod imports from China.
While we are encouraged by these several rulings we realize that more work remains in a fight for effective and timely enforcement of rules-based trade.
Supporting our mission is the indisputable fact that our domestic industry is among the lowest-cost producers of steel in the world.
As always our team will remain focused on executing our strategies for profitable long-term growth in whatever economic and steel industry conditions we face.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
John? Thanks Jim.
During the third quarter our team stayed focused on what is under our control today.
I'm very encouraged by our performance in the just-completed quarter and first 9 months of 2014.
Nucor delivered solid earnings growth in what are still very challenging steel market conditions.
First and foremost each day we pursue continual improvement in the job we do taking care of all of Nucor's customers.
At the same time our team continues to aggressively implement our strategy of investing for long-term profitable growth.
I will now update you on our recent achievements.
Our targeted acquisition of Gallatin Steel is a significant step forward in building a long-term earnings power of our sheet mill group and Nucor overall.
Here are some of the key strategic benefits.
Nucor -- excuse me Gallatin enhances Nucor's leadership position in the flat-rolled hot band products market.
Gallatin strengthens Nucor's capabilities to serve the flat-rolled customers in the growing pipe and tube industry.
Gallatin broadens our footprint in the Midwest region which is the largest flat-rolled consuming market in the United States.
Gallatin's location on the Ohio River strongly complements our raw materials strategy as it is well positioned to receive DRI from our Louisiana facility.
Gallatin represents Nucor's fourth sheet mill located on the U.S.
river system broadening our commercial reach and access to our materials.
Gallatin's annual capacity of approximately 1.8 million tons increases our hot-rolled sheet steel capacity by 16% to more than 13 million tons.
Gallatin also fits well with Nucor's footprint of downstream businesses that consume and process flat-rolled steel.
Finally Gallatin provides a number of future strategic growth options for Nucor.
Most importantly we share a strong cultural compatibility with our new teammates at Nucor Steel Gallatin.
Particularly significant is the common unrelenting focus on safety quality and productivity.
We are very excited about the many opportunities ahead for profitable growth with having the Gallatin team join the Nucor family.
In the fourth quarter our Nucor-Yamato structural steel mill will begin prime production of its new sheet piling sections.
Results from the production trials completed in the third quarter were very positive.
This $115 million project expands our product offerings to include new wider piling sections that are lighter and stronger covering more area at a lower installed cost.
This investment strengthens our market position in the piling business.
It also allows us to realize more synergies from our strategic 2012 acquisition of piling distributor Skyline Steel.
Our Nucor Steel Berkeley sheet mill's successful start-up this year of its wide light capital project continues to build momentum.
During the third quarter our Berkeley team produced new wider products for several customers in the appliance and lawn and garden offerings.
This $95 million investment provides Berkeley the capability to roll gauges as thin as 0.042 inches which is the lightest hot-rolled gauge capability of any sheet mill in the Southern U.S.
market.
Berkeley's capabilities also provide a finished width of up to 72 inches.
We estimate the size of the new market segment now available to Berkeley to be approximately 4 million tons annually.
During the third quarter our new Louisiana DRI facility continued to work through equipment adjustments that will improve yield and conversion costs.
There is no question that the start of this plant has been very challenging in the early going but that's no different from what we experienced in starting off our first DRI plant which is located in Trinidad.
What has been different with the Louisiana start-up has been the additional burden of today's low raw material pricing environment.
However a significant positive achievement in the start-up this year at Nucor Steel Louisiana is the outstanding quality achieved by our team.
As we have discussed in previous calls Louisiana has set new world-class quality standards for DRI with metallization rates of 96% and carbon content exceeding 4%.
That's why our flat-rolled and SBQ steel mills are eager to consume as much of Louisiana's output as they can get.
As a result of our cumulative learning curve advances and resulting equipment adjustments we expect to realize significant improvement in the financial performance of the Louisiana DRI plant by the end of this year.
It also remains our view that our expanded DRI capacity combined with our natural gas investments uniquely positions Nucor for profitable long-term growth in the higher value-added sheet plate and SBQ markets.
Recent significant declines in iron ore pricing accompanied by relatively more stable scrap pricing currently supports our confidence in the value of Nucor's DRI-based raw materials strategy.
We are very encouraged by the Nucor team's progress in the third quarter but we are never satisfied.
That is why the more than 22 000 men and women of Nucor remain strongly focused on execution and delivering strong returns on the valuable capital entrusted to us by our shareholders.
As has been true throughout Nucor's history our company's best years are still ahead of us.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor and sharing your valuable time with us this afternoon.
We would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So first question is on the trade case specifically the potential trade case I should say on cold-rolled products and some coated sheet products that we keep hearing about.
Kind of the latest I've heard is that there may be some disagreements amongst some of the mills that are involved in the case about the breadth of the case and that may be delaying it.
And I'm just hoping you guys could kind of give us an update and let us know what could debottleneck that process? Well I can't speak to others' opinions on this history but I can share with you Nucor's opinion.
When you look at the increase in cold-rolled imports this year they've increased by about 100%; galv has increased almost 50% year-over-year.
As I mentioned to you on the last time on the last conference call I have been spending a lot of time in Washington and I've gained more confidence in our elected leaders' ability to connect the dots between the illegally traded products and the slow recovery in the economy.
That said specific to your question we are working with our trade attorneys in Washington to collect the data that we're going to need to file the case at the appropriate time.
We are confident in our ability to present a good case and we will present that case aggressively and we will aggressively pursue critical circumstances with the associated retroactive penalties.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just one question on DRI.
How do you when you report losses how do you factor in the revenue? Are you basing that off of a discount to pig iron price? Or is it more based on some mix of scrap? How should we think about that? We price internally based off of pig iron with a value-in-use adjustment.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then one last question maybe on Gallatin.
Have you got any chance to kind of go in there and see what commercial practices have been like? Is there any changes that you think you might want to make going forward? Well we have just closed just a few weeks ago so we haven't had a lot of time to go in and look at what they have been doing.
What I can tell you is -- what I can speak to is what they will be doing more in the future and that's working with our commercial team as we always do to present a single one-Nucor approach to the marketplace.
We will follow our practice of not having any CRU or any index-minus pricing in the marketplace.
And we will continue to provide a great value to our customers at a fair price.
We're anxious to have them join our team.
As I mentioned during my comments it does give us a better presence in the Midwest.
It supports our mill in Crawfordsville.
It's on the water and it's going to give us ability to reach into the Southeast market as well as the Midwest market.
And we have a very strong position today in the growing pipe and tube market and this just enhances that.
They have a great position in that also.
We share some customers but frankly not many.
So this is a great chance for us to expand our geographical reach to expand our product breadth and frankly to expand our customer base.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Jim I wanted to ask you a question about your comment earlier about the U.S.
steel-making cost advantage.
As you know the domestic scrap prices are about flat while in the international markets Turkey scrap import cost is down $50.
China is down $100 and then the drop in iron ore and met coal translates to about $100 per ton drop for blast furnace costs.
How do you see this playing out either from a market standpoint or actions that Nucor can take to try to narrow some of the gap? Okay well let me -- I'll give Jim a chance to add any comments that he wants at the end but I will -- let me start by making a couple of comments.
First of all as you mentioned because of the lower-priced scrap in areas like Turkey and all those places the United States will not -- and combined with the higher dollar value the United States will not be exporting more scrap at all to those regions which will give us a bit of an excess of scrap here in the United States which should help our scrap pricing of our product.
But bear in mind that scrap although it's a significant input cost it's one of many input costs particularly in electric arc furnaces where scrap is consumed.
Electrical energy it's a very large cost and we have a significant cost advantage here in the United States compared to those regions that you mentioned.
Natural gas could be another example where we have an energy benefit.
As I've mentioned a couple of times in the past one of the greatest benefits we have is the productivity and the ingenuity of the American worker.
And here at Nucor we have the added benefit of the DRI which in fact benefits from the lower iron ore pricing that you mentioned in other regions of the country.
When you think about how iron ore and scrap has behaved over the last year it's kind of an interesting situation.
Iron ore pricing is down about 42%.
Scrap pricing is down about 14% so far this year.
So that kind of points to the benefit.
With those kind of numbers it pays to be able to have an input into your furnaces that's based on iron ore pricing such as our DRI.
And I would also point out that that's the way it is today but that reverses.
It has reversed in the past; it will reverse again in the future which again points to one of the great strengths of our DRI strategy and our overall raw materials strategy by having both the DJ Joseph as part of the Nucor family and the ability to produce 4.5 million tons of DRI.
We have the flexibility to flip back our product -- our scrap mix if that relationship between scrap and iron ore does reverse.
So kind of a long-winded answer to your question certainly we are cognizant of the situation with iron ore pricing and scrap pricing in countries that we compete with.
As long as they continue to play fair we feel confident because of the reasons that I've mentioned that we will compete successfully against them.
We say it all the time we can compete against any company in the world and do so well.
It's more difficult when we have to compete against governments and we will not allow that to happen.
Let me just add one thing John and that is Brian when you think about this question at any point in time there could be temporary inflection points where raw material costs whether it's scrap or iron ore move in different markets to different places but they eventually equalizes -- they eventually equalize and balance each other out.
And so my comments about our -- the U.S.
being a low-cost producer is not at this exact moment today compared to everybody; but just over time if you look at the historical numbers it's well-documented that the U.S.
is one of the low-cost producers in the world.
One more comment if I may on this.
Obviously you're leading to up to the point that well will all of this result in an even greater influx of imported steel into the United States? And certainly we're keeping our eye on that situation.
Jim's point about the raw material commodity eventually equalizing well the same happens with pricing the products.
We'll monitor carefully what's happening with imports and you'll see that gap that exists today in pricing begin to narrow.
It'll narrow as a result of both the domestic price moderating and the foreign input price increasing.
When you combine that with what's happening on some of the trade cases and the transportation issues that you see in the United States today once the product reaches a new port all of that combined we feel very confident that we can compete successfully despite the point that you made about the raw material costs in our competitive nations.
Research Division</strong> Good.
That was a very comprehensive answer.
And maybe I could just switch topics here quickly.
Just on the realized pricing side you guys are getting -- the core-on-core increase in pricing is a bit better than what we've seen in the markets and I was wondering if there's a way for you guys to help us understand what portion of that might be due to some of these value-add projects you put in place: wide and light and heat treat normalizing plate? And then how much of it would be more markets related? I'm not sure that I could split -- spread that out but I would -- but I'd make a few comments just to support the fact that it is a large portion of the value-added that we invested in.
At least in the plate business.
At least in the plate business.
But I would also comment that it's more than just that.
It's the value that we bring to our customers.
It's the quality that we deliver.
It's the service that we provide.
It's the metallurgical support that I believe is the gold standard in the industry that we can give to our customers.
And it's our focus on on-time delivery which brings value.
All of those items bring value to our customers.
Brian further to those points I don't think we've really seen the benefits at all yet from the sheet piling project.
And we've just started to see the benefits from the new lighter gauge sheet steel at Berkeley.
We're seeing some benefit but again we're early in the process of getting the full benefit of that project.
We guess in the SBQ side we're probably about halfway towards achieving some of the benefits of the things we've done there not so much in the volume but more on in terms of the pricing value-add element.
And of course there's going to be a volume benefit coming as well.
I think -- maybe John you could speak about the status of the caster upgrades at both Memphis and Nebraska.
Well we've completed both okay.
Memphis is finished and of course [ph] strand is completed.
On the fifth strand in Nebraska we're in the process of shutting down now to make the final installation.
So they're moving along.
We feel really good about when that was completed all of the upgrades at Darlington.
And we've got a little bit of tweaking to do but basically we've completed that.
So I would say that for the most part by the end of the year we will have completed virtually all of our SBQ modifications to add value.
And let me just throw in one more point to Jim's comments which were spot on.
But bear in mind that the improvements that you're seeing in our performance as Jim pointed out we're just beginning to see the benefit of the investments that we're making.
These -- all the improvements that you're seeing in our margins and our profitability are happening in a market that is still extremely challenged.
We see this year the marketplace in nonresidential construction having improved a little bit over last year and we expect even further improvement next year.
But when we see those markets return to the full strength that we know will inevitably be achieved that's when you're going to see the full impact of these investments are bearing fruit for our company.
Our next question comes from Matt Murphy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could comment on what you're seeing in the structural market.
I know you had a high year-over-year comparison but only category where it was slightly weak year-over-year.
Just wondering how you're seeing that market.
The structural market has always been a good market for us.
It's holding pretty steady.
We've seen it pick up a little bit this year.
We expect next year to also be a little bit better in the structural market as we see the continued improvements in nonresidential construction.
I would also tell you that we're really excited about again just the beginnings of what we see from our piling project.
We expect a good benefit from that.
In terms of this year's performance relative -- you asked about why we seem to have been a little bit off last year's performance.
It's a result of all those shutdowns that we had at NYS installing the wider piling project that we've mentioned several times.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So still some pickup from the shutdown.
Okay got it.
And Jim just on SG&amp;A at $153 million this quarter was there anything in particular driving that up? Well we have a highly variable compensation system profit-sharing system.
So when profits go up our profit-sharing expense goes up.
10% of pretax is how we fund our employees' retirement accounts.
And of course the other thing that went through there was the charge that we'd noted before on the write-off of assets.
It was $0.03 per share.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> We're starting to hear a lot more enthusiasm over non-res and I thought you might have sounded a little bit more chipper on the topic.
So I guess I wanted to dive into that a little bit more and ask you about long products in general.
Specifically can you hold onto margins? Scrap prices are definitely falling.
You guys are importing it and so that can help offset some other weakness.
But just wondering if margins on long products might be holding up better if non-res is recovering.
Well we think that -- and this is our opinion and also the opinion of the experts that go out and give these kind of estimates.
We think this year -- by the end of this year relative compared to last year you'll see somewhere around a 7% or 8% improvement in non-residential construction based on square footage.
And we anticipate next year seeing maybe the same kind of growth maybe a little bit better somewhere between 7% 8% 9% growth in square footage next year.
So that is certainly helping to support not only our structural business but also our downstream businesses our Vulcraft and Verco business and frankly our building systems business also.
So yes we see a pickup this year compared to last year.
We see further improvement going forward into next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the marketing -- go ahead sorry.
I was just going to say Timna our comments are generally focused more on the quarter and we don't generally say that much about what's happening in the future.
Obviously the fourth quarter is going to have a seasonal slowdown.
But the comment I made in the script or I talked about the building momentum is this idea that an improvement of 8% this year another improvement of 8% 10% next year in square footage orders yes there's going to be some value to that; and so we are in agreement that there is some nice momentum happening in non-res and starting to get back to a level that is more sustainable.
In terms of the margin specifically certainly we're going to work really hard to maintain that margin.
We think as we mentioned in the script that in the fourth quarter we'll see some seasonal adjustments that happen every year combination of the holidays and the weather.
But we expect it to come back strong in the first quarter and we look forward to a good year next year and we anticipate being able to hold onto those margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
And then if I could just one more.
Clearly you're hinting at this point at least a pretty low CapEx number and assuming this growth that we're talking about a lot of cash flow.
Just so can you remind us about how you're thinking about opportunities for that use of cash? Would you consider the special dividend that you've done in the past? Do you like the M&amp;A opportunities that have presented themselves maybe further ones ahead? If you could just give us a categorization of what you're seeing out there.
Well I think it's -- I'll speak -- I'll let Jim speak to the special dividends but I think it's -- I think I know where he's going to go with that one okay and appropriately so.
Frankly we're in a growth mode.
We're a growth company and we look for opportunities to grow the company.
We believe that there's still plenty of opportunities out there.
Remember that as we talked about in the past if we look at the way our company is structured basically in the upstream what we call core or side stream businesses and our downstream businesses we have numerous platforms in which we can grow and that just multiplies the number of opportunities that we can look at out there.
So we see opportunities downstream coming up that we're looking at.
We have some upstream opportunities that we're continuing to look at.
There's always the potential of expanding our DRI facility once we get past some of these typical start-up issues that we've been facing.
And of course you've seen what we've done with Gallatin.
That was a great strategic opportunity which not only provided us benefits today but positions us for other growth opportunities in that region.
So I would not be looking to say that we're going to have a special dividend.
I would say that a strong cash-generating position will be used to continue to grow the company both in volume and in margin-enhancing improvements to our existing mills.
And when the right acquisitions become available at the right price we stand ready to aggressively pursue and be successful in acquiring them.
And the only thing I'd add Timna is that we strongly believe in our dividend and a strong base dividend and a really strong earnings cycle.
We will contemplate the possibility of a supplemental dividend.
We're not there yet.
We need to be north of $1.25 per share before we start thinking about something like that.
Our next question comes from Sal Tharani with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions on DRI.
First of all forgive me if you have already -- just your DRI cost was much higher -- I'm sorry the start-up cost was much higher.
I was wondering did something special happen versus what you gave as the guidance? Let me take that one on Jim okay because I'll address some of the -- I'll just kind of give you a little bit of history of the start-up and that has obviously impacted our costs that you're referring to.
And there's no doubt we've had some start-up issues with our equipment in Louisiana.
But I got tell you we've been very happy with the technology.
You all have to remember this is not new technology.
This is proven technology.
And this year it's the first year of operation and we've had -- in this first year we've had some issues but we've also had some periods of operation where the plant operated over 90% of capacity with excellent quality; quality that frankly can only be described as world class.
Now frankly I would say it's quality that we define as world-class quality.
And let's remember that year-to-date we produced about 1.2 million tons of DRI in just the first year of production.
We expect to produce another 500 000-or-so tons in the fourth quarter.
And when we've met that expectation and we believe we will we will have produced about 1.7 million tons of DRI or about 70% of the capacity rating of that plant in the first year of operation.
And that's operating at 70% of capacity in the first year with outstanding quality.
Now we've had some start-up issues and let's maybe take a minute since you've asked about the impact of those to talk about it.
We did have a design issue that we had to deal with in the second quarter of this year.
We rectified that design issue.
That was the flow feeders we removed them.
We removed them to improve the yield and the productivity of the facility.
When we accomplished that when we took them out and started up we saw that we did in fact kill the problem.
We achieved the expected improvements in both productivity and in yield.
The start-up's strong in the second quarter but a few weeks into the second quarter -- excuse me third quarter we experienced a failure of several wells in the process gas heater tubes which was frankly completely unexpected.
We repaired the wells and the plant operated in a very stable manner for the next 56 continuous days with excellent quality.
And late in Q3 we experienced another issue with our process gas heater completely unrelated to the first issue of the wells on the tubes.
They're a refractory problem again in the process heater creating a potential for overheating and damaging that piece of equipment.
So we made a decision to shut down and perform the repairs before we damaged the equipment.
The plant was down for about 2 weeks.
We made the necessary repairs.
Since the repairs in the third quarter the plant has been operating very stable and we are confident in the completeness of the repairs that we've made to the gas processor.
Both unexpected issues both problems were on the same piece of equipment a single part of the DRI production process: a process gas heater.
The other plant parts of the plant very complex plant have been operating with great reliability.
I would also mention since I'm on the topic here and since you asked the question that these issues are not uncommon for a start-up.
Remember we had some similar issues in Trinidad.
There the problem was a reformer; different piece of equipment but very similar problems.
We overcame them and today the plant in Trinidad is running extremely well and with good quality coming out of Trinidad also.
So that's a little basket of color around why you're seeing the start-up costs higher than we might have expected at the start of the project.
You want to make a comment about...
Yes.
And specifically to the comparison to what we were guiding Sal because our guidance was obviously for a smaller number.
We were off by about $0.04.
About $0.02 was the impact of the 2-week outage that happened right after we gave our guidance.
And then the other $0.02 was related to -- each quarter end with a major capital project we go through the details of the expenses that have been capitalized.
And with all the work that was done in the third quarter on flow feeders and other things we identified expenses that had been capitalized earlier in the quarter in July and August that we had to reverse into expenses that we didn't anticipate when we gave the guidance on September 17.
So half of it was because of the issue that John talked about the last one with the heat process...
Process gas.
Process gas whatever they are.
And the other $0.02 because of reviewing fixed asset accounting.
Research Division</strong> Great.
No this is good color appreciate it.
And running 70% of the first year is certainly a remarkable achievement.
John you mentioned about the...
Particularly this is the largest DRI plant in the world okay that we're starting up.
So we are very pleased with that.
Research Division</strong> Certainly certainly.
You also mentioned John that the way you look at your cost is -- or pricing is pig iron less a value-in-use adjustment.
Do you -- have you shared or would you like to share the number what that number is for the value-in-use adjustment? That would be a no.
So it could change over time.
I mean we have a fixed number we're using now but as we assess how DRI works in the process we could come to the conclusion it needs to change.
So we're doing basically what we think the real value is.
Yes let me -- maybe I was a little bit too blunt there.
Obviously that -- at some point we believe that there could be a merchant market for the DRI so we don't want to give out of that information.
But I will say this that when we went into the project we had a certain value-in-use penalty in mind and again as a result of the quality of the DRI that's coming out of Louisiana it has performed much better than we anticipated in our furnaces.
I think I mentioned in the past that we've seen a productivity increase.
We've seen a decrease in our energy consumption as a result of the better quality coming out of that.
We've seen a reduction in our electrical consumption.
We've seen a reduction in our refractory life -- I mean an improvement in our refractory life excuse me a reduction in our cost of refractors in the furnace.
So we're really pleased very very pleased with the way that the product is performing in the furnace.
And to Jim's point as we continue to refine our process in Louisiana we believe we can even hone in more carefully on a higher-quality product.
And of course as we learn to use the product more efficiently in our existing furnaces by changing our melt shop practices that will also have a positive impact on the value-in-use.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one last thing you mentioned that at Gallatin you can do further improvements over time or move up the value chain or something.
I was just wondering that value you're going to get out of Gallatin in the future is that expanding the capacity? Or is moving up the value chain in terms of putting cold over galvanized capacity or...
It would be moving up the value chain.
There's many possibilities -- many possible ways of accomplishing that.
At some point we might put further processing in in the plant or around the plant.
I would also tell you that they've done a great job of establishing themselves in the pipe and tube market and known for good quality.
As you know some of our other sheet mills have expanded into higher-value products such as automotive appliance lawn and garden.
There is absolutely no reason why we cannot transfer that knowledge from our mills to the mills at -- to the Gallatin mill.
One area that I would specifically mention is the phenomenal work we've done at our other mills with high-strength low-alloy steels and advanced high-strength steels.
Those all go into additional margin and are value-added products that we can transfer without a lot of investment into the Gallatin facility.
Our next question comes from Nathan Littlewood with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Sal did ask most of my DRI questions but I just had one on the gas hedging.
Jim I was surprised to hear you say just now that you had recently entered into some financial hedges for gas.
My understanding previously had been that the Encana JV basically provided you with pretty much 100% of your gas requirements.
Could you just help me sort of bridge the gap there and maybe [indiscernible] requirement...
Yes it's good for 2014.
I'm sorry the process -- we have over 300 wells producing right now.
And those wells provide enough gas to cover full usage this year.
And as we go into 2015 I think we start the year with enough gas to cover it.
But as the year goes on the wells will be in a decline curve.
If there comes a point and we're not saying there's a specific point but we've got a -- quarter-by-quarter there's a different amount that at some point will start being just a little bit short and we're hedging that portion that will become short.
But I don't think that even by the end of 2015 what's the -- it's still more than 50% is coming from...
[ph] Yes I don't know the exact percentage...
It's somewhere in the neighborhood of 50% of gas is still coming from those 300 wells.
They might be -- it's probably higher than that.
[ph] I think Nathan the -- as we look at -- in Jim's comments in the prepared comments he referred to the natural gas pricing environment today.
And really it's a fantastic option that we have that we can produce gas from our own wells or hedge ourselves through a financial derivative depending on which makes the best economic value.
So we can always go back to drilling.
The program we have available to us if the economics are right you are correct.
We have enough gas that we will provide ourselves the DRI hedge for decades.
It's just in the current moment the economics would drive which is the best opportunity or option to cover that gas usage.
And just to clarify because we've said in the past that the program would not only cover all of our DRI needs but it would also provide enough gas to cover all of our steel mill gas consumption needs also.
And -- but Joe is right.
This gas isn't going anywhere.
It's in the ground.
Today the gas price is somewhere around $3.75 or in that neighborhood so we can get out of the ground then.
We were able to secure a hedge which really gave us a better economic opportunity to leave it in the ground for what we believe will be the day that gas will ultimately be more expensive.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just on this DRI plant a bit further then I mean you guys are obviously making sort of strategic decisions and thinking quite a lot about the raw material input costs here.
Obviously the bigger part of your cost base though is not gas at all; it's actually iron ore.
We're now in an environment where we've got the lowest commodity price for 6 or so years.
Asset values for iron ore businesses are probably as low as they've been in a decade.
How are you thinking about potentially moving into iron ore at this point? Is that...
Again as I mentioned with all potential acquisitions or opportunities it's a function of the value of the asset that we're looking at and the price that it takes to own it.
So are we looking? Certainly okay? Is the environment today a whole lot better than it was 4 years ago? Absolutely okay? Another -- this has been another example where Nucor's patience and tenacity has paid off.
And we talked many times about Nucor's long-standing practice of buying during the downturns.
This is clearly a downturn for that asset and we -- it's given us new opportunities to take a look at.
I'm not going to comment on anything specifically but certainly we are looking at those opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And are you having to go out and seek those sort of things? Or have you got people coming in knocking on your door so to speak? Knocking on the door let's just leave it at that.
Our next question comes from Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Had a question on the automotive market.
Can you give us a feel for how much of your volume including some of the downstream products went into that market maybe through the first 3 quarters of this year? Yes we're running -- if you look at sheet -- I'll answer the question from 2 perspectives.
I would answer in terms of our sheet products and I would answer in terms of our SBQ.
In both cases about 11% -- 10% or 11% of our total production of SBQ and sheet go into those markets.
So 10% of our SBQ production is going into automotive today.
About 10% or 11% of our sheet production is going into automotive today.
I've mentioned in the past that our goal was 15% so we're working to grow that.
I can tell you we have many trials and qualifications going on in both -- with both SBQ and with sheet.
And we remain confident that we'll be able to grow in those -- in the automotive market which as you know is an extremely strong market.
It has been growing.
The market -- the automotive market has been growing and frankly we've been growing each year within that market.
So we expect that to continue.
Some of it is a result of the investments that we've made.
One example would be the quality line at our mill in Memphis.
That has really gone a long way towards getting us qualified at our Memphis mill in automotive applications.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And I just had a question off of Nathan's here on the gas side.
So as the year goes on in 2015 that you may be a little bit more than 50% practically.
Were just you talking about the DRI facility? Or were you talking about your steel side? I'm talking about the DRI facility with the gas coming out of the wells.
And what I meant to say is by the end of '16 because we've done hedges through '16.
It's by the end of '16 that it gets to be about 50% hedged.
It's much higher than 50% for all of '15.
Research Division</strong> So you're just talking about the DRI you're not talking about the steel mills? Exactly.
Yes.
Correct.
Our next question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro with Macquarie.
I just had a question for you on the Russian news yesterday and then also for Jim on the -- if I could give Jim the first one.
I see the $45 million of start-up costs in the DRI.
Jim were there any other start-up costs that you could quantify in the quarter? I know you have a few other projects going right? Yes nothing else that has resulted in any material start-up costs.
Okay.
And then -- so John on this Russian deal right I can see how the hot-rolled coil and plate get tariffed pretty heavily and that's good news for the market.
I'm looking at the 75% of their inputs that are in the form of slab and I know the integrated mills buy a lot of those.
I know Nucor probably doesn't buy those because you have thin slab mills and you probably can't roll the thick slabs.
I'm just wondering do you think those slabs are dumped and possibly subject to trade cases in the future? Well as you mentioned and you're correct we don't buy slabs so we're not that intimately involved with trade cases that are going on on slabs.
So I really don't want to comment too much on that.
I'll make a general comment though about the termination of the suspension agreement.
We see that as a positive certainly and it's more than just taking the tons out of the markets although there's a lot of tons that will be coming out of the markets at that low price.
I mean I think year-to-date there is somewhere around 700 000 tons of Russian pile coming in and -- but the more important factor frankly is by the termination of the suspension agreement it raises the floor of the sheet pricing in the market.
They were certainly -- the Russians were certainly setting the floor.
There was a very low floor.
By taking their ability to do that out of the market that's going to be a plus for us and for our competitors.
Our next question comes from Jorge Beristain with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just following up on one of your earlier comments made about the spread of U.S.
pricing domestic versus imports and that that convergence could be met through a slight decline in U.S.
prices but maybe an increase in foreign prices.
And I was just wondering if you could just flesh out your thinking as to why you think foreign prices may be coming up.
Well I think it's a case of necessity.
At some point even with companies competing companies that are getting subsidies you've got to make some kind of a return.
And some of the pricing that we're seeing from some of these companies today are just not sustainable.
We believe that they are not sustainable even with the government support.
And frankly if they depend more and more upon the government support more government subsidies that just enhances our ability to take action on the trade front because obviously that's a violation of the trade laws.
So I think it's a combination of their costs.
They've got to show some kind of a profit and today their pricing is frankly unsustainable.
So we think that they're going to have to make some adjustments there.
They see increasing costs just as we do and frankly they've got to be careful on the trade side.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then another question was just if you could kind of talk about the context.
You're obviously looking forward to a recovering non-res and ultimately residential construction market in the U.S.
and we haven't really seen the steel sector at full throttle since '06 '07.
And do you think that there's enough growth in the market that imports will sort of be held at bay or in kind of percentage terms they've kind of taken your historic highs again and that there's structurally reasons in the U.S.
market why imports will just level off whether it's trade case related or just the ability of the end consumers to rely too heavily on imports that's just capped by the natural way the business is done in the U.S.? If you could just maybe talk to that point about will imports level off do you think? And is the growth sufficient enough in the domestic U.S.
market for all participants? First comment I do believe that the non-residential construction will continue to improve and that will provide a better market.
To your second comment there certainly are some issues that make it tougher for imports these days than they have in the past.
One great example would be transportation in the United States.
It's one thing to get the product onto the ports of the U.S.
It's another to get it delivered to the final customer.
Trucking is an issue.
Frankly we're seeing some evidence of delayed deliveries at the ports due to congestion.
We've got the winter months coming up that weather becomes a function or becomes an issue.
So when you look at the final customer bringing in an import he's got to look at several risks.
I mean obviously he takes on risks in doing that: the delayed deliveries the production delays or disruptions.
Clearly if there's a -- when you start talking about the higher-valued mark products if there's a quality problem the problem resolution becomes much more difficult.
And frankly we're seeing there's always a risk of unexpected increased costs in freight and other issues.
And we serve a large portion of the market particularly in our structural business the fabricated markets which really they cannot rely on inflected systems.
They are not practical for them.
So as we see non-residential construction continue to improve clearly the business for fabricated will continually improve and our ability to serve them as a domestic supplier will continually improve.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Lane with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Given the steep decline in iron ore prices and lower natural gas prices could you provide an update as for the likelihood that you'll move forward with the second DRI module in Louisiana? I'm imagining it's probably looking more and more likely.
But in regards to the timing would you be waiting for concrete evidence that you've established profitability with only the first module in place? Certainly we would be looking at the performance of the first module.
As I mentioned we've had some unexpected failures.
We've gone in and we were able to correct them.
We would want to run -- a couple of things.
Number one we want to get more faith in the reliability of the operation.
Our team in Louisiana they've done a great job of fighting through the issues but there's still work to be done in how to perfect the operation of that furnace.
Before we moved on with another one we want to make sure we understood all the potential issues with that technology.
We have to make a decision frankly whether we stayed with that technology or because of a competitive pricing situation move back to the Midrex.
Certainly there's been a -- we would expect there to be some spirited competition for that second vessel.
I hope all of the potential suppliers are listening.
And we will move forward when we gain confidence as you said in the lower input costs of the iron ore and the natural gas although we don't worry about the natural gas because we have our own supply of natural gas.
So it's really taking a look at the iron ore picture but currently we believe that we're going to see the lower iron ore pricing probably for the next 3 to 5 years to be certain.
And as we mentioned earlier there might opportunities during that time for us to make an investment where we can secure the pricing for iron ore.
That would be a positive factor in moving forward with the second unit.
So those are the major issues we would use to determine when we would move forward with the next unit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just another question.
Could you provide some color as to what mix of scrap to iron ore derivatives the Gallatin operation currently applies and then what supply contracts are in place? And then also does your plan for adding value to Gallatin involve applying the DRI you produce in-house? Or will you maintain the supply arrangements that are already in place for those non-scrap iron units? Well currently Gallatin's mix is about 80% scrap and 20% alternative iron units.
We think that -- we would see that increasing to a much larger percentage after we had time to install the necessary feed equipment.
That said we certainly would feed the Gallatin facility from our in-house supplier.
I'm not sure what contracts they have for the supplier from other sources.
Nucor is a high integrity company.
We will honor it if they exist.
But frankly we're not -- we believe it's minimal if they have any at all.
And bear in mind that we have a major scrap processing facility right up in that same area so it's -- we see synergies to be gained from our DJ Joseph family member with the Gallatin organization also.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to John Ferriola for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you and let me just conclude by saying thank you to all of our customers.
Thank you to our shareholders for your confidence and your investment in us.
And thank you to our customers.
Obviously without your business we would not be in business.
And certainly I want to say thank you to all of our 22 000 teammates for what you do every day what you contribute to our company.
Thank you for what you do and most importantly thank you for doing it safely.
Thanks for your interest in our company.
Have a great day.
And that does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you for all your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2014 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions].
Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found on Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
And for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan Joe Stratman Dave Sumoski and Chad Utermark.
The entire executive management team would like to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for a job extremely well done in 2014.
You worked hard worked smart worked together and most importantly worked safely to deliver solid improvements in our performance despite steel industry conditions that remained very challenging.
I am pleased to report that full year 2014 net income increased significantly by 46% to $714 million.
We also achieved very robust growth in our cash generated from operations.
2014 operating cash flow represents our strongest performance since 2008 demonstrating the strength of our business model.
Thats the goal of more than 23 000 team mates continued their excellent work implementing our company strategy for profitable growth.
Subsequent to the last cyclical peak in the steel industry Nucor has invested significant capital in a large number of projects have improved our core structure and expand our product portfolios to include more value and higher margin profits.
In 2014 we began to see some of the early benefits from these strategic investments.
There are more to come.
In 2015 these investments will enhance our ability and navigate through the current challenges presented by energy industry turbulence and high levels of [indiscernible].
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to review Nucor's fourth quarter performance and financial position.
Following Jim's comments I will update you on current market conditions and execution of our strategy for the long-term profitable growth.
Jim? Thanks John.
Fourth quarter of 2014 earnings of $0.65 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of $0.50 to $0.55 per diluted share.
This outperformance was largely driven by better than expected results from our sheet mills joist and decking business and our direct produce iron plant in Trinidad.
Newly acquired Nucor Steel Gallatin made solid contributions to our fourth quarter earnings and cash flow even after absorbing about $9 million or $0.02 per diluted share after tax our purchase accounting expenses early in the quarter.
We are encouraged by our fourth quarter performance given the strong seasonal and other influences dampening volumes during the period.
Total sales turns to outside customers decline 10.5% in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
A strong full year 2014 earnings improvement highlights the value of Nucors industry leading product diversity.
We are not Americas only manufacturer of all four major steel mill products  bars beams plate and sheet.
Our steel mill shipments of 22 million tonnes increased more than 6% year-over-year which is more than double the U.S.
steel industrys overall growth rate.
The increase steel mill volume is further leveraged by steel mill metal margin expansion of $32 per tonne.
As a $37 per tonne gain in our average steel sales price are based at $5 per tonne increase and an average cost of iron units consumed.
In addition to the strong profit growth at our core steel making operations Nucors downstream steel products segment more than double its profitability in 2014.
These businesses are benefitting from the initial stages of recovery in non-residential construction markets particularly strong volume growth which was achieved in our joist decking and rebar fabrication products.
Nucors 2014 earnings improvement was achieved despite significant operating loss at our facility at our DRI facility in Louisiana.
Nucor Steel Louisianas 2014 operating loss total $135 million or $0.28 per diluted share after tax and $35 million or $0.07 per diluted share after tax for the fourth quarter.
Production operations at Louisiana facility have remain suspended since the process gas heater experienced a failure in early November due to the lead times on a specialty steel pipes that must be replaced.
We estimate the plant will not resume operations until late in the first quarter.
The process gas heater is not part of the DRI technology utilized by Louisiana but it is ancillary equipment required to operate plant.
The DRI technology stock has worked well and established new world-class quality levels as measured by metallization rates and carbon content.
Although Louisiana has been a challenging start up it will be a major step forward in the implementation of our long term raw material strategy.
The recent declines in iron ore pricing and the fourth quarter profits generated by our DRI facility in Trinidad provide further validation to our work over the past decade establishing and growing Nucors DRI production capacity.
A quick comment of our tax rate can be confusing due to the impacted profits from non-controlling interests.
After adjusting our profits belonging to our business partners effective tax rate was 33.6% from the fourth quarter and 35.3% for the full year of 2014.
Nucors financial position remains strong at the end of 2014.
Our gross debt-to-capital ratio was 37%.
Cash and short-term investments totaled more than $1.1 billion at the close of 2014 putting our net debt-to-capital ratio at approximately 31%.
Our next significant debt maturity is not until December of 2017.
Nucor's strong liquidity position also includes our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving Credit Facility which remains undrawn.
The facility does not mature until August 2018.
Nucor is the only North American steel producer to hold an investment grade credit rating.
John mentioned our very robust operating cash flow generation in 2014.
Cash provided by operations of approximately $1.3 billion comfortably exceeded capital spending of $668 million combined with cash dividends paid to our shareholders of $475 million.
In 2014 Nucors strong balance sheet liquidity and cash flow again allowed us to take advantage of attractive opportunities to build long term earnings power.
During the fourth quarter we completed our purchase of all the equity of Gallatin Steel for cash purchase price of approximately $779 million.
The acquisition was funded from cash-on-hand and issuance of approximately $300 million of commercial paper.
By the end of 2014 we have reduced the acquisition related commercial paper outstanding by half to about $151 million.
For 2015 we estimate capital spending will be approximately $500 million.
Most of our recent larger scale projects had been completed or are nearing completion.
Our capital spending forecast also reflects our joint decision with Encana our natural gas working interest partner to extend our drilling suspension through the end of 2015.
This years capital spending for drilling will be very modest and consistent drilling of few wells require to maintain leasehold rights.
Depreciation and amortization for 2015 is expected to total about $700 million.
Nucors financial strength as evidenced by our strong balance sheet and healthy cash flow generation through the economic cycle is the deadlock foundation to our mission of growing shareholder value.
From this position of strength we are able to allocate our shareholders valuable capital to the most optimal or attractive usage at any given point in time.
Our financial strength allowed us to invest in capital projects during the severe industry downturns and the long-term returns are most attractive.
It allows us to make strategic acquisitions when the right assets at the right price become available in the market.
And just as importantly it allows us to reward our shareholders with a steadily growing base dividend supplemental dividends during up cycles and opportunistic share repurchases.
During the current downturn from 2009 to 2014 our investments totalled nearly $6 billion which is about two-thirds going to capital spending and one-third going to acquisitions.
These diverse projects all grow Nucor's long term earnings power by expanding our private portfolio into higher value added offerings that are less vulnerable to imports by improving our cost structure and finally by building upon our market leadership positions.
Growing stronger during downturns is a long tradition of Nucor.
It is how we achieve higher highs and profitability from on cyclical beat to the next.
With our disciplined approach to capital allocation and success in building long-term earnings power Nucor is able to reward shareholders with attractive cash returns are based on the dividend it has more than tripled to the end of 2007.
With the increase affected with next month's quarterly dividend payment Nucor has increased its base dividend every year since it first began paying dividends in 1973 for 42 consecutive years.
During the last industry up-cycle from 2004 to 2008 Nucor paid a total of $5 per share in supplemental dividends.
And over the 10 year period ending in 2014 Nucor returned a total of $6.7 billion of capital to our shareholders through dividends and opportunistic stock buybacks.
The Nucor teams unrelenting focus remains on continuing to build upon our record of being an effective steward of our shareholders valuable capital.
First quarter of 2015 earnings will be impacted by the significant headwinds that developed for the steel industry at the end of 2014.
The collapse in oil prices has triggered inventory reductions amongst pipe and tube producers an important customer group for Nucor and the overall steel industry.
At the same time imports are up automatically entering in 2015.
Now on the margins side we are continuing to see favorable trends in non-residential construction markets that will benefit both our steel mills and fabricated construction products.
Overall we expect first quarter 2015 earnings will decrease in fourth quarter to a level slightly exceeding the first quarter of 2014.
Nucor will again follow a practice of providing quantitative guidance in the final month of the quarter.
Whatever short-term economic and steel industry conditions we face in 2015 Nucors unrivalled position and strength will allow our team to continue to execute our proven strategies for delivering profitable long-term growth.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
John? Thanks Jim.
There certainly has been an abrupt change in the near term outlook in the recent weeks.
The two headwinds mentioned by Jim collapse in oil prices and surging imports will certainly challenge our team during the first quarter but that's okay.
Our team has faced and overcome challenges and adversity in the past.
And well do it again.
Energy is an extremely important driver of demand for steel in the U.S.
and here at Nucor.
Pipe and tube produces serving the energy markets represent approximately 10% of our steel mill shipments.
Meaningful production and inventory adjustments for our pipe and tube customers are currently underway.
Following this period of marketplace adjustment we believe the future remains very positive for local energy production in North America.
Importantly lower energy costs over time should support increased U.S.
manufacturing activity and consumer spending.
That is all very positive for Nucor.
The other major headwind is from the renewed surge in import activity.
Full year 2014 import of finished carbon steel products are estimated to have jumped to an unreasonable and unacceptable level of approximately 34 million tonnes.
Thats an increase of about 37% over 2013 and just under 2006s record level of 35 million tonnes.
Indications are that January 2015; finished steel imports may set a monthly record of around 3.9 million tonnes.
These short-term headwinds are significant but the Nucor is extremely well-positioned and navigate through them and we will.
Some key advantages of our Company come immediately to mind.
We will benefit from our low and highly variable cost structure.
Additionally we expect continued growth in non-residential construction activity.
Iron use are the largest single-cost item.
As previously mentioned profitability at our DRI plant Trinidad is benefiting from a large decline in iron ore cost.
After resuming production from the Louisiana facility we will also benefit from what appears to be an oversupplied oil market over at least the next several years.
Continuing on the raw material cost topic we believe that the U.S.
graph is currently significantly over priced versus iron ore and global scrap markets.
Based on increased imported steel penetration slack international demand for US scrap the strength of the U.S.
dollar and moderating U.S.
demand for [indiscernible].
We expect scrap prices to fall dramatically in early 2015.
During this period of transition Nucor will continue to utilize our unmatched global supply chain optimized all raw material costs.
Our investments in DRI and then scrap yards as well as access to international raw material markets hears Nucors best in class capabilities and profitability and approaching the market for iron units.
Non-residential construction markets count for more than half of the end-user demand of Nucors products as measured by square footage U.S.
non-residential construction activity increased by 6.7% in 2014.
We expect continued improvement in 2015.
There is worth nothing that 2014 square footage activity level represents only about 56% of 2007s peak activity level.
So there is plenty of room for additional improvement.
Whenever the steel industry and the economy see unexpected periods of turbulence like what we are experiencing now in early 2015 Nucor will do what Nucor always does.
We will grow bigger stronger and more profitable and we will outperform our competitors.
Here are the reasons why Nucor will do this.
Our balance sheet and twin cycle cash flow generation is unviable by any of our competitors.
Our industry leading product and market diversity continues to grow as we move up the value chain in all of our businesses.
The recent expansions in our offerings include normal lines and E-treated plates wider and lighter sheet steels additional SVQ and wire rod products and new filing sections.
All of these products are less impacted by our rationally priced imports.
Our low cost structure will benefit from increased DRI production capacity as our new Louisiana facility completes it start-up process this year.
Our commitment to achieve commercial excellence by leveraging Nucor's competitive advantages such as product diversity and operational flexibility to create more value for and build stronger relationships with each of our customers and most importantly Nucors employees the right people.
They are our companys greatest asset and our greatest competitive advantage.
Here are just a few of their 2014 achievements implementing our strategy of investing a long-term profitable growth.
In the fourth quarter our Nucor remodel structure steel mills began client production of its new sheet filing sections.
The initial output was sold to Skyline Steel a Thailand distributor and will be installed next month at a construction project in New Jersey.
Nucor model expanded its product portfolio to include wider filing sections that are wider and stronger covering more area at a lower install cost.
The market with these high value added mix products is currently [indiscernible].
In addition to taking advantage of Nucorean models world class structural steel manufacturing capabilities.
Our customers will benefit from this new domestic solution which will create valuable strategies with the other products and services offered by Skyline Steel.
Acquired in 2012 Skyline is the market leader in its business with an unreliable package of engineering support stocking locations processing centers and dedicated sales teams.
In 2014 Nucors Steel Hertford Countys plate mill leveraged their T-trading capabilities to capture a growing share of the market for value-added plate products.
For example in 2014 Hertford County has more than doubled its share of the bridge market during the current steel industry down.
Over the same period shipments to higher margin OEM customers have doubled as a percent of mills total volume.
These value-added products are also less vulnerable to pressure from commodity influence.
Our Nucor steel Berkeley sheet Mills successful start up in 2014of its wide light capital project continued to build momentum.
Shipments in the new wide light products totalled over a 120 000 tonnes in the first year.
Berkeley now has the lightest hot rolled gauge capacity capability of any sheet mill in the Southern U.S.
market and with a finished product width up to 72 inches.
We estimate the size of the new market segment now available to Berkeley to be approximately 4 million tonnes annually.
Of particular importance the upgrade allows Nucor to produce thinner high strength field grade that could be used to develop light weight automotive applications.
In closing based upon all of these strategic factors and the faith the absolute faith I have in our teams ability to face and overcome challenges I remain very confident that Nucor's best years are still ahead of us.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
We will now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Luke Folta with Jefferies.
Hi! Good afternoon.
Good afternoon Luke.
How are you? Good.
First question is on in the release you talked about what you're expecting in terms of demand in First Quarter and you made some comments around an expectation for significantly lower scrap prices.
Just trying to get a sense if you could give us some more color around what your price expectations are heading into 1Q? What takes into the assumption that earnings should be slightly higher year on year and also if you could give us some sense of what your LIFO expectation would be as well that would be helpful.
Let me start with the first part of the question and Ill turn over to Jim for the rightful comments.
Let me start by saying that our first quarter outlook is based upon what we see today in the current scrap pricing.
As I mentioned in the script there are numerous reasons why we believe that that pricing will decline dramatically in the early part of the year we believe probably in the first quarter.
One of the biggest drivers for that is when you look at our steel pricing our steel pricing has already gone down hence the decrease in those products maybe $50 to $100 per tonne.
As a result scarp pricing has to follow that steel pricing down.
We see the steel pricing under pressure because of the imports that are coming in as produced with iron ore giving them a cost advantage to the overall scrap market that has said we believe will adjust.
There is certainly lot of reasons we believe that we are going to see the scarp pricing drop significantly over the next couple of months.
It got the strength of the U.S.
dollar global scrap markets are low scrap imports are bound to start coming in and as I mentioned decreased demand for steel scrap as a result of decreased production of steel because of the pressure that were seeing both because of the import being produced by the iron ore and because of the iron the oil pricing as we mentioned in the script.
So given these reasons we believe very strongly that we will see a dramatic drop in scrap pricing in the first quarter.
The other thing that I wanted to mention is that we are seeing some impact on lag of the scrap pricing moves due to the inventories in our mill.
So we are currently in our mills higher priced scrap because there's usually a four to six week lead time and a lag time in our use of the inventories.
So given all of those reasons we believe that a: scrap pricing is going to come down dramatically and I want to stress that its following steel pricing now.
The steel pricing has already come down.
Scrap pricing must follow.
And I also want to mention that again that we based our First Quarter outlook based upon current scrap pricing.
Jim you want to touch upon the LIFO adjustments? Yes little more assuming $25 million LIFO credit for the year and obviously if metal prices fall as dramatically as we think they could we will end up having a larger credit just bigger advance but were going to start the year off looking -- I think it comes to $6.5 million in expense in first quarter for a 25 million annualized base.
Okay so just to be clear whenever the scarp move that we could see in February I think last update some of the people we were talking to were looking for down 30 to 50 maybe thats changed over the past week or so.
But your expectation now would be your guidance were based on todays scrap price before the down movement in February or that would be included in that? Luke as John has explained we tend to have scrap in the ground and so when we made the forecast we are assuming that the benefit of foreign scrap price because we dont know if its going to fully come through in February or late in the March that will just start to see some of the benefit in March and so if we see it sooner our results could be better.
But our forecast probably is a big concern in terms of we seeking any benefit from scrap prices if that helps.
We will like here to specific numbers and I frankly dont have that its a bottoms up forecast for every business unit individually making a forecast.
Got it.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then just the second one in terms of your energy demand your shipments.
John I think you said it was 10% or so of your total steel shipments.
Can you give us some sense of how that breaks out by product from flat-roll versus SBQ? And anything in terms of the magnitude of how that's changed just over the past month or so or in the First Quarter would be very helpful thank you.
The vast majority of the horizontal sheet products are about three quarters of our shipments not of sheet products maybe 75% to 80% of a small amount that comes out of SBQ.
As I mentioned we've seen a significant adjustment by our customers to produce it pipe and tube that's into the oil business.
They are adjusting their inventories and we will see an impact upon our order book.
But I do want to stress as I mentioned several times in the script the investments that weve made over the last several years in diversifying our products and our markets will help us get through this period.
Just as one of [indiscernible] of information when you look at just in 2014 is about 700 000 tonnes of products that is either new or value-added product or product we can now supply into markets and we could not supply into previous to these investments.
So although were going to be taking a hit on the oil and gas no doubt about it 10% of our shipments are linked to that.
We believe that through the investments that we've made in diversifying our products will mitigate that impact.
I'll also stress as I mentioned in the script that 50% of oil products go into non-residential construction and we expect to see continued improvement in that market.
Thanks for the color.
And we will take our next question from Matt Murphy with Union Bank Switzerland.
Good afternoon.
The question is just on I guess your order book -- I mean how do you what sense are you getting are customers holding off waiting for the market to find a bottom or are you finding pretty healthy inquiries out there? Other than the pipe and tube that's oil and gas related the rest of the markets are okay.
Now certainly there's a lot of doubt about whats going to happen both on pricing but I think more particularly on what the customers view might happen with scrap pricing which is why I am once again emphasizing that its an unusual event where we are going to see scrap pricing following steel pricing down typically its reversed.
This time because of the pressure from imports and from our competition that is ore based we are seeing the inverse effect take place.
Steel pricing has gone down before scrap pricing.
We believe that quite as I mentioned scrap pricing will follow it down and it will happen pretty quickly and pretty dramatically but again it is following the steel pricing down.
Not the other way around.
And I think our customers understand that and so as they are not expecting large price decreases as scrap continues to rebound because we've already seen the impact of that on our pricing.
One other important that I mention in terms of just booking as a general statement.
We talked about imports being high and although weve been successful in some of our trade cases on rebar and hot-rolled coil and wire rod there's still a lot of imported steel that's in inventory that is impacting our order book.
Well see that from the next couple of months.
Sure.
That's helpful.
And then when you talk about repeatedly your strategy of going into higher end product how are you finding competition from imports in the higher end categories? And if that remains a better business for Nucor than for imports is it fair to say maybe we would see imports continuing to attack in some of the lower end applications? So maybe you don't get the volume growth but you still get the margin growth from the higher end products? Maybe if you could just talk through how that might look thanks.
Well clearly the higher value products have a greater resistivity to imports as well as having higher margins so you kind of get a double benefit of that.
In terms of your comment about we expect to see volumes not growing I would not agree with that statement.
We expect to see our volumes grow the higher value added products just as we continue to develop them being more and more market share.
And its always been Nucors policy we dont give up on the lower commodity products.
Okay.
We're in this game across the full spectrum.
We are just as interested in maintaining our market share in rebar as we are developing the advanced high strength steels.
We'll grow in all of the products that are out there.
As well not concede market share easily to be our competitors or from [indiscernible] importing pressure will continue [indiscernible] in other words we will gain higher ground without giving up what we already have.
Does that answer your question? Perfect thanks.
And we will take our next question from Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</span></strong> Good afternoon every one.
Question for you I am guessing Jim youre probably following this literally in the playing field act that Senator Blair introduced last December and I was just wondering if you kind of walk us through what that might actually mean for the steel industry? How could that benefit Nucor and this might be asking too much but you're handicapping whether such legislation might be able to make it to Republican Congress? I am going to ask our political guru to answer that question to the level that we can answer it.
If that may the equation its going to be good for us but something thats very difficult to get through the system.
So I really don't want to do answer it on this call but I'd be happy to talk to you afterwards.
Research Division</span></strong> Okay so you will let me call after the -- Give us a call later in the day or tomorrow and we will give you some more color on that.
Research Division</span></strong> Great.
I will definitely follow up.
Maybe I'll just ask about the trade case on the coated [indiscernible] products.
Where does that stand right now know it's hung up a little bit because of the concerns about the injury determination.
With pricing rolling over as much as it has over the past quarter are we getting a little bit closer to the point where we may actually see something pretty soon? I am not going to answer that specifically.
I will say that like a general statement that we will be proactive and we will be aggressive.
The level of import is infringing at which absolutely ridiculous levels and we believe that there's a potential for action coming up.
We're monitoring the situation very closely and that we will be aggressive.
We look back at the last couple of cases and the success.
And weve had all those cases.
We had the rebar case against Mexico.
We were very successful in that case and we saw rebar imports from Mexico reduced by about 70%.
We've seen wire rod the case against China result in virtually eliminating the Chinese wire rod from the US market.
And finally I would mention the suspension agreement the elimination of suspension agreement for hot rolled coil against Russia.
And were seeing significant and we anticipate continuing to see significant reductions in Russian hot rolled coil coming into the country.
So based upon those recent successes weve got pretty good about our chances going forward.
I am going to leave with that.
Well monitor it closely.
We will be aggressive and we will be proactive in pursuing cases when it is appropriate.
And we will take our next question from Sal Tharani from Goldman Sachs.
Good afternoon.
A couple of questions.
First on the end markets more than 50% is non brand 10% energy; anything big you want to mention after these two? I would mention as we mentioned several times in past calls automotive.
Were looking at about 10% of our automotive qualified steels will go in today 10% of our steels that are qualified steels will go in today 10% of our steels that are qualified going to automotive.
We're shipping into that sector.
If we look at our total tonnage about 5% of that will be going for automotive today.
Usually we dont normally count structural steel beams and not much of that will be going to the automotives.
We dont factor that in.
But if you look at what is possibly going to automotive were shipping about 10% of that flat-rolled SBQ into automotive today.
SBQ has just picked up a little bit in SBQ over the last year.
It might have bumped up about 11%.
But again flat steel represents the vast majority of product that we're putting into automotive factory.
And you postponed drilling this year.
How long can you do that? Is that part of contract? Or do you pay if gas prices to remain low? Do you have ability to continue postponing it? We could continue to postpone it as long as we and our partner Encana agree to do that.
And as we've mentioned several times we have a great relationship with and we constantly communicate with them.
We made a decision this year to suspend drilling other than the few wells that are necessary to maintain the results.
And we will take a look at the situation again during the course of the year.
If we should see a sudden increase sporadical increase in pricing we'll begin drilling and if we dont we will suspend it again.
The key thing to remember about this agreement is that the gas is in the ground.
Its not evaporating.
Its not going anywhere.
Its there waiting for the right the optimum opportunities for us to take it out of the ground.
Are you hedged for gas this year? We are partially hedged for gas.
It's a percentage of production at the Louisiana plant which we're using obviously at our Steel Mills that are operating.
Great.
I'll get back in the line with some more questions.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Brian Yu with Citi.
Great thanks.
I want to go back to the comment you made earlier about the scrap prices.
And as I think about it at first it is going to start with the scrap yards.
And I was wondering if you can share with us what's happening with the buy prices that you're getting at the yards that you operate? How much are those down say as you go into February? I'm not going to give specific numbers but I will say that they are down significantly and we expect that and were reacting properly to it.
But I'm not going to give obviously any specific numbers.
Our competitors would love to hear that number.
Okay.
On the energy side obviously that's having an impact.
Can you give us a sense of how much have orders dropped so far in the year versus say what you were seeing back in 4Q? And is there any backlogs when you ship to the OCTG manufacturers that you're working off of now? Yeah.
There is a small backlog that we are working all the way through.
We are working with our customers.
We understand the situation that they face and the inventory problems that they're looking at.
So we've been working with them on that.
As I said before we've seen significant drop in the orders for our flat-rolled product going into oil and gas.
Our other markets remained very strong.
Heavy truck is still looking very good.
Automotive is still looking very good.
So there are areas where we feel confident that our order book remains strong.
We have seen a significant drop in our orders for specifically pipe and tube that goes into the energy markets.
Okay can I get one more in? You got one more that's it? All right thanks.
Gallatin I think roughly half of the shipments go into the energy markets.
Are there other end markets at that facility? I dont know.
I apologize but I've got to correct you right off of the bat.
It's true that about half of their product is the pipe and tube.
But the vast majority of that goes into structural tubing and were about 10% of Gallatin products shipments going to energy related pipe and tube which is similar to our number here in Nucor.
We will go next to Timna Tanners of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</span></strong> I wanted to just ask you about there's some talk about blast furnaces iron capacity in response to the level of import and the destocking on energy tubular as you mentioned.
Just two questions I guess one is how long do you think this destocking might last? And secondly would Nucor be among those that's pre-emptively idling some capacity in response to a large level of import? Well it's hard to predict how long this is going to last.
That's somewhat of a function of how long and how deep the oil pricing situation goes on.
And you get all kinds of predictions on that.
Its frankly as far as I'm concerned if anyone guesses at this point and entirely up to the producers and how much oil they start pumping out of the ground.
But currently if we were to remain at todays levels of oil pricing and we look at the inventories we will be looking at probably around six to seven or eight months of inventory on the ground at todays usage.
Now having said that there is always a stop to a system when something has a radical change and we see that happening today.
Big change people throughout the entire supply chain are caught with inventory on hands its a radical its a major change major reduction in the orders.
Even then there will be a period of time when all of this works out and starts flushing through.
And we'll begin to see the orders for pipe and tube going to energy returning to a new normal level albeit less than where it was.
But there will be some level greater than wordings today but less than where it was a year ago.
The other thing that I would mention about that is that you asked about shutting off reducing our capacity.
As you know Timna our furnaces are extremely flexible.
We make that decision on a weekly basis.
We want our mills to fill orders and giving our wearable cost structure and the flexible schedules that we have we can react extremely quickly that any changes whether or not we see some improvement in that energy market quicker than we anticipated or whether we see enough tick in one or the other markets we stand ready to be very quick in responding to any changes in the market.
Again when you compare our operations to those of the blast furnace clearly once you shutdown a blast furnace it's down for awhile and we have much greater flexibility.
We dont need to shutdown an EAF.
We can simply skip a couple of heat so skip a couple of shift and come back in a couple of days if we see the order book warranting that.
Research Division</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
If I could I also just wanted to see if you could give a little bit more color on the plate and SBQ markets given that they have some energy exposure and just haven't heard as much about them lately.
We havent seen much of an impact on either the plate or the SBQ markets.
Now certainly there is some small amount but a lot of our plate that goes into what we would call energy might go in to wind towers and other applications that really are impacting this heavily by the oil price going down.
Because I mentioned earlier SBQ does so a little bit into that.
Its been growing.
We've been focused on that as a growth area but it's not that heavy for us.
When we see the bigger impact frankly on our order book in both SBQ and particularly in plates is due to the imports.
So we see some impact due to the oil pricing but frankly a larger impact due to imports.
Research Division</span></strong> Okay thank you very much.
Timna one more thing that I might mention that you mentioned specifically about the plate market.
When you think about some of the infrastructure although it's coming way too slowly there are some infrastructure repairs being made particularly in the bridge.
And there's a couple bridges going on.
Some bridge fabrication bridge repair and our plate business is doing well in that area.
So were seeing some pickup in our plate order book as a result of general infrastructure and particularly bridge fabrication.
We will take our next question from Michael Gambardella with JPMorgan.
I have a question just about this whole change in the raw material market share particularly with the stock move and the lack of the scrap move I guess relative to iron ore in past six months.
But when you look forward I would think in the next few months it will be a great opportunity to gain share particularly on the sheet market not to close down your production because if youre not ready you're going to become the low cost producer in market for sheet.
And when you look at the sheet market its about two thirds iron ore integrated based on about a third even the rest of mini-mills on the sheet side and you've been suffering from a relative cost disadvantage because scrap didnt come down relative to iron ore in the last six months and now it is.
So going forward you've kind of seen the worst scenario.
You relative to integrated [Licax] [ph] and AK.
But isn't there a great opportunity to pick up some share as your costs drop and their costs basically don't? Ill say that we have seen the worst of the times relative to opposition because we do believe scrap is coming down.
I will point out that we fared a little bit better on our cost side relative to most of EAF-based competitors because of our DRI situation.
We call that with the iron ore pricing going down our DRI cost of production has been going down also.
And so we've seen benefit at our Trinidad facility and we will see a benefit as our Louisiana facility comes back into line.
So yes we believe we've seen worse of the times.
Okay.
Yes we see scrap pricing going down and we will benefit from that.
Yes we played better than our other competitors in the EAF arena because of our DRI capabilities.
I'm not going to [indiscernible] what all that means going forward.
We will stay competitive.
We will take care of our customer needs.
We will continue to supply our customers with high quality fairly priced product on time with great service.
And we will see how it plays out in the market place.
Okay.
And we will go next to Andrew Lane with Morningstar Given the significant declines in both iron ore and natural gas prices since this time last year do you expect to achieve profitable DRI production in Louisiana shortly after the facility is restarted? Or will it likely take some time to ramp up production before your output is profitable? Well it will take some time to ramp up our production and it will also take some time to work through the iron and higher cost iron ore inventory that we have on the ground iron ore that was purchased last year that we have now worked all way through because the facility has been out of commission.
So it will take time to work through that inventory and it will take some time to get up to full production.
But we expect to see the Louisiana facility running well and profitable by the end of the ear.
Okay great.
And then to change gears you mentioned that the energy end market represents about 10% of your steel mill shipments.
Could you provide a split as to how much of that total is directly associated with the shipments for oil and gas drilling projects and how much is associated with shipments for other energy related applications such as power generation? We dont break it down that definitively.
I would say to you that probably if you look at the energy pipe and tube as opposed to other oil and gas applications you're looking at probably 90% going directly into the energy pipe and tube that would be associated with drilling maybe 10% and that would be rough numbers here maybe 80:20 90:10 somewhere in that area.
Okay that's helpful thanks.
If I can just ask one last question.
Would you be able to provide an update as to how the integration process is going through the Gallatin Steel operations? And are the incremental 2015 benefits you initially expected still intact? I would love to do that actually.
The integration is going extremely well.
We expected that it would go well.
The team there is a great team and management style.
Their culture is very similar to our Nucor culture.
So we anticipated a smooth integration.
But I have to tell you what its gone even better than we anticipated.
Those guys is doing a great job.
The financial team there Id give a call out to them they very-very quickly integrated into our financial programs.
I am surrounded by some financial people in the room here and they are all nodding their head saying what a great job the Gallatin financial team did in getting up to speed very quickly converting the systems integrating the systems.
I would also make that statement relative to the commercial team.
They integrated extremely well with our commercial team.
We're enjoying the synergies that weve anticipated from that and its going great.
And this does conclude the question and answer portion of todays conference call.
I would like to turn the call back over to John Ferriola for comments and closing remarks.
Well thank you.
Let me just conclude by saying thank you to our shareholders.
We certainly appreciate your confidence and your support.
Thank you to our customers.
We appreciate your business.
I want to say thank you to all of my Nucor teammates for creating value for our customers generating attractive returns for our shareholders and building a sustainable future generating a attractive returns for our shareholders and building a substantial future for all of us.
And most importantly thank you all for doing it safely.
And for everyone on the call today thank you for your interest in Nucor.
Have a great day.
And this does conclude todays conference.
We thank you for you participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation First Quarter of 2015 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will come at that time.
Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on managements current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucors latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SECs and Nucors website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speaks only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for todays call are the other members of Nucors senior management team: Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias; and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan Joe Stratman Dave Sumoski and Chad Utermark.
The entire executive management team would like to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for working hard working smart working together and most importantly working safety to take care of our customers in the first quarter of 2015.
The current steel industry challenges of significance whether it's a short-term challenge such as energy and industry turbulence or a structural challenge such as excess global steel capacity and Nucor team always runs totally with the challenge not away from it.
We address the challenges we face head on.
Times of adversity allows demonstrating to strength of Nucors business model with our unreliable competitive advantage and the adaptability Nucor grow stronger during periods of industry distress.
Achieving that goal is the unrelenting focus of more than 23 000 Nucor team mates each day as they continue their excellent work implementing our company strategy for long-term profitable growth.
I will now ask our CFO Jim Frias to review Nucors first quarter performance and financial position.
Following Jim's comments I will update you on current market conditions and execution of our strategy for the long-term profitable growth.
Jim? Thanks John.
First quarter of 2015 earnings of $0.21 per diluted share compared favorably against fourth quarter of 2014 earnings of $0.65 per diluted share and year ago first quarter earnings of $0.35 per diluted share.
The profitability of our steel segment for the first quarter of 2015 declined approximately 46% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
An unprecedented level of imports flooding the domestic market in late '14 and early 2015 has pressured steel selling prices margins and volumes for all of our steel mill products.
The hard rolled sheet market is the weakest as a result of the combined impact of surging imports and severe inventory correction underway in the energy pipe and tube sector.
Capacity utilization in our steelmaking operations fell to 65% of the first quarter of 2015 from the fourth quarter's rate of 76%.
Not surprisingly our sheet mills experienced the largest decline quarter-over-quarter in production and shipments.
New core sheet mill shipments decreased 14% over this period which compared to an 8% decline in total steel mill shipments.
Steel mill profitability was also impacted by continued erosion in selling prices that outpaced decreases in raw material costs.
A decline in steel selling prices exceeded the reduction in our composite scrap and scrap usage cost which were $39 per ton quarter-over-quarter.
Average sales prices dropped $70 per ton per plate $67 per ton per beams and $49 per ton per sheet.
The first quarter of 2015 performance of the raw material segment includes an operating loss of approximately $44 million or $0.09 per diluted share at our new DRI facility in Louisiana.
That is larger than the approximately $35 million operating loss.
The Newport steel Louisiana experienced in the fourth quarter.
Our Louisiana team has completed repairs and the adjustments of the process gas heater that failed the November of last year.
Operations resumed during the last week of the first quarter.
On the positive side our downstream product segment continues to capitalize in the slow but steady growth underway in non-residential construction markets.
As expected this segment's first quarter profitability decreased from the fourth quarter level due to typical seasonal factors.
However compared with the year ago quarter segment pretax profitability increased to more than $32 million from less than $2 million.
Particularly strong profit improvement was achieved in our joist and decking and metal building systems businesses.
A quick comment about our tax rates which can be confusing due to the impact of profits from non-controlling interests.
After adjusting our profits belonging to our business partners the effective tax rate was 33.9% for the first quarter.
Nucor's financial position remains strong.
Our gross debt-to-capital ratio was 36% at the close of the first quarter.
Cash and short term investments totaled $1.3 million including our net debt-to-capital ratio at approximately 28%.
Our net significant debt maturity is not until December 2017.
Nucor's strong liquidity position also includes our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility which remains undrawn it still does not mature until August of 2018.
Nucor is the only North America's steel produce to hold the investment grade credit rating.
Nucor continues to generate very robust operating cash flow throughout the cyclical up and downs that characterize the steel business.
With our highly variable cost structure we benefit from significant reductions in working capital during downturns.
That was the case again in the first quarter of 2015 with cash provided by operations of $564 million a dramatic increase from the year ago first quarter.
Our strong cash flow will obviously increase our liquidity and retire the year end to 2014 commercial paper balance of about $150 million that have been issued to fund the portion of Gallatin Steel acquisition in the fourth quarter of last year.
First quarter of 2015 capital expenditures totaled $70 million.
We continue to estimate full year 2015 capital spending will be approximately $500 million.
Most of our recent largest scale growth projects have been completed or near in completion.
Depreciation and amortization for 2015 is expected to total about $700 million.
John made an excellent point about the strength of Nucor's business model.
It is one that enjoys competitive advantages and a degree of flexibility that cannot be matched by any of our competitors in the North American steel industry.
Nucor's strong balance sheet consistently healthy cash flow generation and conservative financial practices are critical components of our business model.
Times of adversity such as what our industry is currently undergoing once again highlight the strength and value of Nucor significant competitive advantages and superior adaptability.
Our focus is not on survival but growing stronger.
Earnings in the first quarter of 2015 are expected to be somewhat improved from the first quarter.
The second quarter should be followed by further improvement in the second half of 2015 given the ongoing strength of non-residential construction and its impact on our steel mills and downstream businesses.
Non-residential construction activity accounts for more than half of end used demand for our products.
Margin in the steel mill segment are expected to improve although we will not realize the full benefits of lower raw material cost until there is a greater stability in steel pricing.
As service center destocking runs its course during this transaction period steel prices are expected to stabilize and rebound.
Second quarter performance at a raw material segment will reflect continued high losses at the Louisiana DRI facility and the impact of a nearly completed one month maintenance outage at our DRI facility in Trinidad.
The Louisiana plant has resumed production and it will be consuming higher cost iron ore that was on hand when the plant suspended operations following a failure in its process gas heater in early November.
Our steel product segment is expected to achieve continued improvement in profitability during the second quarter.
All three major fabricated construction products joist and decking fabricator rebar and metal buildings are experiencing significant year-over-year gains in bookings backlogs and backlog margins.
Over the past several months our transits [ph] has increased at the overall U.S.
non-residential construction market is set to deliver square footage growth in the range of at least 7% to 8% in 2015.
Such a growth rate would still place at the market almost 40% below the peak level of 2007.
Whatever short-term economic and steel industry conditions we face for the remainder of 2015 new horizontal rival position of strength will allow our team to continue to execute on our improvement strategies for delivering profitable long-term growth in shareholder returns.
We appreciate your interest our company.
John? Thanks Jim.
Nucors culture has always been defined by our willingness to tackle and overcome challenges.
We dont ignore problems that's not an effective strategy for success or even survival.
We have confronted by challenges.
We find ways to grow stronger while fixing or mitigating the problem.
During the first quarter unprecedented volumes of steel and joist [ph] continued to be a major challenge for our industry Blatant foreign government support of their steel industries has resulted in glut of global steel production.
A brazen disregard of international trade rules has led to the dumping of steel products in our market.
As a result one in three tons of steel sold in the U.S.
today is produced abroad by less efficient less safe and less environmentally friendly countries.
This is a real crisis for our industry.
We are attacking this issue head on to fighting back.
Nucor is working on a bipartisan basis with members of Congress and with the administration to ensure that we have strong and effective tools to combat on fair trade.
If Congress passes trade promotion authority legislation by authorizing the President to enter into free trade agreements.
We believe the bill must be balanced with the strongest possible trade enforcement mechanisms so that steel and other industries have the tools we need to fight this blatant disregard in international trade rules.
There is substantial support from both Democrat and Republicans for doing this.
Additionally the administration must pay a much tougher one with countries that break the law.
We have a set of rules governing trades.
We follow those rules on foreign countries and producers break those rules there must be meaningful consequences.
Applying tariffs and other remedies is simply holding governments accountable for the agreements that they signed.
To that end Nucor continues to assess market conditions and will be proactive and aversive in pursuing trade cases when and where it is appropriate.
I will now update you on some of our team's organic growth initiatives underway to improve our long-term cost position and expand our product portfolios to include more value added higher margins offerings that are less impacted by the tsunami of imports.
After restarting operations at the end of the first quarter Nucor Steel Louisiana is once again producing DRI world class quality levels that our team established prior to the equipment failing [ph].
It is important to note that the process gas heater is not part of DRI technology utilized by Louisiana.
But is ancillary industrial equipment required by operating plants.
During Louisiana just completed shutdown modifications to the process gas heatings original design were implemented to prevent the re-occurrence of a similar failure.
One significant modification was the installation of two large damps [ph] to enable the process gas heater to control its cooling rate which will expand the life of the tubes that have failed in the past.
Another significant modification was the addition of a nitrogen [indiscernible] to the outlet of the heater to significantly reduce any collateral damage in the event of any future failure.
Louisiana has been a challenging start nevertheless it is a major step forward in the implementation of our long-term strategy to optimize our iron unit process.
In fact we believe it has already provided short-term benefits.
Presence of our Louisiana DRI facility having produced 1.3 million tons last year and preparing to resume production at the end of the last quarter was a meaningful factor supporting February's dramatic price [ph] adjustment of more than $100 per ton in scrap price.
That very much supports our belief in the long-term benefit of our DRI investment.
In the first quarter of 2015 our Hertford county North Carolina plate mills recently added heat treating and normalizing assets continue to run at full capacity of approximately 245 000 tons annually.
The Hertford county team is capturing a growing share of value added and higher margin plate products.
Relative to an investment of approximately $150 million our value added capabilities both incremental pretax profit that should average $200 per ton through this cycle.
During the first quarter the first field installation of Nucor model's new Berkeley piling sections was successfully completed.
This new product is the result of a $115 million project we started off in the fourth quarter of last year.
Our customers will benefit from this new domestic talent [ph] solution as they pursue by American government funded infrastructure projects.
Nucor model's expanded product portfolio will also create valuable synergies with the other products and services bolstered by the skyline field piling distribution business we acquired in 2012.
Our goal over the next several years is to grow our wider piling sections annual volume to 100 000 tons with combined steel mill and distribution pretax profit potential of approximately $450 per ton.
Momentum continues to build at Nucor's fieldBerkeley$98 million wide like capital project that started off in early 2004 and has shipped approximately 120 000 tons last year.
We expect to ship about 200 000 tons of the new products in 2015 and eventually grow volumes to be at least 300 000 annually with the pretax profit averaging $100 per ton through this cycle.
Berkeley now has the widest hot rolled gage capability of any sheet mill in the Southern United States market and with the finished wood capability of up to 72 inches.
A particular importance the upgrade allows Nucor to produce thinner high strength steel grades that we planned to use to develop lightweight automotive applications.
As I said earlier these are just some of the growth initiatives.
I look forward to updating you again next quarter on our progress implementing our strategy for profitable growth.
Here are the some of the reasons why I believe Nucor will continue to deliver profitable long-term growth and industry leading returns on capital.
Our low and highly variable cost structure is Nucor's bedrock competitive advantage.
We understand that to generate attractive returns in a commodity business you have to be a low cost producer and see continual improvement in the cost structure.
Our balance sheet strength and through the cycle cash flow generation underpins our long-term focus and ability to take advantage of profitable growth opportunities particularly during cyclical downturns.
Our upstream vertical integration into raw materials enhances the profitability and flexibility of Nucor's core steel making business.
David J.
Joseph Company's unmatched global raw material supply chain combined with our investments in DRI and scrap dealers is Nucor's best in class capabilities and flexibility in optimizing or is by far our largest single cost item iron units.
Our industry leading product and market diversity continues to grow as we move up the value chain in all of our businesses.
Our downstream vertical integration into value added steel products enhances the profitability and flexibility of Nucor's core steel making business.
Our expanded challenged market such as Harris Steel Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel increased our ability to compete with unfairly traded influence by expanding our opportunities to add value to our customers.
Our commitment to achieving commercial excellence by leveraging Nucor's competitive advantages such as product diversity and operational flexibility to create more value tool and build stronger relationships with each of our customers.
And most importantly Nucor's employees the right people.
They embrace the Nucor cultures pay per performance philosophy and cash the continuous improvement and taking care of our customers plus shareholders and their fellow teammates.
That is why they are company's greatest assets and our greatest competitive advantage.
As has been throughout Nucor's history our companys [indiscernible] area head of us.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
We would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We'll take our first question from Luke Folta with Jefferies.
Good afternoon Good afternoon how are you.
Good.
Hey John can you help me bridge the gap between the commentary around non-res construction improvement and the shipment levels in the first quarter if I look at some of the key categories and structural and even in the joist and decking and the bar businesses.
There is some fairly healthy decline year-over-year.
Could you just give us some color on what that driven by is that mostly an import issue or is it timing? Well it's actually a combination of imports and timing.
You're comparing it to first quarter of 2014 and if we focus on one that's fixed structural.
But most -- I think it was comparing the fourth quarter of --.
When you comparing the first quarter or fourth quarter of last year.
I'm looking now year-on-year 1Q to 1Q.
My bad.
So if we focus on one particular area let's just take structural with these are the basically the same for all of the categories.
But at the beginning of 2014 we're looking at a situation where as you said imports were much lower service center inventories were down we were going into a year where non-residential construction was projected to be up frankly in the first quarter we were talking about price increases that were out there.
So you know combination of all of those resulted in much higher order ranking rates in the first quarter of last year compared to the first quarter of this year.
Okay.
And then if you look at the full year expectation - square footage expected to grow about 7% to 8% this year I mean outside of the first quarter issue as it pertains destocking in imports would you expect that youre these categories should grow about in line with that pace? Again taking imports out of the equation if we see the growth that we are projecting in non-residential construction we should see volume increases as compared to the first quarter particularly as we move out of the seasonal issues that are affecting the first quarter in a lot of our business particularly when you look at some of the downstream businesses such as Harris where frankly the type of new construction work in the first quarter of January and February and many of our Harris facilities are located in Canada just to kind of amplify the situation so.
We do expect it to improve as we come out of the first quarter weather conditions improve and we see the expected increase in non-residential construction.
Okay.
And just secondly on DRI understanding that we've got high cost inventory to work through and that impacts unit cost in the outage as well if we imagine a scenario where we stay in the sort of 260-275 pig iron environment and iron ore 50 bucks.
Can you give us some sense how we should think about profitability of DRI at full production? Is it profitable meaningfully at that level? It would be cash positive at those levels when you're talking about pig iron at 250 we do transfer our DRI on a pricing mechanism that's based upon pig iron and I would say that at the level of about 250 for pig iron we are cash positive.
I would also point out that I'd be quick to point out that I personally believe 250 for pig iron is an unsustainable level it's a result of some significant and unusual currency issues and the geopolitical issues so I personally would not expect that to stay at that low level long-term.
Having said all of that we have said from the beginning when we talk about the DRI project that over the close of the cycles is going to be times when we get singles times when we bonds and sometimes when we get grand slams.
We talked just last quarter about the very positive contribution from our Trinidad operation and when pig iron was at a more normalized rate and we expected to be back up to those levels again and we expect to see a very good returns on our DRI investment when that occurs.
Alright thank you gentlemen.
We will take our next question from Timna Tanners with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Yeah hey good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Timna how are you? I am okay thanks.
I wanted to make sure I can understand that what happened between your initial qualitative guidance to the quantitative guidance to the beat.
Can you just talk us through what changed in your assumptions or what changed in the market environment to change the outcome? Certainly we can do that.
As always on these things as many factors but the key one the driver for all this was frankly the steel performance the performance of our steel mill improved.
In forecasting we underestimated the impact that we would have on our margins on scrap pricing going down we got to realize the lowest scrap price quicker and frankly in some of our products we had higher volumes.
So the combination of an improved margin relative to our forecast and some volume increases above our forecast we did beat the forecast as you mentioned.
Okay so two questions just to finish up then.
One why did prices fell less in sheet then they did in the plate and beams that's a very high profile to see how much sheet prices have fallen recently but plate and beams I thought it'd be fall on just more recently with the $100 scrap moving just in February so why did you see plate and beams fall more than you did in sheet in the quarter? For one element that you have to take into account when you to answer that question is that some portion of our sheet businesses on quarter-over-quarter contract pricing that's based on some mechanism.
So when you - there is a lag time before you see that decrease in those contract pricing.
I would also point out that although the import situation is very serious on sheet product and particularly plate has been unbelievable tsunami of imported plate over the last two quarters.
And that of course had a dramatic impact on pricing of the plates.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And then the only thing that I want to ask is just maybe it's philosophical but now I'm just been surprised that how I know prices always over correct in a down market.
But why would a company like and many like yourselves you have some flexibility to ramp down continue to produce at these very low prices and to match imports.
Isn't there a price at which you say no I don't want to make that lower margin and I'm going to hold out and if the prices are expected to recover.
Why is everybody including yourselves I guess continue to produce and offer these low price tons at import levels.
Is that import equivalent level what do you think? Well so it's balanced.
Right you want to look at you're the buying - your facility which obviously impacts your fixed cost of that facility.
So that's one issue.
Secondly we need to take care of our customers we don't want to give up market share sometimes when you lose a customer or lose a business opportunity it's hard to regain it.
And our customers count on us being there even when it's difficult pricing environment.
So there are just a couple of reasons that we continue to operate.
I'll also point out that Timna and let me know if I didn't answer that question if I did tell me what you wanted to hear on that.
But given the radical change in the scrap cost which we frankly believe becoming because of the large gap between scrap pricing and iron units.
We felt that we can work our way through those tough times keep our customer satisfied maintain our market share not lose good opportunities knowing that we would ultimately be able to as a result of our scrap cost going down to be able to correct our pricing and get it closer to the market to the imported price and maintain a margin.
That makes sense.
Thanks for the answer.
And we'll take our next question from Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Hey Evan how are you.
Good.
My first question is on trade.
So it seems like you're taking kind of a two pronged or maybe the industry is taking a two pronged approach to trade issues.
One is just putting together a trade case and keeping at about on flat rolled.
But the other is on the legislative front.
Senator Brown has got these level playing field rules that is I assume trying to attach the TPA at this point.
So it seems like maybe there is a chance you get some of these rules that would actually change the way that harm is measured in the US through in the next few months here.
How do those two things impact one and other.
So my question is would you wait to file a trade case on flat rolled if you think it could maybe change the rules at the ITC on the harm decision or are those completely independent? When we fight we use both of this okay.
So those are two pronged approach and we're going to use both of those prongs to achieve a level playing field.
So that our team mates can be successful which we know they will be on a level playing field.
I've mentioned on the last couple of calls that I've told that we're gaining traction in Washington on both of those fronts I still do we are getting a much better reception.
People are beginning to understand I believe people are beginning to understand the impact of these illegally traded products on our industry and on our team mates steel workers in general.
It's about focusing and pursuing trade cases when that's appropriate and moving forward on the legislative front at the same time.
We see great opportunity frankly on the legislative front particularly with the TPA discussions that are going on today and we are pushing very very hard to getting good reception on both sides of the aisle to the concept that if TPA is going to be approved it must be approved with strong trade language to protect our industries and give us the ability to better and more effectively and more proactively by illegally traded products.
Great.
And then just maybe on the trade case.
What's kind of your outlook there on timing it seems like it's been a pretty weak first quarter from most folks at this point and second quarter probably for most folks will also be fairly difficult.
Do you think the case is ready to bring at this point or do you need to demonstrate more harm before the industry is comfortable to filing.
Well let me be clear we will continue to assess the market and we will implement the trade case at the appropriate time.
Okay.
And then maybe just one last one quickly on scrap.
What's your view for the upcoming months it seems like flow is maybe somewhat pick up a little bit which would be negative or maybe demands coming back where you think it all shakes out.
Well frankly our forecast will be pretty flat line for the rest of the year.
Obviously when you talk about scrap is always slight variations in different regions.
We expect some movements in different regions up 5 down 10 so forth as we go throughout the year.
But overall as you look at the year as a whole I think we're going to be pretty flat lined on scrap prices.
Great thanks.
With that I'll turn it over.
We'll take our next question from Matthew Korn with Barclays.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good afternoon.
How are you? I'm alright all right.
Let me ask how much of your lead time is improve today say versus the bottom of this previous quarter.
And how deeply are you sold into May June particularly as you're expecting much better results in the downstream segment looking at.
Well as we mentioned in the script this is a quarter of transition.
So we're not quite sure when we'll see that actual kick in today.
I would say a very modest improvement in lead times very modest frankly not significantly over the first quarter.
And I would expand it would go across say I would apply it all basically all of our products.
Now the one exception I would add to that is in the sheet side on the galvanizing the cold rolled products that those lead times are longer and we still see a pretty strong demand in that area.
Alright and kind of following up on that and on your volume expectations gradual construction in order to meet improvements.
When you're looking into this transitional second quarter.
Is the improvement in earning really going to be mostly a margin expansion story on the realization of scrap cost or could you see some real volume improvement.
I would say it's the combination of the two.
And again to give me it out further than that the most specific from that very difficult to do.
But I would say that it was a combination of both.
Got it.
Appreciate the time gentlemen.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question format Murphy with UBS.
Hi Hello Matt.
Hi.
Can you hear me? I can hear you great.
I'm good thanks yeah.
I was just wondering what your capacity utilization is right now if there was 65% on average for Q1 would it be lower than that now.
It's about the same.
I can't speak to what it is exactly today but so far we are about the same.
Yeah okay.
And is that I mean I guess I'm just wondering what the does the recovery profile of that just like we should basically be watching imports coming off to drive that backup.
Well again there will be a number of factors.
Imports beginning to drop off.
Although we have seen and I want to stress that it's going to be a while before we see that drop off.
Although we've seen a slightly decline in licenses it was so much out there in the pipeline that this is going to take and so much is already reached the service centers and just filled up their inventory.
It's going to be a wild before we work our way through that.
And now I can tell you that for the first time this month and numbers that just came out on service and the inventories we see them coming down just a little bit but imports are some it's just certainly watch and there is other factors too particularly on our shade sheet business when you want to book at oil prices.
Now I can't tell you when it's going to recover but certainly we've seen a tremendous impact on our flat rolled business as a result of oil pricing going from $150 to $50 our volumes are way down.
Same situation there we flooded the pipeline with material there has been a complete stop as they work their way through this inventory at some point maybe third and fourth quarter we'll start working our way through that inventory and we will see order rates that are consistent with new normal drilling levels that are expected with the lower price and other thing you can keep your eye on is currency obviously the strong dollar has an impact on what's happening both on our raw material side and on our steel shipment side and it relates to imports and other factors so I try to give you couple of things that you can keep an eye on but there is a multitude of things that we have to watch and see whats going to happen as we go forward.
Thats good color I mean and then basically just sort of looking at like these are six month thing but I understand but I understand its dependant on all of those factors I guess on scrap prices I have been little bit surprise that no one is expecting it seems much more weakness there given we have seen continued iron ore weakness and so I guess just on scrap whats the confidence of that we've got some pricing stability for a while here? Well I mean all I can tell you is my confidence level we gave you our projection we believe in that projections we think that it's going to be fairly stable right now iron ore pricing its fluctuates a little but spend relatively stable also if there is a dramatic change in iron ore pricing it might have the inflection in scrap pricing but we dont see that at this time.
Okay thanks.
We will take our next question from Michael Gambardella with JPMorgan Yes good afternoon.
Good afternoon Michael.
How are you? Very good.
I have a question if you are assuming that scrap prices are going to stay relatively flat rest of the year and you saw a massive $100 drop couple of months ago.
When do you or are you now picking up share against the integrated mills who are basically fixed cost and when you get $100 drop and scrap they saw a very little of it? Obviously it made us much more competitive and the reason people buy steel its based upon four things I said this many times service quality on-time delivery and price.
And when we are in a situation where there is such a difference between scrap and iron ore pricing we had a real disadvantage on pricing and that impacted our competitive position frankly when I think about how we did during that period with a gap with so large I am really proud of the job our team did on the other three elements of quality service and delivery that kept us in the game when we had $100 differential on cost and now that has been reduced the scrap coming down very confident that we will continue to be aggressive and now we've got we're competitive on all four of those elements and I feel good about the way that will go forward in terms of any market share.
Is it your sense that you are gaining market share now? I am not going to get into specific at any one point in time.
I'll just say again we have the pricing competitive risk not only integrated but we reduced the gap between imported pricing and all pricing and we deliver superior quality service and delivery based on all of that I am confident that our team will gain market share as we move forward throughout the year now there is going to be a lot of practice that come into that as we've talked about in the past.
Thanks a lot John.
Okay.
We will take our next question from Brian Yu with Citi.
Thanks good afternoon John and Jim.
Brian how are you? Good Just wanted to follow up Timna's comments earlier so I guess I'm equally surprised that spot price been computed down and I guess more 50 I know imports they continue to be a big problem but if you just look at where import offers are today versus physical flow that like do you think we pass the point where now its more about domestic competition for market share versus all the domestic producers trying to keep out the imports? Let me be really clear about these imports continue to be our number one - we are focusing on pricing here but you need to remember that there is such a tremendous over capacity we are looking at 300 million tons of excess capacity worldwide.
Now that has been a continuously good pressure on our market and our profitability.
Having said that we have reduced the gap between the domestic pricing and imported pricing but look imports are going continue to be our number one challenge for our industry and our company as a whole.
Okay.
Second question is this is more with your iron ore pellets inventory.
How much inventory do you typically keep on hand at Louisiana I think you mentioned earlier that you're probably going to use through the high cost in second quarter so if that occurs Let me if I may just correct that because I want to make sure we are clear on that.
Today there is a gap of about $60 between the pricing of the iron ore that we have on ground and what market pricing would be.
At the end of the second quarter we expect that we will reduce that gap from about $60 down to about $15.
We will reduce the gap by $45 at the end of the second quarter it will be it will take us through the third quarter sometime around the middle towards the end of the third quarter before we reduce that last $15 gap and get us down to market price for iron ore.
Please continue with your question but I want to correct that and be very specific on that.
That was a lot more information I had hope for so great.
But maybe along those lines how much inventory do you typically keep on hand so your fleecing price had moved down in Q1 and how long before that actually flows through in the more normalized basis and then I know you guys About iron ore you are asking about Yes iron ore in general not in That would be about five to six weeks at Louisiana.
Okay.
And when you take these inventory adjustments the further LIFO credit incorporate assumptions about iron ore piling cost and that is accurately separate? Well it certainly effects our LIFO calculation at the steel mills at our LIFO but the DRI plants are not under LIFO.
Okay Got it.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Nathan Littlewood with Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon guys.
Thanks for the opportunity.
Just had a couple of question the first one the market share on the back of Marks question earlier.
Could you talk a little bit about where you might be seeing market share opportunities and then say the back half of the year be it either by sort of product or end market? Well we've talked about the growth the organic growth that we've had and the products that we're bringing to the market so certainly we would expect to see market share growth in our structural business with our new piling sections we talked about the growth in the sheet side of the business with - project and how we expect that to grow year-over-year.
SBQ would be another area as we continue to bring new products onto the marketplace.
We are continually moving forward with our private in SBQ so I expect market share growth in that area also and so what are we outplay we mentioned we are running our heat treatment in normalizing the mining basically at full capacity and you know I mentioned the projects that we're doing on our SBQ mills so I dont want to leave our raw products which we are introducing raw products to the market that have been accepted very well so we expect to grow our market share there also.
And as I have mentioned on calls in the past one of the few bright spots pass in the marketplace today is automotive and we expect to grow up participation in automotive this year also last year we shipped about maybe 1.1 million tons sheet and SBQ combined products into automotive and this year we are anticipating shipping about 1.45 million tons of combined sheet and has continue into the automotive market and part of that's being supported by I'm going to put a little plug in here for our new Detroit automotive office that we've just established and it's been well received by the automotive companies we have - metallurgical and engineering team mates and sales people in that office to help support push into automotive.
That's useful John.
Are there any updates on the sort of exposed order or body and white industry since last we spoke about this? No Certainly body and white that's one of our strong points that we are moving into and when you say expose.
Exposed accounts were about 15% of the weight of steel per vehicle.
And certainly we want to play in that game and we do.
We have a product that we can put into that and have put into that and exposed applications.
But as clearly not a focus point for us.
When we look at body and white we see 75% of the volume going in there that's our focus point.
We look at what they called closures which represents 25% the remaining 25% and only 15% of that is exposed.
So combined you're looking at 15% out of the total weight of the cost.
It's not something it's not where our major push is going to be.
Got it okay that's helpful.
And my final one was just one the DRI project and raw materials.
So look I certainly understand the raw material strategy here and we do like the fact that there is this additional flexibility built into your sort of iron units procurement here.
But I mean can we consider a scenario where the pricing environment is just not conducive to DRI bank profitable.
And let's assume it something to do with iron ore and pig iron spreads.
Could you talk a little bit about what sort of flexibility you have in your raw material contracts to effectively flex those volumes down.
And so you're going to reduce DRI output just because it isn't profitable or it can't be profitable.
And perhaps and bring it back again later in the future when margins or spreads are a bit more conducive to that plant being profitable.
Well we get our raw material iron ore from four different sources.
And I'm not going to give you the specifics of what kind of contracts we have with each one of those particular suppliers.
But in general we have a level of about 25%to 35% flexibility in the supply of raw material iron unit.
So we can credit back 25% to 35% and I'm talking now across all the contracts I'm not going to get any more specific on that.
But if I may I want to take a moment here because there was a question earlier about the DRI and how should they look at when the cost of iron units and going down we would see improvements.
And I answer the question because it was tied originally back to the amount of weeks on hand of iron ore supply inventory we had.
And I said that we keep about five to six weeks of inventory on the ground.
That is an accurate statement.
But if he was looking to get some sense of when pricing changes relative to iron ore pricing on an index bases changes.
We need to factor in the issue that we buy at a quarterly basis with a lagging quarter.
So for whoever asked that question earlier about seeing changes in the pricing of raw material going into Louisiana please bear in mind when we see the change occur in the index there is a one quarter lag in the pricing that we see at the plant itself okay? Alright thanks very much John.
Appreciate it.
That correction is credit to Joe Stratman who held up a piece of paper and said quarterly pricing.
And we'll take our next question from Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Just had a question on the US rationalization of scrap collection and processing and maybe what you've been seeing there the last couple of months and whether or not you will be participating in that trend.
Clearly as pricing has dropped and everyone it's in the processing again those it's been very challenging margins have been severely compressed.
And it's very challenging for processors to make a decent profit.
And we expect to see some people not making it through this very difficult time.
Certainly we have a strong balance sheet which gives us the opportunity and we have a strong balance sheet and a history of taking advantage of downturns in trouble times to grow our businesses.
So we'll keeping an eye out for assets that come available when they make sense they fit into our strategic plan for a raw materials as the locations are right the pricing is right I'll tell you what we won't be shy we'll be at the table.
John I was just curious as to whether or not you're seeing actual rationalization particularly in the south.
We havent seen much of it yet.
But remember that usually a lot of times it's not during the downturn where you see the greatest pressure on these companies but actually during the upturn but I have to stop replacing inventory when your completing inventory you generate cash when you have to replace inventory you burn fluid cash and sometimes that can be more challenging as it bottoms out maybe the upturn when you really see company struggle to stay on business.
Okay and then I just appreciate that and then I just had a question for clarification because you were generous enough to give out some of the targets here on Hertford and Berkeley on those projects.
Were you saying that the Hertford normalizing line is about $200 a ton over what your normal mix is? And then the same thing with your Nu model on the 450 and then Berkeley on the 100? Thanks.
That is correct.
I appreciate it.
Good luck.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Andrew Lane with Morningstar.
Hi good afternoon.
A couple of questions here First I wanted to ask about the upcoming DRI facility outage in Trinidad in the second quarter is that a standard maintenance project or are you implementing process improvements that you just implemented at the Louisiana facility? And then on a related note is the timing related to the availability of low price pig iron from abroad and what will be anticipated operating loss associated with the outage? Thanks.
Let me work through this note this is in fact a plan preventative maintenance for well shut down that is scheduled in advance and must be doing on a regular angle basis without getting into all the technical indeed shut down and clean out the piping in the earnest.
It's done about once a year it takes about a month and its a normal process.
We are frankly adding a piece of equipment in Trinidad that has nothing to do with Louisiana situation its a polisher to improve the yields as the product ships from Trinidad to United States but thats a side issue there is no failure in Trinidad and anticipate variance it is strictly a planned maintenance outage.
In terms of what we expected to get us with James do you have that number? I am sorry I was thinking I missed it.
The question I was asked can we have the estimate on what the cost of that project is? We dont have the estimated loss during outage but itd probably be less than what you saw from Louisiana for the quarter it's going to be much less than that but there would be some loss from the loss structure of one month.
Okay.
Thanks and then I change gears for a minute.
Given your unique purchase to observe the scrap market to what degree have you seen scrap collection rates dry up in the slower price environment and how low would scrap prices have to fall before you would expect availability become a legitimate concern? Well although pricing is dropping would those have negative impact on collection and flowing to the yards bear in mind that it's also spring.
It's a whole lot of at the time when people are collecting [indiscernible] in winter transportation is not a factor like it is in winter.
So they kind of balance out and although we have seen a small amount of increase in flowing to the yards it's not been significant and it's balanced by the two factors of lower pricing offset by spring time and there was another issue just to kind of build upon thats something that hasnt come up in all the discussion we have had today about scrap and I am a little surprised by it.
But bear in mind that the other thing we look at to keep the supply scrap up in the United States is the load that we buy offshore particularly with the way the currency is today [indiscernible]quite a bit of scrap on overseas.
And where is the majority of that scrap incoming scrap coming from? As a general statement Europe.
Okay great.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from David Lipshift with CLSA.
Hey guys how you are doing.
Good how are you? I am doing well.
So a quick question you know you talked about pig iron being sort of low and expected eventually to bring back up.
How do you think the removal of the export tax and figure out that China is going to impact out there.
Well if it's a renewal of an excellent tax it should go up.
I know they'll be able to explore more.
Yeah so I mean the volume will go up their volume will their exports will go up.
I'm not sure how much of that would actually make its way to the US as all the market I would expect that there will be other markets that will go to in Europe and in Asia and even in India will more logical markets from a logistics perspective and then here in the United States.
So as just when whether that would put continue to put pressure on big iron prices.
Absolutely its economics one of one supply and demand.
And whenever you have a situation when more suppliers coming into the marketplace.
It puts pressure on pricing.
So but I would ask you to consider one factor and that is I can't test to the quality of the big iron coming out of China that might be a question.
Okay.
And you don't think lower big iron prices potentially put more pressure on scrap as well that people will start to take more big iron and then scrap could go lower.
Same reason well supply buying units into the market and it bring pressure on all aspects of volume units scrap big iron DRI.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
And we'll take our final question from Tony [ph] with Cowen and Company.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Tony how are you? Good John.
John is there a rationale for the mills not raising prices yet.
I mean service center indicate they would be receptive.
We see the MSCI inventories are still a bit higher but the moving in the right directionally and it totally we're hearing that end users are living for the most part and the mills.
And I'm just wondering how you feel about that.
Well if there is a service center out there that I want some [indiscernible] from us guarantee at higher prices in the Norway but as a general statement I understand your point.
Its about an inflection whenever you at the bottom.
And if you're asking me where I think we stand on that cycle I would say the couple of times during the - call that we this properly transitional quarter.
So we might see something this quarter but I would ask you to remember that there is still a tremendous amount of inputs that are in the pipeline that are on their where [indiscernible] to the United States.
So that continues to put pressure on pricing.
As I said we'll listen we're not opposed to selling feel at a higher price we like to do that but we also have to take care about customers and maintain our market share in order to those factors that we spoke about earlier in the call.
Okay fair enough.
And my second question is some of the industrial companies are starting to talk about some signs of softening with regard to US demand.
Are you guys seeing any signs of declaration anywhere in your end markets so outside of energy and also if you could address I'd have to say no in fact I would say that our downstream products [indiscernible] is true.
We see a significant improvement in our backlog order entry and backlog prices.
And would that be the same John from a standpoint of geographic as well.
I'm not sure I understand what you mean by that.
Just in terms of different parts of the country.
Obviously you guys have pretty good exposure.
Yeah if there any part of the country than which we're seeing well that.
But right now we will pretty well balance.
I might say in Canada we're seeing again Harris - we're seeing much more improvement because they were down so significant because of weather conditions in the first quarter but other than that pretty well balanced.
Okay thanks very much.
Appreciate the color.
And this concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Ferriola for any additional or closing remarks.
Well let me conclude by saying thank you thank you to our shareholders and appreciate your confidence and your support.
Thank you to our customers.
We appreciate your business and I want to say thank you to my new teammates for creating value for our customers generating attractive returns for our shareholders and building a sustainable future for all of us.
And most importantly thank you all for doing it safely.
Thanks for your interest in Nucor.
Have a great day and a great weekend.
And this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Second Quarter of 2015 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will come at that time.
Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's websites.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speaks only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good afternoon.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan Joe Stratman Dave Sumoski and Chad Utermark.
The entire executive team would like to thank you all all of our key members on our Harris Nucor David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams.
The excellent work taking care of our customers and implementing our company strategy a long-term profitable growth.
Without question the first half of 2015 has been an extremely challenging time for the steel industry.
The strategy at Nucor is about growing stronger and building the foundation for higher highs in earnings.
Our unrivaled competitive advantages and highly flexible business model allow us to manage our business with a long-term focus and profitable and sustainable growth.
Just as important the financial success of our employees is tightly aligned with that of our shareholders.
That is why more than 23 000 men and women of the Nucor team try both their high-energy level and sense of urgency to achieving our goal of profitable growth.
We have a lot of exciting progress to share with you today but first I will ask our CFO Jim Frias to review Nucor's second quarter performance and financial position.
Following Jim's comments I will update you on the execution of our strategy of long-term profitable growth.
Jim? Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</strong> Thanks John.
Second quarter of 2015 earnings of $0.39 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of $0.20 to $0.25 per diluted share.
Second quarter results included a benefit of approximately $0.03 per diluted share related to state tax credits that largely arose from recently completed capital investment projects.
Those state tax credits were not factored into our guidance for the quarter.
Overall the second quarter outperformance resulted from better-than-expected shipments and margins at our steel mills segment.
Effective execution Nucor's channel-to-market strategy is driving strong relative performance at both our bar and beam mills.
Also our sheet and plate businesses are benefiting from recent investments allowing us to expand our offerings on value-added and higher-margin products in more demanding and import resistant applications.
Our downstream product segment continues to capitalize on the slow but steady growth in non-residential construction markets.
Segment profitability for the first six months of 2015 was more than double the first half of 2014.
Backlogs are also higher over year-ago levels for all three of our major fabricated construction products joist and decking rebar fabrication and metal buildings.
As measured by square footage we expect U.S.
non-residential construction activity in 2015 to increase by approximately 5% to 6% from 2014 levels.
The second quarter of 2015 performance of our raw materials segment included an operating loss at our new DRI facility in Louisiana for approximately $20 million.
That was down from the first quarter operating loss of approximately $44 million.
The quarter-over-quarter improvement resulted from the strong output achieved following last quarter's restart of production and a vendor product warranty payment of approximately $10 million.
Nucor Steel Louisiana second quarter results included a negative impact of consuming higher cost iron ore inventory that was acquired in 2014.
As we disclosed in our first quarter conference call we expect to finish working through those higher cost raw materials by the close of the third quarter.
A quick comment about our tax rate since it can be confusing due to the impact of profits from non-controlling interests.
After adjusting our profits belonging to our business partners and the $9.3 million benefit related to state tax credits the effective tax rate was 36.4% for the second quarter.
Nucor continued to generate very robust operating cash flow during the extremely challenging first half of 2015.
With our highly variable and low-cost structure we benefit from significant reductions to working capital during downturns.
That was the case again in the first half of 2015 with cash provided by operations of approximately $1.2 billion a dramatic increase from the year-ago first half's operating cash flow of $443 million.
Nucor's strong through-the-cycle operating cash flow generation allows us to invest in attractive opportunities during periods of industry distress when the long-term returns are most attractive and to continue rewarding our shareholders with immediate returns in the form of base dividends that increased for 42 consecutive years.
Here's the number that help explain our cash generation is such an important competitive strength supporting our team's focus on profitable long-term growth.
Over the past four quarters Nucor has generating cash from operations totaling $2.1 billion.
During that period that cash flow has enabled us to fund the acquisition at Gallatin Steel for about $779 million paid cash dividends to shareholders of $477 million invest in capital expenditures of $381 million and increase our liquidity.
In this time of unprecedented industry turmoil our focus is not on survival but on growing the long-term value of our shareholders' investment.
Nucor's financial position remained strong.
Our gross debt to capital ratio was 36% at the close of the second quarter.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $1.7 billion putting our net debt-to-capital ratio at approximately 26%.
Our next significant debt maturity is not until December 2017.
Nucor's strong liquidity position also includes our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility which remains undrawn.
That facility does not mature until August of 2018.
Nucor is the only North American steel producer to hold an investment grade credit rating.
The first six months of 2015 capital expenditures totaled $163 million.
We estimate full year 2015 capital spending will be approximately $450 million.
Most of our recent larger scale organic growth investments have been completed or are nearing completion.
Depreciation and amortization for 2015 is expected to total about $700 million.
Earnings in the third quarter of 2015 are expected to be improved from second quarter.
The steel segment should benefit from beginning the quarter with lower cost inventories.
Our steel products segment is expected to benefit from continuing gradual improvement in non-residential construction activity.
We are confident Nucor's significant competitive advantages and highly adaptable business model will allow our team to continue to execute our proven strategies for delivering profitable long-term growth and shareholder returns.
We do appreciate your interest in our company.
John? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Jim.
Nucor's long-term success has been achieved by focusing on a simple strategy.
Nucor capitalizes on its unrivaled position of strength to gain profitable market share in our core businesses of steel and steel products throughout the economic cycle.
The anchors to our strategy and its execution are these very powerful competitive strengths of Nucor.
Nucor is a low cost producer of steel and steel products.
Importantly we work to drive continual improvement in our cost structure.
Nucor's financial strength is unparalleled in the North American steel industry.
Nucor generates robust operating cash flow throughout the cyclical ups and downs that are inevitable part of the steel business.
Nucor is the market leader in 9 of the 11 largest markets where we compete.
Market leadership matters as we are able to earn higher margins by providing the broadest mix of products and services to our customers.
Nucor's channel to the market strategy allows our steel mills to increase their penetration of higher margin and higher value-added products in a global steel market burdened with irrational excess capacity resulting from foreign government subsidies.
Nucor's raw material strategies execution has positioned us with greater flexibility to take advantage of the lowest cost feedstock of making steel in a commodity business characterized by high volatility and input costs.
The steel industry has seen some very tough times over the past nearly seven years stretching back to the fall of 2008.
While Nucor certainly does not welcome tough times in our business we do not fear them.
In fact we use them to our advantage to grow stronger.
I am pleased to report that Nucor's position of strength has improved during this protracted steel industry downturn.
Since 2008 Nucor has invested almost $6 billion to expand our portfolios of higher margin products and to improve our relative cost position.
Given the growth in our earnings capacity and the strength of the steel market demand in the U.S.
we believe our profitability will challenge and possibly exceed our 2008 record earnings level were it not for the tsunami of illegally traded imports that are overwhelming domestic steel industry.
Nevertheless a very initial payoff from these investments already can be seen in our current results.
Here are some examples.
Nucor's market leading long products businesses achieved year-over-year growth in profitability for both the second quarter and first half of 2015 despite significant marketplace pressures resulting from imports.
The keys to this performance were market leadership positions in our vertically integrated channel to the market strategy.
Our bar mills benefited from a strong channels to market provided by our downstream businesses.
These downstream channels to the market include our market leading vulcraft verco joists and deck operations our Harris steel rebar fabrication business our market leading cold finish bar business our market leading pre-engineered metal buildings business and a few others.
Our Nucor-Yamato structural steel metal delivered a particularly strong performance in the second quarter.
This performance is evidence of the strong partnerships Nucor-Yamato has built with its fabricated customers.
Also the market leading teams at Nucor-Yamato and Skyline Steel continue to grow profitable market share for us in the steel pilings market.
Nucor-Yamato expects to grow its wider piling sections annual volume to 100 000 tons over the next few years.
These products were introduced to the marketplace earlier this year and received their first export order in the second quarter.
The automotive market continues to be an attractive growth opportunity for Nucor.
Our sheet and engineered bar businesses are on track in 2015 to increase their combined automotive volume by more than 20% to approximately 1.4 million tons and there was more growth ahead as our goal is to reach an annual shipment rate of 2 million tons for the automotive market within the next two years to three years.
As always our focus is on profitable growth in our automotive book of business created by our ability to provide unique value-added products and services.
Nucor's recent and significant investments to have our sheet and engineered bar mill groups are driving our growing market share in these higher margin and more import resistant products.
Our Nucor Steel Berkeley Sheet Mill continues to build momentum in the second quarter with its very successful rollout of new wide light products.
Berkeley expects to ship 200 000 tons of these new products this year allowing it to gain market share with a number of important heavy equipment service center and automotive customers.
Completed in 2014 the wide light modernization capital project has positioned Berkeley with the lightest hot-rolled gauge capability of any sheet mill in the Southern U.S.
market and with a finished product width of up to 72 inches.
Our raw material strategy is a critical foundation supporting Nucor's growing participation in the higher value-added and higher-margin products.
During the second quarter our Louisiana direct reduced iron plant successfully ramped up following its five-month shutdown to make major equipment improvements.
Louisiana produced approximately 540 000 tons of DRI in the second quarter of 2015 with its usual world-class quality levels.
Louisiana has been a challenging startup as was our plant in Trinidad that started up in 2007.
It is worth noting that the challenges in Trinidad was somewhat masked by a dramatically different raw materials pricing environment.
Despite recent challenges our confidence has never been high regarding the long-term value of Nucor owning DRI production capability.
It puts Nucor in an unrivaled position of flexibility in optimizing our iron units cost due to the cycle.
During the second quarter major progress was achieved in the work done by Nucor and other producers to fight back against the tsunami of illegally traded steel imports coming into the United States.
Imports were 32% of all steel sold in this country in the first six months of this year.
That is up from a 27% market share for the year ago period and from slightly above 20% of the market in 2009.
I am very pleased to report that we scored two significant victories recently.
Congress on a bipartisan basis adopted important trade remedy provisions champion by the U.S.
steel industry as part of a package of trade bills.
By passing this legislation Congress has given our industry more effective tools to fight back against unfairly and illegally traded steel imports.
These changes were a long overdue.
The U.S.
trade laws have not been updated for over 20 years.
The Nucor team applauds Congress and the administration by taking a much tougher line with countries that break the law and destroy the economic vitality of our country.
These new trade laws alone will not address the underlying issue the systemic global steel overcapacity resulting from a trade assorting practices of some foreign governments.
It is time for the World Trading Community to take firm actions to stop these countries from dumping their steel and force them to comply with World Trade Organization rules.
As has always been the case Nucor will not hesitate to file a trade case if the evidence warrants such action.
During the second quarter we joined five other steel makers in filing a trade case against India China Italy Korea and Taiwan for dumping and providing significant subsidies to producers of corrosion resistant steel.
We are pleased that last week the U.S.
International Trade Commission made a preliminary affirmative determination allowing the case to proceed.
Nucor will continue to assess market conditions in other products market  in other product markets and pursue cases when appropriate.
Our fight against illegally traded steel imports is essential to meeting our responsibility to be an effective steward of our shareholders' valuable capital.
In closing I am extremely confident that Nucor's best years are still ahead of us.
Every time I visit a Nucor facility and spend time with my team mates I am reminded why I have absolute confidence that Nucor's future is extremely bright.
It's because of the quality and commitment of the men and women who serve together with me on the Nucor team.
They are truly the best they are truly the right people they will get the job done.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
We would now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
We'll go first to Luke Folta with Jefferies.
Sir your line is open.
Hi good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Hey first question I had was on non-res.
We saw a bit of slowing in terms of  well I mean you saw really nice year-over-year growth in joist deck and rebar fab last year in the first quarter.
And that seemed to have dropped off quite a bit in 2Q and similar things out of Steel Dynamics' downstream business yesterday with volumes.
The commentary still seems pretty positive around non-res.
Can you just give us some sense of what's going on in terms of the shipment levels? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me start with the overall markets.
The pundits are still saying that they expect a 7% to 8% increase in non-res this year over last year.
We think that number is a little bit optimistic.
We see it close to be being around 5% to 6% this year in non-residential construction.
As far as our downstream businesses go we're seeing some very positive things.
Our backlogs are stronger than they have ever been.
Frankly the pricing of the products in our backlog are stronger than we've seen in quite some time.
So although we see things over the course of the year slowing a little bit more compared to last year was still pretty optimistic about non-residential construction and our downstream businesses going into it.
Okay.
All right.
Just on the trade side the language that went with the TPA bill here recently how big of a deal do you think that is? And when you I guess think about the impact for imports is it fair to say that Nucor probably has more upside than the industry as a whole in terms of  if there is a change in a way import protection is  if the enforcement approves here do you think that there is more upside just given your southern presence? And I think I would guess that more of your business enters into the spot market than maybe some of your integrated peers to the north.
So any commentary around that would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me respond in general we think that there's tremendous upside I won't compare it to any of our competitors but for us we are very optimistic about potential upside.
We're very positive about the language in the legislation.
Clearly gives us much stronger tools to fight back against unfair trade.
Just to mention maybe a couple of the things that it does for us number one is it changes the definition of injury it gives the International Trade Commission a much broader list of factors when determining whether an industry has been injured not just profitability that's important.
It will no longer be necessary for us to suffer severe financial damage before action can be taken.
Another provision enhances the commerce's department  excuse me the commerce department's discretion in dealing with foreign companies and foreign governments that are un-corporative or very slow to provide the information they need to make a determination.
So although I have to say that this is a very positive first step there is more work to be done.
And we believe that this will create a much more balanced and fair marketplace competition here in the United States but there is still work to be done.
So we will continue to work in Washington with our elected officials and continue to press for even stronger trade laws in the future.
If I could ask one more just on the raw material segment outlook.
The Louisiana plant seems like it's ramping up very nicely.
Heading into 3Q you're not going to have the Trinidad outage and I would think that the headwind from the high cost raw materials would be lesser quarter-on-quarter.
Just trying to get a sense of why we're still looking for a flat outcome in that business quarter-to-quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Trinidad will do better.
As you mentioned we won't have the shut down there.
In the case of Louisiana it will probably be towards the end of the third quarter by the time we work through all of the high priced inventory and the reason that it might be the same even with the improvement in Trinidad is that we won't see the same impact as we did with the $10 million payment on a vendor liability.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Hey good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon Evan.
How are you? Doing well thanks.
Just a couple of follow-ups on the trade front.
So I was just wondering so the rules now changed as far as injury definition goes.
Does that mean that some of the trade cases that people have been working on for the past I guess year-plus now on hot-rolled cold-rolled that we haven't really seen yet do they have to be rewritten to kind of match the new rules? Is that going to cause some sort of a delay? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Now frankly just the opposite.
As we go forward and we press for any potential cases that we might file in the future what will happen is the new law will apply to them.
So it will not cause delays.
If anything just the opposite will happen.
Now the countries that we would potentially file against will be required to submit the data faster.
They will not have the same list of reasons for not getting the data in in a timely manner.
And as we look at the pressing the point of whether there was an injury or not there's a different set of guidelines that will be used.
So certainly this will not cause any delay.
If anything we expect it to speed up the process in cases that we press in the future.
Great thanks.
And then from what I understand there's actually some additional trade protection that we could see coming out of the customs bill that's in conference right now on the enforcement front.
And I understand the language is a little bit different on the Senate side versus the House side on enforcement.
And for some of us on the outside who are trying to follow this maybe you have some insights there that could help us.
Is there any particular language that we should be looking at that you really want to see passed in this custom's bill? Or is there any language that makes you a little bit more nervous or cautious? Any color there would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me start by saying that we're not going to comment on what the outcome will be in Washington.
We will work hard with our elected officials to get an outcome that's favorable to the industry.
Beyond that I don't want to say too much.
It's an ongoing phase.
We don't want to say too much about that at this point.
Okay fair enough.
And then maybe one last question on raw materials as well just trying to get a sense for modeling Louisiana going forward as far as the flow through on the timing for iron ore inventory and I fully understand that you had quite a bit of outages hiccups getting this project started and that obviously stretched out the amount of iron ore you had on the ground probably considerably.
But once things normalize how much iron ore inventory would you normally have on the ground? And how quickly should we model in price change on the iron ore through your earnings? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well remember as you factor in your AFL think about the fact that we buy iron ore on a contract basis and then we pay for the previous quarter but there is always a one-quarter delay between what you're seeing going through the furnace and what you'd purchased.
Always make sure you put that time delay in there as you go forward.
We use about 4 million tons a year so in terms of keeping the inventory on the ground we probably have maybe one month.
One month.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
About 1 million tons we keep on the ground probably about 25% of our annual use.
Great.
That's super helpful.
Thanks guys.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Murphy with UBS.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
John you made a comment your backlogs are stronger than you've seen in some time.
Structural rebar and joist in Q2 were all flat to down so I'm just wondering is the backlog stronger now than it was at the end of Q1? And do you think that's a result of underlying demand uplift? Or is it more imports sort of easing off? Or is it a combo of the two? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ray why don't you take that? Sure.
Good afternoon.
This is Ray Napolitan.
I would say our downstream backlogs are up as a combination of several things but improved underlying demand and overall the slow growth of the non-res market plus the worsen delayed shipments in the first quarter first half of the year due to weather but overall the team is doing a good job in increasing our backlog levels and in both  well for the second half of the year for all three of our major downstream products.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And then I guess the one other question is when you talk about the flexibility DRI offers and I appreciate it it probably plays a role with helping the current pricing environment in the scrap market.
But presumably the flexibility means you run it hard when scrap prices are high and you maybe don't focus on it as much when they're low.
So I'm wondering how you're thinking about your raw material strategy as iron ore spirals and maybe we see some more weakness coming in scrap.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well you are exactly right.
It gives us the ability to switch back and forth in which area we want to press whether it's in scrap or whether it's in DRI depending upon what the cost of the iron unit is.
At the end of the day an iron unit is an iron unit.
What it does is it gives us the ` to change and modify our feedstock mix so that we can optimize our mix base upon current pricing in the different commodities.
It gives us a lot of flexibility.
We have pig iron out there now we have HBI which gives us DRI.
We have scrap that's under our control.
So we have a lot of flexibility but we'll drive the decision on where we're focusing is the price of the iron unit in each one of those areas.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yeah good afternoon guys.
How are you guys? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
How are you? All righty thanks.
So two big areas I wanted to touch on.
One is we've heard so much about flat rolled and improvements expected there but we were kind of surprised the year-over-year declines in bar structurals and plate.
So just wanted to drill down a little bit more if you could provide some information on how much of that might be destocking imports or underlying demand? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I can tell you that it's underlying demand in the United States it's very very strong but that's not the issue.
The issue isn't demand it's on the supply side.
And the fact that the imports are coming in so heavy which I'm sure you know Timna they captured about 32% of the steel market today and although that we're looking at  again I'm talking about the whole market there.
Although we're looking at demand levels that are probably just about the same as last year the import level has gone up from 27% to about 32% to 33%.
So demand is not the issue.
Demand is strong but imports are taking a much bigger bite out of our potential long product business.
When I talk about 32% to 33% that's across all of our products.
When you look at  you mentioned beams specifically so I'll comment on that.
Imports are up 33% in beams year-over-year.
That's a huge increase.
So the short answer to your question demand is strong.
We see good demand.
We believe it will grow moderately throughout the rest of the year.
The issue is not the imports  and I stress the issue is actually not the imports the issue is illegally unfairly traded imports.
Okay got you.
The other question I want to ask is on huge amount of free cash flow in the first half of the year.
And I know that Jim stressed the importance of your cash generation as a competitive strength.
And not to pick on you but you did point out that DRI is obviously less attractive in the current commodity environment that none of us forecasted and I get that.
But can you talk to us a little bit about how you can deploy that capital going forward in ways that we can be confident will grow the business? In light of the fact that you've already done a lot of investments to grow organically do you start to steer maybe toward other uses of cash going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would say that our first goal is always to invest to grow our business.
Now we believe that there's still a lot of opportunity to do that and we would focus on areas that brought value-added higher margin products investments that we've made similar to what we did at Hertford County with the heat treat and the normalizing line.
Investments that we've made in SBQ investments that we made at Berkeley with the wildlife project the investments that we made with the wider piling sections and all of these cases were at focusing on investments on higher margin products that are also more important resistant.
Although we're taking it light we feel good about the action that's being taken in Washington to fade off these illegally traded products.
The focus that we have is to continue to work to better insulate Nucor from that flood of imports and the way to do that is to focus on those value-added products.
A great example that I can give you Timna is all the work that we're doing on our advanced high-strengths steels that go into the automotive market.
I mentioned how we've gone in that over the last couple of years.
As a product because of the quality requirements and because of the just in time delivery requirements that's not easily imported.
So that's an area of focus for us.
I'd also like to speak a little bit more about the continued investment in lowering our total cost of production.
You mentioned that I referenced that our DRI production given the current environment is not as attractive as we thought it might have been at one point.
But I do want to point out that it's still attractive.
If you take a look the issue we're working on right through is the short time but we have this iron ore that's higher price.
But if you took a look at the cost of our  our conversion cost today and you apply the market price to iron units coming out of iron ore today our all-in costs will be under what we would have to be paying for other forms of low residual products like pig iron and prime scrap.
So it's still valuable investment.
The question is whether it's a good investment or whether it's a great investment.
In today's pricing environment it's a good investment.
In tough pricing environment of iron units where we were a year-and-a-half ago it would be a great investment.
And trust me given the cyclical nature of our business it will be a great investment again in the future.
So I wanted to be clear of that so that should we move forward with investing further in some form of DRI or blast furnace projects everyone understands that we had a short term issue we're dealing with it it will pass; long term we still believe very strongly in this strategy.
At the end of the day we look at it this way.
The amount of iron ore in the world is virtually unlimited.
The amount of scrap in the world is much more limited and we can generate more iron ore by reinvesting in extraction techniques.
It's tough to generate more scrap and we see that  frankly we see the amount of scrap being generated in United States has declined.
Okay.
The point of my question wasn't to belabor the DRI issue because those are all good points and I understand that.
I guess the point of my question was to try to ask if the use of this cash to protect against imports has been the primary source or use of cash over the last several years and yet the benefit of those uses has yet to show up.
Do you start to think about more direct return to shareholders to deploy that capital in a more direct way? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We always look at all options.
And we look at the potential investments that we can make in our business and if we believe that they're good investments to make and how we believe that they bring long-term earnings to our shareholders that's the direction we'll take.
On the other hand if we don't see them out there we will consider all other options.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to Michael Gambardella with JPMorgan.
Yes good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
How much sheet capability do you have left for the third quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That might be a different way of asking what's our utilization rate in sheet is that where you're going? Well I just want to say even beyond your stated capacity how much more volume could you put out into the marketplace in sheet in the third quarter versus the second? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let's see how I can answer that without getting too specific here.
How much more we put out? Listen we could certainly put out several more million tons.
And you are talking about just for the quarter  just for the third quarter? Yeah just in the quarter.
Just on a quarterly basis.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We could probably improve it about 20%.
20%.
So I mean with your relative cost advantage with scrap where it has come down to is it just a question of letting the import supplies dry up in the marketplace? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well there's several things.
Certainly that would help.
It's also the issue of allowing the inventories in our warehouses continue to come down.
It's a function that you look at our business in where was our product going? How those markets performed? Obviously we talked about our increased participation in the automotive market and that's a strong market.
We talked about non-residential construction and clearly lot of all of our products including sheet were going to non-residential construction and we see that picking up.
But on the other hand we also have a lot of products that goes into oil-related products such as OCTG and that's obviously struggling right now we don't see that changing for the rest of the year.
So we see some of the markets that we sell into  our sheet products into as continuing to get better and we see others that will continue to struggle.
But overall as we look at the third quarter and fourth quarter what we could put into that another 20% to 25% whether we'll be able to do that will be a function of what happens and how quickly it happens with trade cases or potential trade cases on hot-rolled and on cold-rolled products how quickly that impacts the imports coming in.
That of course will also help drive how quickly the warehouse inventories deplete.
But at the end of the day I will say that I believe that we will be making more and more progress against imports.
I feel really good about this recent legislation and the impact that's going to have short-term and long-term in our business.
And so as I look forward to the rest of the year we do have as a company we're heavily weighted on the hot band side.
Sometimes that's a real advantage sometimes it's not.
Right now we're in markets where that's not advantage but that will turn around also.
So I feel good about where we're going I feel good about the import situation and the impact that'll have on the markets.
When you think about market share in the long products part of your business everyone is subject to the same raw material cost issue scrap basically in an open market.
But in the other half of your business pretty much in the sheet business you have maybe 35% of the market is scrap-based and the other 65% is iron ore-based and that's where you can get a real advantage in terms of market share pick up.
How much market share in the sheet business did you pick up in the second quarter? And then can you talk about what you think you can do in the back half of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You mean pick up because of the cost advantages in the DRI? The DRI and the scrap business just scrap prices coming down relative to iron ore in the last several months.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Versus the integrated scrap.
I think he is thinking versus integrated.
Yeah versus integrated.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I would have to almost answer that on a product-by-product basis.
I mean if we were to look at automotive we think that we will pick up some market share in automotive.
In construction we feel good about our ability to pick up 2% 3% 4% in construction.
And as I mentioned earlier in some of our other markets we think they'll continue to struggle.
Okay.
Because I think you had about a 12% increase quarter-over-quarter in your sheet shipments and one of your other  your primary competitor in terms of mini mill Steel Dynamics had about a 24% increase in sheet shipments quarter-over-quarter.
So clearly both you guys are gaining share in the sheet business versus the integrateds and imports.
I was just wondering how much more share do you think you can pick up in the back half of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well can I answer that by saying how much would I like to pick up? Sure.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm just kidding but listen we continuously work against all of our competitors both scrap-based and integrated.
I don't want to make any comments in particular against any one of our competitors.
Okay.
Thanks a lot John.
Up next we'll go to David Gagliano with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
I just  I wanted to just quickly follow up on the DRI math.
I think this is right but I just want to make sure.
So you mentioned 4 million tons and we don't know the cost of the iron ore inventory on the ground at this point but is it reasonable to assume it's about $30 a ton higher than current prices? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The inventory on the ground.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> I'm sorry.
Say again I missed the question.
I'm trying to figure out what the average cost of the iron ore inventory that we've used in the second quarter.
What that is relative to the current iron ore market? Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> The difference between the higher cost iron ore and the lower cost inventory and this is (47:11) delivered all-in is about $30 ton $35 a ton.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So you were pretty close.
That's what I needed.
Thank you.
We'll now go to Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Inc.</span></strong> I had a question John on sheet pricing.
If we were to assume that sheet price stayed relatively level with where they are now just in terms of the spot market would you expect that your pricing realizations will be improved in the third quarter relative to second or would we need to see more uplift to get that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Actually I would say that we see a small amount of improvement.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then in the  and then the M&amp;A landscape what opportunities are you seeing there and do you think that there is going to be more consolidation in the industry in the next 6 months 12 months 2 years  I mean is there going to be more consolidation here that we see? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We don't comment on any potential merger or acquisition activity that we're involved in.
As a general statement  this has been a long tough period for the industry and in the past based on historical reference points we see consolidation occur when you've gone through these tough times.
So as a general statement it's possible but i'm not going to make any more comments than that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then lastly you made a comment that Yamato had a pretty pretty strong quarter.
Is that a mix piece or is that a demand element just anything that you could provide in terms of color there because I saw your structural pricing held up relatively well relative to the first quarter? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It was a little bit of both to be honest with you.
Demand was up a little bit also mix came into play.
As we mentioned our new filing sections were involved.
So mix had something certainly had a role to play in it.
The demand was up a little bit also.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks John.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll now take our question from Brian Yu with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks and good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon Brian.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey John.
I got an outlook and then a product question for you on scrap.
Scrap price in U.S.
it seems like they've come back down to where they were back in February and when that happened back then we saw a lot of volume dry up.
So question is is there some theoretical or numerical floor to where scrap could go given collection and just cost associated with aggregating it? And then two how are you guys thinking about the scrap markets in third quarter? I think one of your competitors said look we think it's going to go down lower but you guys are pretty big in it too just wanted to get your views there too? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll start with that one.
I think that going into the  we're kind of bearish on scrap prices going forward.
We think that into the third quarter it will  if we say sideways with some downward pressure.
So it will either be down a little bit or sideways but we think probably down a little bit going into the third quarter.
In terms of your first question I don't think there is a numerical floor as such but certainly as pricing goes down again depending on the time of the year also.
If it was winter and pricing is going down a little harder to go out in the field and start tearing apart that old tractor and scrapping it but in the summer time nice weather pricing goes down a little bit but we don't see any major impact on the flows in our yards and we don't expect to see it going forward.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then second one back to kind of the trade  I know the industry has got to work with the tools and avenues available.
I've heard others describe it as trying to herd cats when you're trying to deal with imports coming in.
Say do you lock out coated products from China and other countries.
Is there a way to prevent bad Chinese product from finding a home elsewhere in the world depressing those local markets and then we end up getting imports here from another country? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well there certainly is a way and it's actually happening today and that is other countries react much quickly to the flood of imports than we do and they apply the appropriate tariffs and duties in a much quicker manner.
So it's not a case of whether or not there is going to be product substitution going on and where that end up going.
They have learned the lesson of what's been going on and they're reacting quicker.
The recent legislation is going to give us not quite the same speed but it is going to improve our ability to deal with that issue by dealing more quickly with each product as it comes out.
And ultimately there are mechanisms in the world and if we find this to be a problem that spreads across all products in any one particular country or across group of countries that we might be able to take the action.
It's much harder to pursue that type of action but we've been successful with it in the past.
I'm sure you're familiar with it it's the  we refer it as the 201.
And should the problem become so obvious that countries are employing the concept of product substitution or country substitution we would not hesitate to go down that path again in the future.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Certainly it's a challenging situation the imports and one that we recognize as probably the largest  it's the largest challenge our industry faces but again I'm going to stress I feel good about the action I mentioned this couple of calls ago that I felt better about what was happening in the Washington than I've had in the past 20 years of my steel career and I feel even better today than I did two calls ago.
We'll now take our next question from Andrew Lane with Morningstar.
Hi Good afternoon.
I wanted to ask on a cash basis how close are you to reaching the breakeven point at the Louisiana DRI facility and do you expect that facility to be even cash positive possibly at some point later this year even though pig iron prices continued their steady decline over the second quarter? Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yeah we believe if the iron ore situation were passed right now based on the volumes we're running at in the month of  at the end of the quarter that they would have been cash breakeven then.
So clearly by the end of this year they will be cash breakeven and cash positive.
Okay.
Great.
I appreciate that.
And then along the same lines in addition to the benefits of putting that high cost iron ore inventory behind you how much could the unit cost at that DRI facility improve if you tick this utilization slightly higher or are you comfortable with the current utilization rate which I am guessing is somewhere just about 85% or so.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well we believe that we can get the utilization rate up another 5% maybe 7% or 8% and certainly that's going to have an impact on our costs but there's also other areas that we believe we can improve  to improve our overall cost structure.
One is yield obviously and we're focused on that.
We have just installed and started up a briquetter which will take some of the waste product from the path and turn into briquette that we can feed back into the furnace we believe that will have a significant impact on the yields going forward.
So in addition to getting the utilization up we're confident that we can continue to work down our conversion costs by improving operation that something Nucor has always been very good at and I'm sure that our team will be able to accomplish the same results in that facility.
Great.
And just to be clear what is the current utilization rate at the facility right now at the end of the quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's about 90% 91% something like that.
Okay.
Fantastic.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
We'll now take Scott Nicholls with Bishop Rosen &amp; Company.
Go ahead sir.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
I've got a two-part question.
First part is Sachs of Chicago have a consensus earnings estimate for the year 2016 at about $2.95 a share could you comment on that? Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> This is Jim Frias.
We're in a very cyclical business and making predictions about 2016 is very challenging.
So our comment would be that's within the range of possibilities but we'll have to wait and see.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> You're welcome.
And we'll now go to Matthew Korn with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good afternoon everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
Following up now...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Matt.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey John.
Following up on the trade case questions in your press release you noted that even you don't think the trade cases right now are enough to fight off the pressures of global over-capacity.
Is it really mill closures do you think in the end that's going to take that that what it's going to take to the lift the outlook for all the mills over the cycle? And do you see any tangible signs where this over capacity is beginning to be addressed do you think some of this over-capacity is actually here in the U.S? Last do you think that this new cascade of global protections measures here the EU Mexico India do you think that's going to really prompt the kind of capacity review in places like China that seem to be needed? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I might be the eternal optimist but I do believe that in China they are beginning to understand that too much of a good thing is not such a good thing.
I believe that they are starting to see that they do have too much capacity we're hearing a little bit about some potential capacity cut-backs there it's being driven by economics is also being driven by environmental concern that are very real.
So long-term I do think that you're going to see some capacity reduction in China.
Here in the States it's impossible for me to say what's going to happen in the way of closures going forward.
But in a world where there's over-capacity sooner or later there will be those players who cannot survive and that will happen.
The key here is to remember that Nucor has always been a low cost producer of steel and steel products.
And that's where we  that's all okay that's where we are really  that's where we shine.
So at the end of the day if there is potential closures here in the United States or somewhere else around the world this (58:51) I can assure you.
One of the names of the places closing will not be Nucor.
We'll be in business.
So it's hard for me to comment on who will close or how much will close but I can assure is this and my teammates can assure that we won't be one of the one that will be closing.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
I appreciate the comment.
That concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
At this time Mr.
Ferriola I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you.
Let me conclude by saying as I always do thank you to our shareholders we appreciate your confidence and your support.
Thank you to our customers.
We really appreciate your business.
And I want to say thank you to my Nucor teammates for creating value for our customers generating attractive returns for our shareholders and building a sustainable future for all of us.
And as always most importantly thank you all for doing it safely.
Thanks for your interest in Nucor.
Have a great day.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Nucor Corporation Third Quarter of 2015 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
Certain statements made during this conference will be forward-looking statements involving risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurances that future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risk and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10-K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference can speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligations to update them either as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good afternoon.
Thank you for joining us for our conference call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's senior management team: Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan Joe Stratman Dave Sumoski and Chad Utermark.
The entire executive management team would like to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris Steel David J.
Joseph Duferdofin NuMit Steel Technologies and Skyline Steel teams for your excellent work taking care of our customers and implementing our company strategy for long-term profitable growth.
Your hard work in these challenging market conditions is paying off.
First I will ask our CFO Jim Frias to review Nucor's third quarter performance and financial position.
Following Jim's comments I will update you on the execution of our strategy for long-term profitable growth.
Jim? Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</strong> Thanks John.
Third quarter 2015 earnings of $0.71 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of $0.45 to $0.50 per diluted share.
Third quarter results included a LIFO credit that was approximately $0.11 per diluted share larger than anticipated in our guidance for the quarter and a $0.03 per diluted share non-cash gain related to a correction of deferred tax balances.
Excluding LIFO and the tax related gain the third quarter outperformance resulted from better than expected results for the month of September at our steel mills and downstream products segments.
We are benefiting from the effective execution of Nucor's channel-to-market strategy and our ongoing investments to expand our offerings of value-added products.
We are successfully expanding into these higher margined offerings using more demanding and import resistant applications while at the same time maintaining our position as the low cost producer across our product portfolio.
The third quarter of 2015 performance of our raw materials segment included an operating loss at our new DRI facility in Louisiana of approximately $28 million which included a $7.7 million net charge related to the write-off of the two remaining storage domes at the facility.
That compared with a second quarter operating loss of about $20 million which included the benefit of a vendor product warranty payment of approximately $10 million.
As expected Nucor Steel Louisiana has now consumed the remaining higher cost iron ore inventory acquired in 2014.
In addition to continuing to produce DRI at world-class quality levels our Louisiana team has realized significant improvements in yield facility uptime and conversion costs.
Nucor's DRI production capability in Louisiana and Trinidad puts our company in an unrivaled position of flexibility and optimizing our raw material costs through the cycle.
A quick comment of our tax rate to adjust for the impact of profits from non-controlling interests.
Excluding profits belonging to our business partners and the $10.2 million non-cash gain for correction of deferred tax balances the effective tax rate was approximately 29% for the third quarter.
Nucor continued to generate very robust operating cash flow in extremely challenging steel market conditions.
With a highly variable and low cost structure we benefit from significant reductions in working capital during downturns.
That was the case again in the first 9 months of 2015 with cash provided by operations of approximately $1.8 billion a dramatic increase from the year ago period's operating cash flow of $926 million.
Nucor's financial position remains strong.
Our gross debt to capital ratio was 36% at the close of the third quarter.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $2 billion which compares with total debt outstanding of $4.4 billion.
Our next significant debt maturity is not until December 2017.
Nucor's strong liquidity position also includes our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility which remains undrawn.
The facility does not mature until August of 2018.
Nucor is the only North American steel producer to hold an investment grade credit rating.
Capital expenditures totaled $269 million for the first 9 months of 2015.
We estimate full year 2015 capital spending will be approximately $400 million.
Most of our recent larger scale organic investments have been completed or are nearing completion.
Depreciation and amortization for 2015 is expected to total about $700 million.
In September Nucor's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $900 million of our company's common stock.
This replaced a repurchase program that had been in place since 2007.
The timing and amount of repurchases will depend on market conditions share price applicable legal requirements and other factors.
The Nucor team places the highest priority on making sound capital allocation decisions that continue our long-term history of being effective stewards of our shareholders' investment.
Earnings in the fourth quarter of 2015 are expected to decrease compared to the third quarter of 2015 due to continued deterioration in global steel markets.
A slowing economy in China is causing further global overcapacity and resulting in significant levels of imports into the domestic market.
The performance of our downstream product segment is expected to decrease due to typical fourth quarter seasonality.
We expect slightly lower performance in the raw materials segment due to lower scrap and metallic commodity prices.
We are encouraged by the ongoing gradual improvement in non-residential construction markets and the strength in the automotive market.
We are confident that Nucor's significant competitive advantages and highly adaptable business model will allow our team to continue to execute our proven strategies for delivering profitable long-term growth.
We do appreciate your interest in our company.
John? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Jim.
Typical words used to describe current steel market conditions range from bleak to dismal.
However those words in no way describe the attitude and outlook of the Nucor team.
Even better those words also do not describe the performance of any of my teammates in the third quarter's extremely challenging environment.
At Nucor we remain optimistic determined and focused.
Nucor's long-term success has always been driven by our team's unrelenting focus on a simple strategy.
Nucor capitalizes on its unrivaled position of strength to gain profitable market share in our core businesses of steel and steel products.
In short we work on what's under our control.
Anchoring the strategy and its execution is Nucor's business model.
Its strength and adaptability is highlighted by a number of powerful building blocks.
They include our culture our robust balance sheet and cash flow generation our low and highly variable cost structure our flexibility and reliable production capabilities our product diversity and our leadership positions that we hold in many of the markets we serve.
Put together these competitive strengths provide Nucor with a powerful platform for delivering value to our customers.
Challenging market conditions as we face currently only serve to increase the opportunities to add value and grow our long-term relationships with our customers.
What we call Nucor's five drivers to profitable growth highlight where we are focusing our energies to build long-term earnings power and provide our shareholders with attractive returns on their valuable capital.
They are one enhance our position as a low cost producer.
Two achieve the market leadership position in every product line in our portfolio.
Three move up the value chain by expanding our capabilities to produce higher quality more import resistant products.
Four expand our downstream channels to market to increase our steel mills base volume load especially in weak markets.
And five achieve commercial excellence to complement our traditional operational strength.
Our third quarter performance provides strong evidence that our strategy of investing through the downturn is already paying off.
Rather than being stuck in a defensive mode fighting to survive the Nucor team is on the offensive and growing stronger.
The examples are numerous.
Let me review a few of them for you.
Through the first 9 months of 2015 our rebar and merchant bar mills delivered year-over-year earnings improvement despite the challenges of high imports and less than robust capacity utilization rates.
The keys to their success are clear.
They have built market leadership positions.
Equally important they have established strong channels to market through Nucor's downstream joist decking rebar fabrication cold finish bar and fastener businesses by providing our steel mills the opportunity to earn a base level of volume.
Our downstream vertical integration into value-added steel products significantly enhances the through the cycle profitability and flexibility of Nucor's core steel making business.
Additionally the downstream businesses are attractive profit generators for Nucor as well.
All three major fabricated construction products  joists and decking fabricated rebar and metal buildings  achieved very strong profit growth year over year in the third quarter and the first nine months of 2015.
I'm pleased to report that our Vulcraft Verco joist and decking group set a single month profitability record in September.
More importantly both our Vulcraft Verco group and our metal buildings group achieved record performance for the third quarter of 2015.
The improved results of our fabricated construction products group is particularly impressive when you consider the state of the overall construction (13:31  13:36) market.
Forecasted U.S.
non-residential construction activity for 2015 as measured by square footage represents only about 60% of 2007's peak activity level so there's plenty of room for additional growth.
I would like to congratulate and thank our teammates for their hard work reducing costs and providing world-class quality products and services to our customers.
Our beam mills also delivered attractive year-to-date earnings growth while facing high import levels and low mill capacity utilization.
Nucor's structural steel group's success is driven by a potent combination of its market leadership position strong channels to market throughout our independent wide-flange beam fabricated partners our Skyline Steel piling distribution business and new product introductions that continue to move us up the value chain.
After completing last year's $115 million sheet piling product expansion project our Nucor-Yamato mill is now enjoying strong marketplace success with its new wider piling sections.
These value added products are lighter and stronger covering more area at a lower installed cost.
Our Nucor-Yamato team is aggressively going after this market which currently is largely supplied by imports.
Our goal over the next several years is to grow our wider piling sections annual volume to 100 000 tons with these value added tons generating above average profitability.
Last month Nucor-Yamato announced another project to expand its value-added offerings a $75 million quench and self-tempering process will be installed with commissioning expected during the second half of 2016.
This will give Nucor-Yamato the capability to produce A913 structural sections with a high-strength low-alloy grade chemistry that provides excellent weldability while achieving good toughness even at low temperatures.
Common applications include gravity columns for high-rise buildings long-span trusses for stadiums and convention centers and for all projects where seismic design is a critical factor.
These A913 beams allow the use of lighter foot weights which reduces the weight and cost for the builder.
That makes steel even more competitive versus concrete and wood.
The low-alloy grade chemistry also enhances our position as a low cost producer of beams.
As the sole North American supplier of high-strength low-alloy beams Nucor-Yamato will further enhance its market leadership position in wide-flange beams.
Nucor's focus on our drivers to profitable growth and resulting strategic investments are paying big dividends in our other businesses.
This is particularly evident in the markets that are under the greatest pressure from the flood of imports and other challenges.
Our Berkeley County South Carolina sheet mill achieved very solid third quarter and year-to-date profitability in what can only be described as horrific flat-rolled market conditions.
The Berkeley team is capitalizing on its investments in vacuum degassing combined with upgrades last year to its caster and hot mill.
The mill's performance is being driven by its very diverse product mix technical capabilities and commitment to commercial excellence.
As we have discussed on previous calls Berkeley now has the lightest hot-rolled gauge capability of any sheet mill in the southern U.S.
market and with a finished steel capability of up to 74 inches.
New products from the wide light modernization are allowing us to gain new business in a range of end use markets including metal buildings railcars water heaters automotive heavy equipment and water transmission pipe.
Despite severe pressure from imports and demand weakness in several key end use markets Nucor's engineered bar mills remain profitable.
We are moving aggressively to utilize our recently expanded range of production and inspection capabilities to grow profitable market share in the SBQ and wire rod markets.
Our Memphis mill was recently awarded automotive crankshaft business that is a direct result of its quality inspection investments made since 2012.
This week Memphis announced another improvement the very cost effective acquisition of a continuous quench and temper line with a separate annealing furnace capable of processing bar products from 2.5 inches to 11 inches in diameter.
The addition of heat treating capabilities will enable Memphis to grow in a number of markets including energy heavy equipment service centers and automotive.
The automotive market continues to be an attractive growth opportunity for Nucor.
Nucor's shipping rate into the automotive market increased by 20% in 2015 versus 2014 to a 1.4 million tons per year rate.
Particularly encouraging is the volume of business that Nucor is being awarded on future automotive platforms.
The automotive companies are more and more appreciating the value of Nucor's reliability sustainability and our financial strength.
Our portfolio of light weighting advanced high-strength steels is also attracting a lot of interest.
We remain optimistic about reaching our 2 million tons annual goal in the next few years.
Finally our Darlington South Carolina facility's wire rod rolling mill continues to grow Nucor's market share in the wire rod market.
Year to date rod shipments through the first 9 months are up 11% compared to 2014.
Darlington's wire rod growth is also allowing us to more efficiently utilize the capacity at our other bar mills producing merchant bar and rebar products.
Since I have mentioned several times the challenging market conditions faced by all of our businesses I will share my thoughts on what is by far the biggest factor driving the weakness.
Illegally traded imports continue to have a significant impact on the U.S.
steel industry.
The underlying issue is global steel making overcapacity resulting from the trade distorting practices of some governments.
Steel imports into the U.S.
market remain at historically high levels.
The import levels are depressing the capacity utilization rates of the U.S.
steel producers and continue to account for one-third of the U.S.
market.
In the first 8 months of this year China's global steel exports surged 27% to 72 million tons.
They are on track to exceed 100 million tons which is greater than the total U.S.
steel production last year.
Steel products from China are flooding into markets around the world creating a domino effect as countries look for markets for their steel products.
The massive increase in China's steel exports are provoking a wave of trade actions across the globe including Europe South Africa Mexico and India as steel producers fight against the illegally subsidized steel imports being dumped into their markets.
As these nations continue to successfully protect their markets from illegally traded and subsidized Chinese steel products more of those products are being dumped into our market.
Recent decisions in several trade cases have been positive for the U.S.
industry.
The International Trade Commission has made preliminary determinations of injury in the cold-rolled hot-rolled and corrosion resistant sheet steel trade cases allowing the investigation in all three cases to proceed.
Nucor will continue to assess market conditions in other product areas and aggressively pursue cases when appropriate.
Our fight against illegally traded steel imports is essential to meeting our responsibility to be an effective steward of our shareholders' valuable capital.
These are challenging times.
But for a company such as Nucor one that is in a unique position of strength these are also times for opportunistic action.
And that is exactly what I see throughout Nucor.
The right people focusing their unrivaled energy level and sense of urgency to achieving our goal of profitable growth.
I have never been more confident that Nucor's best years are still ahead of us.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
We would now be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good afternoon everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Hi.
Congrats on a strong quarter.
I think you kind of beat my number on pricing alone.
Actually the volume number was a little bit weak.
So it was  it kind of let me to believe that perhaps you're taking a pretty disciplined approach about which steel you actually want to sell into the market at this point and perhaps you may be walking away from some lower value sales that are head to head with imports.
So just kind of wanted to confirm that.
And get a sense about how you think about selling into a weak market like this? And what that's doing to your mix? And then how does that kind of play into how you see operating rates in the fourth quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me start by saying you hit the nail on the head with your analysis.
We mentioned during my earlier comments that a key part of our strategic plan is to continue to grow market share in the higher quality higher margin more profitable products.
And that's exactly what we've been doing.
So yes that has some impact on our total output.
The higher quality products although they are more profitable do tend to run slower on our mills.
So that has some impact upon the amount of tons that we ship.
But you're spot on.
We're looking hard at those products that we believe bring higher margins higher profits to our company.
And that are also more import resistant.
Given the overcapacity in the world today we believe that that's an important element of our long-term strategy.
Great.
And maybe just a question on trade.
I've heard a couple conflicting views on how the process works.
And I just wanted to try to clarify this.
But obviously over the past couple of months in particular we've really seeing seaborne steel prices just absolutely get crushed.
And clearly that data would be good to have in these trade cases as far as proving dumping.
Is there an opportunity for the mills to go back and add some of this data before the final rulings come out at some point next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There absolutely is.
In fact in some cases as is the case with the rebar we were not at all happy with the determination on the tariff that was applied to the product surging into our country from Turkey.
And we're considering strongly going back and appealing that decision.
And obviously we will use the pricing data that you just mentioned as a strong component in that appeal.
So yes we can use that information that's out there today.
And we will use it effectively.
And I would just add to that that we spoke a little bit in the past about the recently passed legislation that strengthens the trade remedies that are available to us.
And frankly giving us more effective tools for fighting against this illegally trade products.
And we're really pleased with the way that that came out.
We're very appreciative to the administration and to Congress for making that happen.
And those new regulations those new guidelines will be applied to the trade cases that are in effect going into effect now.
The corrosion-resistant the hot-rolled and the cold-rolled will all be impacted by the new trade remedies that are currently in effect.
And as a result we're optimistic as to the outcome of these.
We think we have very strong cases and we expect to have very positive results.
Great.
And just to clarify that just one more time sorry if I'm being a little bit dense here.
But the data that's coming out today would you have to wait to appeal if you wanted to include that? So after the trade case is finalized.
Or can you actually get that in maybe between the preliminary and the final ruling a little bit sooner? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me be clear.
I might have confused the issue there for a minute.
I was speaking in the case of rebar where there was a determination we will be able to use that pricing data as we go back into the appeal.
In the cases of cold-rolled and hot-rolled and corrosion-resistant we will be able to use that pricing data in these current cases.
We will not have to wait for a determination and then use them in an appeal.
They can be entered into the case as we press it forward.
Very clear.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not now? Okay.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Matt Murphy with UBS.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Maybe just a follow-up on the mix question there.
So in particular I noticed cold finished was fairly low relatively to where you've been at in Q3 in past years and the same with plate.
Just wondering if you can share any color on that? Is that specifically choosing not to compete on price? Or is there demand weakness? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In those two instances you just gave it's more of a case of the demand is frankly still pretty good relative to last year.
Our demand across all of our products is about consistent maybe down 2% or 3%.
The issue that we're struggling with particularly on plate is the massive amount of illegally traded unfairly traded products coming in from many countries particularly Russia is one that I would mention in particular.
So it's an issue of excessive supply as a result of imports.
There is a little bit of a demand decrease when you look at agriculture and in construction using heavy plate.
So there's a little bit of a demand impact.
But the real issue on plate without a doubt is the supply and the oversupply as a result of the imports.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And then just a follow-up on the structural pricing.
That was another area I noticed that had come down a bit faster in Q3.
How are you seeing structural pricing going forward? Is it sliding? Or do you think you can keep it stable? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We think structural pricing going forward will be fairly stable.
Inc.</span></strong> That's easy.
Okay.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Matthew Korn with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Inc.</span></strong> So I'm wondering are there any customers  any buyers from whom you've received orders for maybe the first time in a while? Who are shifting away from imported steel in anticipation of the effect of trade cases? And on the flipside are there any buyers out there who have told you right now we're good.
Inventories are okay.
I'm seeing this gap down in scrap prices and I kind of see to  I need to see where we're going to shake out coming into the New Year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well you've asked two questions.
And the answer to both of them frankly is yes.
We are seeing customers coming back to us who are recognizing that right now their inventories are a little bit bloated.
So we don't see them pouring in right now with new orders.
But we are hearing from them that because of the trade cases and frankly because our pricing has become much more competitive relative to imported pricing that they have not placed the orders for imports to the same level that they have in the past.
And as you know when you're talking about import orders there's about a 2-month to 3-month maybe 4-month sometimes depending upon the product delay or a lag time between when the order was placed and when product arrives.
So many of our service center customers in particular are recognizing that the orders that they placed 2 months 3 months 4 months ago now do not look nearly as attractive.
And unfortunately they're on the water they're on the way and they can't be cancelled.
So we're going to see this issue of heavy inventories continue for a little bit of time.
But ultimately we do believe that because we're more competitive today and because they have seen some other issues with lead times from the imported products we'll be able to regain that business.
We see our customers coming back to us from the imports.
The other comment that I'll make just in general you asked about other customers coming back to us.
We're also seeing many new customers approaching us because they see Nucor as a company with a very strong financial position and sustainable.
They know we're going to be here for the long term.
And there's some other companies that might be a little bit more challenged particularly if this challenging time continues for another quarter or 2 quarters.
So the answer to your question is yes and the answer to your question is yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Very helpful.
Let me follow-up with that really quickly and just say look the details of the organic product and the capacity development that you're doing that's great.
How are you thinking about use of available capital in terms of M&amp;A? Is there any sense of look we're in strong financial shape especially relative to the group.
We're expecting the bottom to come in sooner than later.
Let's get active.
Let's find other assets.
Let's tuck-in some more downstream facilities.
Is that  where's your thinking there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'm going to answer that in a more general sense and talk about how we view what we're doing with our cash.
We have been a strong cash generator.
This is not a very good year in terms of cash generation from operations.
And certainly acquisitions would be one thing that we will look at.
But in a more general sense when I think about the deployment of our cash going forward our first priority will always be aggressive growth profitable growth in our company.
And that can be done several ways.
Organic growth has been for us one of the ways that we get the largest returns for the investments that we've made.
And you've heard us list today and in the past conference calls numerous projects in which we are growing our company profitably through organic investments in our existing operations.
Frankly acquisitions is another way that we are deploying our cash to accomplish profitable growth.
Skyline would be an example of that.
Fairly recent  more recent than that would be our Gallatin acquisition.
So yes.
We're looking at that.
It's a way to not only grow our volumes but to grow our customer base and grow the breadth of our products.
And that's something that's very important as we look potential targets out there.
And I take this opportunity to just remind you of one other way that we can grow our company through investments.
And that's we got a pretty good track record of growing through greenfield expansion.
And I know that there's a lot of overcapacity.
And everybody is lifting their eyebrows and rolling their eyes when I say that but we are constantly looking for unique market opportunities or product niches in which we can grow our  through greenfield expansion.
Inc.</span></strong> Excellent.
Thanks for the time and good luck for the next quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
We'll take our next question from Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yeah.
Hey good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
So I also wanted to follow-up if I could on the cash level because it is the highest that you've had since 2009.
And that was maybe hunkering down.
So I guess I just wanted to know is that preparing for restocking? Does the message about your reauthorized buyback program send a signal? Or just I know there's a lot of uses of cash.
I'm just wondering this is a pretty big cash hoard even for you.
So I just wondered if you could provide any priorities of how you're thinking about using them if you could? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I've mentioned that the number one priority is to profitably grow our company.
And that will always be our first priority.
In terms of building up a large cash reserve or a war chest how are we looking at that I don't think that we're really looking at it as a need to be able to grow our inventories our working capital as the businesses get better.
That's really not  that is not what is driving it.
The opportunity for opportunistic buys as we go forward again as this challenging time extends out there might be opportunities as we've done in the past to pick up some very good assets at a very good price.
You know Timna that one our strategies has always been to grow our company during the downturns when assets are less expensive.
So we think that that's going to be happening as we go forward.
We think there's going to be more assets available at good prices.
We want to make sure that we're prepared to capitalize on those opportunities.
So we have that.
And that's one of the reasons that we're making sure that we preserve our cash.
Now to your questions about dividends and buyback programs I'll make just a couple of comments.
Now first of all as you know we pay a very health dividend today.
And we've proven in the past that when our profit levels are such that we could pay out a supplemental dividend without adversely affecting our ability to aggressively grow and profitably grow our company we'll do it.
Right now that's not the case.
And in terms of the buyback what we did was we asked our board to authorize a buyback program that was frankly in place so really just refreshing a program that had already been authorized and had been on the books for many years.
We did that.
We want to be prepared for a situation where there might be limited profitable growth opportunities that do not provide a large enough return that would outweigh the repurchasing of our stock.
In other words when we take a look at the opportunities in front of us we want to make sure that the return that we gain from those acquisitions those investments surpass what we would gain for our shareholders by repurchasing the stock.
If that's not the case we want to be ready.
If that situation should come up suddenly we want to be ready.
One thing about this industry Timna as you know it changes.
And when change occurs it occurs rapidly.
And we made this move just so that we're ready for that eventuality.
Okay.
No doubt.
There's a lot of assets in mining if you decide to branch out there.
So not making a suggestion just saying.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well and I'll just pick up on that suggestion for a minute not respond to it directly.
But one of the things that you have to remember about our company we have such a broad portfolio of businesses such a large portfolio of upstream core businesses our downstream.
If you look at our various businesses we have about 12 businesses that provide an opportunity in which we can invest.
That's a large number of opportunities and it spans a very broad spectrum of opportunity.
So as I look at the situation going forward we can see opportunities both upstream core business and downstream.
And we want to make sure that we're ready.
We think they're going to be coming available as this  as people struggle to get through this challenging time.
And we want to be positioned to take advantage of that to capitalize on that.
Okay.
I wanted to ask if I could about the  my second question would be about the raw material segment.
And I cringe to ask this but I know that you're probably not delighted to be reporting losses in the segment.
And I know that DRI was looking a lot better positioned when met coal prices were much higher.
But what are you thinking about doing to fix that segment and reverse it or is it just strategic and you're okay with losses there for now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well as we've said many times that our DRI investment is a investment for the long term.
And that we recognized and we recognized right from the beginning that there's going to be pricing situations in raw materials in which the DRI investment is going to be a single and times when it's going to be a home run and times when it's going to be a grand slam.
But the other point that I would make is that we always look at our investments for the long term.
And when you look at the macro impact reasons for making the investment the fact that manufacturing is leaving the country and with it prime scrap.
When you look at long term we still believe that the availability and the pricing for natural gas will be much more attractive than that for coking coal.
When you look at the improvement in the efficiency of automotive blanking which results in less prime scrap availability even in periods where the automotive market is very strong.
For all of these reasons as we look long term we believe that having the ability to produce a low residual scrap substitute product for Nucor is going to be a very good investment.
Okay.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And if I may Timna what  if I can which is I let you ask a second question maybe you can make me  let me make a second statement about this response.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And that's one thing that we  I don't know that we emphasize enough when we talk about the DRI project and what it does for us.
And that gives us  it's that it gives us tremendous flexibility in our selection of raw material use for our currencies (44:11).
And by using that flexibility we're able to impact other scrap or other iron unit products.
And that has been very beneficial to us.
I mean you saw  you've seen the impact of that a couple of months ago when we saw such a tremendous drop in scrap.
And I would also suggest to you that whenever we put in or take out 4 million tons of a scrap substitute product it's going to have an impact on other iron unit products.
It's just going to have an impact.
So it gives us tremendous flexibility and the ability to better utilize our scrap mix to enhance our low cost position as a steel supplier.
Okay.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Jorge Beristain with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Jorge Beristain with DB here.
I had a question about the bar volumes that we saw decline sequentially 8% quarter on quarter even exceeding that of sheet.
Could you give some color as to what's happening in bars? Obviously we know that energy has been weak.
But are there any other end markets that bars would be going into that would account for that kind of sequential weakness? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well again you hit the nail on the head.
Certainly energy in which a lot of our special bar quality products go into energy.
That has taken a tremendous hit.
We mentioned earlier agricultural.
That has been way down.
And of course we have a lot of product bar products long products going into agriculture.
So that's another area where we've seen a declining market.
And finally I would say heavy equipment.
And the heavy equipment market is down.
And once again I'm going to go back to my favorite subject and that's of unfairly traded imports because when you look at particularly rebar the tsunami of unfairly traded rebar into this country over the last year has been  it's just totally unacceptable.
And it has had a tremendous impact upon our volume and our profitability in that area in our bar products.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And maybe just following up on Timna's question earlier about your raw material segment.
Could you just give us some color as to the sort of quarter-on-quarter deterioration that we saw? You had pointed to an improvement in DRI.
So are we to assume that it's really deterioration in the scrap purchasing there that's bringing down the results? Or can you give us just some color as to what's going on there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I don't have the exact number in my head for the amount that scrap has gone down over the quarter.
But I can tell you that there has been recent movements that over the quarter  what would you say Joe? How much has it been down over the quarter scrap pricing? Scrap pricing over the quarter has dropped about $70.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> $50 to $70.
And when you have that kind of a scrap price drop it certainly has an impact on our scrap operations.
So yes we've seen improvement in our DRI performance and the performance of our DRI plant.
But the raw material has suffered as a result of the  our scrap operations.
And just to be clear Jorge this is Joe Stratman the recycling scrap processing side of our business is where that would be.
On the brokerage and services side that metallics pricing really doesn't affect a lot of the margin or profitability in that sector.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks very much.
We'll take our next question from Michael Gambardella with JPMorgan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Michael.
Hey good afternoon.
Hi.
How are you? Just I wanted to...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> (48:14) Good good.
I wanted to follow-up on one of your comments earlier on trade in terms of someone was asking about putting recent numbers into the trade case decision.
Since the coated antidumping this preliminary decision was pushed back from November to I think December 21.
I mean what is the time period in which they'll be looking at data? From what to what period? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well as a general statement they're looking at data today.
But frankly it'll be mostly into December into the first quarter where they'll be doing their analysis.
We do expect to have some kind of a rulings on the coated sometime in the first quarter.
And probably hot-rolled and cold-rolled would be a little bit later than that.
Towards  some time towards the latter part of the first quarter in terms of getting the final determinations.
Is that what you're asking? Well I was saying that the  I thought the preliminary decision on the first case the coated case was due out on December 21.
And I'm just asking there must be some period of time in which they look at data to decide what the decision is.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all  if you're asking is that data being considered now? Is that's the question? I'm sorry I'm not following you.
Well is current data current market activity right now being considered in the decision? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Yes.
And when do they cut off? Okay we're going to stop looking at data and we're going to  for the decision? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well remember that we get to testify during the final argument so to speak before the determination is made.
Clearly we will bring up pricing today pricing between now and the time of the hearings and the final  excuse me the testimony in the final hearings.
And all of that will be submitted and be considered.
But you're still expecting the preliminary coated decisions on anti-dumping to be out as they're saying right now on December 21? Or are you saying you think it's going to be later? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's actually just the  for the AD case it's actually December 30 to be specific.
And for the countervailing duty case it has been extended out to November 2.
Right.
And last question just again on trade.
Are there any similarities between now and back at the end of 2001 in the Chinese hot-rolled case where Chinese have basically been locked out of hot-rolled since then with a 90% tariff? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There are some similarities.
And actually the way that it differs is that the amount of hot-rolled and all steel products that China is exporting today compared to where it was back then has increased by a magnitude of I don't know 10 [times] 20 [times] 30%  times rather.
It's just unbelievable.
But they're talking about exporting.
I think the number year to date that's coming out of China somewhere around 72 million tons year to date.
It's expected to go up to over 100 million tons this year.
Bearing in mind that the entire U.S.
market is 100 million tons that's a ridiculous amount to be exported out of one country.
And it's a direct consequence of their building a tremendous amount of overcapacity in China.
So yeah there's some similarities in the sense that they're flooding the market today.
They flooded the market then.
And we will be aggressive in pursuing cases against them today as we were back in 2000.
Okay.
Thanks John.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Lane with Morningstar.
Hi good afternoon.
First could you provide some color as to the integration of Nucor Steel Gallatin? Given that it was about a year ago around this date that the acquisition was completed has the contribution of Gallatin fallen in line with your expectations? And then also in terms of the virgin iron units at Gallatin are those being supplied via imported material or via DRI produced in-house? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all I have to say no to the first part of your question.
The integration is not going as we expected it to go.
Frankly it's going much much better.
And we knew going into that  into the acquisition that we had a lot of similarities in our culture.
And clearly cultural compatibility is very high on our list of targets that we look to acquire.
And all I can say  and I hope our teammates in Gallatin are listening  those guys have done a great job coming up to speed.
They are doing a great job of integrating and simulating into the Nucor culture.
We share a lot of similar cultural traits.
And in one area frankly  and I want to thank them for this.
In one area they helped us get a whole lot better.
And that was in the area of safety.
Safety performance before the acquisition was outstanding their commitment to working safe is phenomenal.
And the way they run their safety programs is phenomenal.
And we've learned quite a bit from them.
So despite the fact that Gallatin is operating today in an extremely tough market.
The energy which is a big product coming out of Gallatin as you know has been really really challenged.
But our teammates are doing what we always do at Nucor and that is finding new ways new products.
One example would be that they are working hard to qualify for automotive products.
And we expect them to be successful in that attempt.
And all I can say is it is without a doubt going much better than we anticipated.
And one other comment to your question about the where are they getting their raw materials from? Obviously on the scrap side there's a lot of synergies with our DJJ operations right up the road is River Metals (55:00).
And in scrap substitutes today they are taking scrap substitutes in.
We are working to modify the plant so that it can accept DRI out of our Louisiana plant.
And we expect that to be up and running some time the end of next year first part of 2017 the DRI.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> 16 months to 18 months.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Somewhere around 16 months to 18 months.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then as a second question could you provide an update on where you stand with the high cost iron ore inventory position you've been digesting at the Louisiana DRI facility? And then what portion of the $28 million of losses at Nucor Steel Louisiana were driven by that particular factor during the quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me start off by saying that this is the second time in your one question where you've made me smile.
Question about Gallatin made me smile about how well that has gone.
And I'm smiling now because I can tell you we have completely digested the higher cost iron ore.
We've worked our way completely through that.
And so the second part of your question was of the $28 million loss in the quarter.
Now first of all I would suggest that the number is actually closer to...
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> $20 million.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> $20 million because of the impact.
Jim you want to jump in on the impact of the $7 million? Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yeah.
We had some raw material iron ore storage domes that we made a decision that we were not going to continue to use.
And so we had an asset write-down for I think just under $8 million.
But John I think his question is of the $20 million loss how much was driven by higher cost iron ore.
And I don't think we have that number...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> ...at our finger tips.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We don't have that number.
I don't think.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> But they did finish using the iron ore that was on hand.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> There might be a little trace amount left but not anything notable.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And I  one of the things that if you'll  another reason why I'm smiling to be honest with you is that our Louisiana plant was cash positive for the last 2 months and that's a significant improvement.
Now they will continue to be challenged given the current pricing of raw materials in general.
That's going to be a challenging operation for a while.
As I said earlier we don't expect it to be a grand slam in this pricing environment.
But long term we have a great deal of confidence that it was a good investment and will pay large dividends over the long run.
Much appreciated.
Congrats on a solid quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Inc.</span></strong> A question on the automotive business and just want to understand where we are in terms of the kind of the absolute tonnage penetration? And maybe if you could give us a breakout of products within that number whether it be cold finish bar hot band SBQ cold rolled? Just kind of a general thought process here.
And then how you're looking to grow that market going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
That's a great question.
It's an area that we're very proud of the way that we've been able to grow that business.
When you ask about specific shipment rates in 2015 we are on track to ship at a rate of about 1.4 million tons a year.
And that's about a 20% improvement over where we were last year.
In terms of a breakdown between sheet and cold finish today about 85% of our products going into automotive are in sheet products and 15% coming out of some form of SBQ or cold finish.
And in terms of where we want to go the sky is the limit ultimately.
But over the next 2 years to 3 years we are confident that we will be able to grow that business to a rate of about 2 million tons of shipments per year going into automotive.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I  2 million [tons] is what you said.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We want grow it to 2 million [tons].
Okay? Over the next 2 years to 3 years.
Beyond that we will continue to grow in that market as we will continue to grow in all high quality higher valued and more import resistant products.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of what your feelers are out there on non-residential construction and what those are telling you.
What's the read at this point in time? Just noticing the fabrication I think volumes were down a little bit year on year.
Any sense of why that's the case? Just trying to get a better feel for your view of non-res and what your indicators are telling you right now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I would start off by saying that we do think that the rate of growth in non-residential construction as we measure it in square footage has slowed.
At the beginning of the year we were anticipating somewhere about an 8% or 9% growth over the course of the year.
Today we would say that that number is probably closer to 5% or 6% today.
So we do see the rate of increase the rate of growth slowing as the year has progressed.
Now when I look at our business in particular Nucor's business and our downstream businesses what's frankly going to the non-residential construction.
And we're feeling pretty good about our backlogs.
Our backlogs today in all three of our downstream businesses  Vulcraft Verco building systems and Harris  our backlogs are the largest they have been the strongest they have been in a 10-year period.
And when you couple that with the profitability that we talked about earlier we've had a very good quarter for our downstream businesses.
Although we see the rate of improvement slowing we still feel pretty good about our downstream businesses and their ability to compete in the construction market.
Inc.</span></strong> Well in terms of the shipments John was that year-over-year comparison a bit negative because maybe there was some overbuying in Q1 and you need a quarter to level that out? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Because your backlog is pretty strong from what you're saying right now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And it's hard to take a look at  that's a business that  those projects are long-term projects some of them spanning several years.
So as you look at the length of time it becomes cyclical.
The order entry rate becomes cyclical.
The shipping rates will become cyclical.
So it's hard to look at any one particular quarter and compare it to another particular period of time.
You've got to really look at the overall order entry rate and the backlogs.
And that's what we use to track how we see the business performing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I have one high level political/philosophical question and then I'll jump off.
I guess first your thoughts on a long-term highway bill and if you see any light at the end of the tunnel there.
And then in terms of the TPP are you (1:02:35  1:02:37) concerned if that's  are you concerned if that measure is passed without any further safeguards like FX manipulation? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I'll start with that one.
But I would like to address both of them.
We are absolutely concerned about TPP passing in its present form.
Now remember we all all of us have not yet gotten a chance to take a look at the complete document.
So I'm not going to say whether or not we would favor it or we would struggle with it until we have an opportunity to read and study the entire document which we have not had at this time.
That said I will say that we are extremely extremely disappointed that it's not  that currency manipulation is not more strongly baked into that agreement.
At the end of the day you can have all kinds of trade agreements and if a country manipulates its currency it's guaranteed to have an unfair trade advantage.
And so we have  what we are insisting upon with TPP is that it does as it's promising to do and that is to provide a more level playing field on which we can compete.
We at Nucor are absolutely convinced that if we were given a level playing field to compete upon we would compete successfully against any company or any country in the world.
So we're taking a hard look at TPP before we come out with a definitive statement but you are absolutely correct in saying that currency manipulation not being a part of that agreement makes us really struggle about the impact it will have on our company the impact it'll have on our industry the impact it'll have on manufacturing in the United States and the impact most importantly that it'll have upon middle class Americans working hard to make a living and to make a better life for themselves and their family.
So you got a little philosophical.
So did I.
Okay? Now to infrastructure.
Once again I have to say that I'm disappointed in the administration and frankly in Congress in not taking advantage of what I consider a great opportunity.
Right now steel costs are down.
What a time to focus on rebuilding our infrastructure.
Okay? Energy.
Okay? How important is energy in our  going forward in a manufacturing world and for our country frankly? What a great time to be able to rebuild our energy infrastructure our power grids.
And frankly with the price of oil where it is today and the resulting price of gasoline at the pump it seems to me like this would be a great time to be able to  and I know this is politically unpopular but I'm not running for office so I can say it.
Okay? This would be a great time to just put a little bump onto the tax of the tax rate on gasoline and use that money to rebuild the crumbling infrastructure of this country.
What an embarrassment.
30 years 40 years 50 years ago we were  our country was known for its infrastructure.
People came here to study how we build bridges.
And today you look at it.
And overall our bridges our infrastructure as a whole just recently received a D-plus.
And they were bragging on the fact that it wasn't really D it was D-plus.
Okay? We don't need infrastructure  if we're going to have a manufacturing powerhouse in the 21st century we need infrastructure that gets an A-plus not a D-plus.
This is a great opportunity to rebuild our infrastructure.
I'm extremely disappointed that we continue to kick the can down the road on funding with three-month extensions after extension after extension.
I believe that there's something like 33 or 34 three-month extensions since 2008.
That's an embarrassment.
And I really hope that our leaders step up to the plate and do not miss this great opportunity to rebuild the infrastructure in this country.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks John.
Amen.
We'll take our next question from Brian Yu with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
Good afternoon John Jim.
Just piggybacking off Phil's question earlier on the auto side.
With the growth to 2 million tons is that related for equipment upgrade and qualifications or is that more marketing in terms of you're getting Nucor product onto the next auto build? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Well clearly the way that we have been able to grow our automotive presence has been through investments in our company.
The vacuum-tank degassers throughout all of our sheet mills the wide light project at Berkeley that  the work that we've done and the advances that we have made in our advanced high strength steels those have opened the doors for us in growing our automotive presence.
And I also have to say that the automotive companies recognizing the long-term sustainability of Nucor and the quality and service that we've been able to provide for them have attracted them and given us the opportunity to grow in those areas.
In terms of your specific question relative to how we see it growing over the next 2 years the answer to that would be a yes.
We're basing that upon qualifications that we've already  have been through and have passed and qualified for applications in future platforms and commitments that have been made to us on future platforms.
So we are confident in that projection of 2 million tons to 3 million tons.
I would also add just one more thing on that is you mentioned the commercial and marketing.
We recognize the need to improve our marketing into automotive.
And to that end we've established a sales office right in Detroit.
It's the first time Nucor has had a sales office located in Detroit.
We've named a sales manager to oversee automotive specifically.
And this is an extremely experienced guy with a lot of years in the service.
And again we're confident that we will be able to commit the  we will be able to fulfill the commitment that I'm making to you and that our commercial team has made to me that we will get to 2 million tons over the next 2 years to 3 years.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the detail.
And then second one on natural gas I know you guys have stopped drilling with Encana there for a couple years.
Could you give us an update on how you're positioned there? With the wells declining how are you looking at 2016? Any need or desire to hedge out your gas exposure? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right now given the pricing that we're seeing in natural gas and that we expect to continue through 2016 we don't see any significant change in our drilling program.
There might be a couple of wells that we might have to drill in order to maintain the leases on the property.
And we would want to do that.
We've got some great property there and we want to maintain the leases on those properties.
But frankly I don't see us changing our drilling program at this time.
And in terms of hedging we feel confident that we see natural gas pricing remaining low for at least next year.
And so we're pretty comfortable with our gas positions.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Is there a meaningful earnings impact from those wells decline...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Can you repeat that? I didn't catch the last part of that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
With gas at $2.40 $2.50 I'm wondering how does that compare with your share of the offtake from those natural gas wells? And as those wells decline and produce less and you're buying more from the open market is there a perceivable difference in the cost of the two that we could see an earnings impact? Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> The wells are incurring a very small loss right now but they're actually cash flow positive.
So it's not meaningful.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That was Jim Frias.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Now is that the end of the questions? Yes.
This does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
For closing remarks I'd like to turn the conference back to Mr.
John Ferriola for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Well let me conclude by saying thank you to our shareholders for your confidence and your support.
Thank you to our customers.
We truly appreciate your business.
We know that without you there would be no us.
And I want to say thank you to my Nucor teammates for creating value for our customers generating attractive returns for our shareholders and building a sustainable future for all of us.
And most importantly thank you all for doing it safely.
Thanks for your interest in Nucor.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Welcome to the Nucor Corporation Fourth quarter and Year-End 2015 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Certain statements made during this conference call will be forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
The words we expect believe anticipate and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations and information that is currently available.
Although Nucor believes they are based on reasonable assumptions there can be no assurance future events will not affect their accuracy.
More information about the risks and uncertainties relating to these forward-looking statements may be found in Nucor's latest 10K and subsequently filed 10-Qs which are available on the SEC's and Nucor's website.
The forward-looking statements made in this conference call speak only as of this date and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Ferriola Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President of Nucor Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for joining us for our Conference Call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Nucor.
With me for today's call are the other members of Nucor's Senior Management Team.
Chief Financial Officer Jim Frias and our other Executive Vice Presidents Jim Darsey Ladd Hall Ray Napolitan Joe Stratman Dave Sumoski and Chad Utermark.
Your leadership team in Charlotte would like to thank everyone on our Nucor Harris deal David J Joseph Duferdofin Nucor Steel Technologies and skyline steel teams for your hard work every day to build a safer stronger and more profitable Nucor and extremely turbulent global steel industry conditions we are taking advantage of Nucor's unrivalled competitive position and highly flexible business model to grow our companies long term earnings power while many of our competitors are fighting to survive this protracted downturn more than 23 000 teammates are positioning Nucor to continue to thrive in the years ahead.
Jim Frias will now renew Nucor's fourth quarter performance and financial position.
Following his comments I will update you on the execution of our strategy for long term profitable growth.
Jim? Thanks John.
Fourth quarter of 2015 adjusted earnings of $0.46 per diluted share excluding impairment charges of $237 million exceeded our guidance range of $0.15 to $0.20 per diluted share.
Fourth quarter results included a LIFO credit of $218 million somewhat higher than the $181 million LIFO credit projected in our guidance.
The larger than expected LIFO credit increased our earnings for the quarter by approximately $0.07 per diluted share.
The biggest factor driving our fourth quarter outperformance was stronger than forecast results for the month of December at our steel mills particularly the sheet mills and our downstream product segments.
Nucor continues to benefit from effective execution of our channel to market strategy and our ongoing investments to expand our offerings of value-added products.
At the same time all of our Nucor teams continue their unrelenting focus on maintaining our position as the low cost producer across our extremely diverse product portfolio.
During the fourth quarter of 2015 we recorded two non-cash impairment charges totaling $237 million a $153 million charge reduced the value of our equity method investment in the Duferdofin - Nucor steel making joint venture in Italy.
In addition an $84 million charge was taken to write-off the entire amount of certain assets primarily engineering planes and equipment related to a potential blast furnace project at our St.
James Parrish Louisiana site.
Due to technology advances and other factors we no longer expect to use those plans if we proceed with the blast furnace project.
Including these impairment charges Nucor's consolidated net loss for the quarter was $62 million or $0.19 per diluted share.
Our deferred at the Nucor impairment charge reflects the ongoing financial performance and deterioration in near term projections for this business.
The 50% ownership in Duferdofin - Nucor was acquired in July 2008 for approximately $667 million.
Although market conditions in Europe remain extremely weak we are very pleased with the dedication and hard work of our approximately 700 teammates at Duferdofin - Nucor.
They have achieved very significant improvements in costs and product mix.
As one example conversion costs at our [indiscernible] melt shop have reached world class levels.
Duferdofin - Nucor is also successfully expanding its portfolio to include value-added and more import resistant products such as engineered varieties [ph] blooms and billets as well as special profiles.
Across the entire organization our Duferdofin - Nucor teammates have embraced and taken ownership of a culture focused on safety environmental stewardship and production efficiency.
All of these initiatives are focused on achieving consistent profitability for the joint venture in the near future.
A quick comment about our fourth quarter of 2015 tax rate as it can be confusing due to the impact of profits from non-controlling interests and the impairment charges.
Excluding profits belonging to our business partners and the two non-cash charges the effective tax rate was approximately 31% for the fourth quarter.
Nucor continues to generate very robust operating cash flow in extremely challenging steel market conditions.
With our highly variable and low cost structure we benefit from significant reductions in working capital during downturns.
2015 cash provided by operations was approximately $2.2 billion a dramatic increase from 2014s operating cash flow of about $1.3 billion.
It also represents our strongest cash flow performance since 2008's record level of $2.5 billion.
Over this prolonged steel industry downturn that began in 2009 Nucor's annual operating cash flow generation has averaged approximately $1.3 billion.
That compares with average annual operating cash flow of $500 million to the previous cyclical downturn from 2001 to 2003.
2015 capital expenditures were $365 million.
For 2016 we estimate capital spending of approximately $500 million.
Depreciation and amortization for 2016 is expected to total about $700 million.
Most of our recent larger scale organic growth projects have been completed or are nearing completion.
Nucor's financial strength allows us to invest in capital projects and strategic acquisitions during severe industry downturns when the long term returns are most attractive.
Through the downturn that began in 2009 and continued with a vengeance in 2015 Nucor has invested more than $6 billion to grow our long term earnings power that includes capital expenditures of approximately $4.4 billion and acquisitions totaling about $1.9 billion.
Rather than fighting for survival the Nucor team is executing our strategic plan for driving profitable growth and delivering attractive returns to our shareholders.
Nucor's disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation also allows us to reward shareholders with attractive cash returns on their investment.
Over the 10 year period ending in 2015 Nucor has returned a total of approximately $6.8 billion of their capital to our shareholders through dividends and opportunistic share repurchases.
With the dividend increase announced in December and effective with next year's quarterly payment Nucor has increased its base dividend for 43 consecutive years every year since it first began paying dividends in 1973.
Reflecting our success in growing long term earnings power the base dividend has increased fivefold over the past 10 years.
In December we began repurchasing shares of our common stock under the $900 million program approved our Board in September.
Our repurchases totaled about 1.7 million shares at an average cost of just under $40 per share.
Nucor's financial position remains strong.
Our gross debt-to-capital ratio was 36% at the close of the fourth quarter.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $2 billion which compares with total debt outstanding of $4.4 billion.
Our next significant debt maturity is not until December 2017.
Nucor's strong liquidity position also includes our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility which remains undrawn the facility does not mature until August of 2018.
Nucor is the only North American headquartered steel producer to hold an investment grade credit rating.
Market conditions for our stainless segment remain extremely challenging as a result of global overcapacity and import levels that remain at extremely high levels; however we anticipate some improvement in the steel mill segment in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the fourth quarter 2015 due to a lower average cost of inventory to begin the first quarter a small decline in imports and more balanced inventor levels at service center customers.
The performance of our downstream steel product segment will be lower due to typical winter seasonality.
We expect downstream products for the full year of 2016 to achieve notably improved performance compared to 2015.
Performance in the raw material segment should increase slightly over the fourth quart level as Nucor Steel Louisiana resumed production earlier this week following its extended fourth quarter maintenance outage.
Margins are expected to improve modestly in our scrap recycling business.
We are confident that Nucor's significant competitive advantages and highly adaptable business model will allow our team to continue to execute our proven strategies for delivering profitable long term growth and attractive returns to Nucor shareholders.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
John? Thanks Jim.
I am proud of the results achieved by our teammates and one of the toughest steel markets in decades.
Because of their work Nucor is growing stronger and actually thriving compared to our peers.
First I will comment on the overall industry issues we face today.
It is not an exaggeration to say that the global steel industry is in a crisis.
The crisis is the direct result of foreign governments particularly China blatantly subsidizing their steel industries.
In further violation of international trade rules this glut of global steel production has led to the dumping of steel products into the U.S.
market.
Despite the highest level of domestic steel consumption since 2006 the American steel industry capacity utilization in 2015 was around 70% and pricing for most steel products essentially collapsed.
Nucor's culture has always been defined by our willingness to tackle challenges head on and focus our energy on what is within our control.
To that end Nucor continues to be proactive and aggressive in pursuing trade cases whenever and wherever it is appropriate.
When foreign producers and governments break mutually agreed upon trade laws there must be meaningful consequences.
Nucor has joined other U.S.
steel producers in filing trade cases for hot rolled coal roll and corrosion resistant flat-rolled products.
We are pleased that the International Trade Commission made preliminary determinations of injury in all three cases.
Regarding the preliminary duties announced by the commerce department we are satisfied with the duties applied to products from China in the corrosion resistant and coal rolled cases but we are extremely disappointed in the other determinations and believe that the facts to support higher duties; however we are confident that the government will be more aggressive in its final determinations after further analysis is done.
Another important trade issue in 2016 is China's bid to gain recognition as a market economy under its protocol of ascension to the world trade organization agreed to in 2001.
Over the past 15 years China has failed to implement the reforms necessary to become a market economy.
China remains a government run non-market economy today.
There for the U.S.
has no reason to change its treatment of China as a non-market economy.
Great challenges provide great opportunities for great companies that are ready size them.
At Nucor we are more than just ready we are doing it.
We are on the offensive and growing stronger.
Our multi-pronged growth strategy is simple and flexible.
That strategy is supported by Nucor's five drivers to profitable growth which highlight where we are focusing our energies to build long term earnings power and provide our shareholders with attractive returns on their valuable capital.
Here they are 1 strengthen our position as a low cost producer; 2 achieve market leadership positions in every product line in our portfolio; 3 move up the value chain by expanding our capabilities to produce higher quality more import resistant products; 4 expand our downstream channels to market to increase our steel mills base load volume especially in weak markets and 5 achieve commercial excellence to complement our traditional operational strength.
Our performance in 2015 provides numerous examples of how we are growing stronger in this downturn and positioning Nucor to deliver higher highs in profitability during the inevitable cyclical upturn.
Despite the challenges illegally traded imports and less than robust capacity utilization rates our bar mills delivered solid profitability in 2015.
The keys to their success are powerful and sustainable.
Market leadership positions strong channels to the market and an unrelenting focus to drive costs lower.
Our fabricated construction products group achieved very strong year-over-year profit growth in 2015 and actually approached the record profitability reached in 2007.
That is very impressive when you consider the fact that U.S.
non-residential construction activity for 2015 as measured by square footage represents less than 60% of 2007's peak activity.
In addition to their strong market leadership positions Nucor's fabricated construction products enhance the through the cycle profitability and flexibility of our steel making businesses.
Our structural steel business also delivered attractive earnings growth in 2015 while working against strong headwinds from high import levels and low mill capacity utilization.
Impressive results were delivered by all of our structural steel teams.
Our Nucor Yamato model mill our Berkeley County South Carolina mill and our piling distribution business skyline steel Nucor's ongoing success in the structure all steel business continues to be powered by our market leadership position strong channels to the market and new product introductions that continue to move us up the value chain.
Our Nucor structural mill is continuing to expand it value-added product portfolio.
In 2015 Nucor Yamato began shipping its wider sheet piling sections.
These new products are already enjoying strong marketplace success.
We see significant opportunities for profitable growth in this market which currently is largely supplied by imports.
Further during the second half of 2016 Nucor Yamato will begin commissioning its $75 million question and self-tempering projects.
This investment will position Nucor as the sole North American producer of high strength low alloyed beams.
Our Berkeley County South Carolina sheet mill achieved very solid fourth quarter and full year 2015 profitability in what can best be described as horrific flat-rolled market conditions.
The Berkeley team continues to capitalize on their investments in vacuum degassing and the wide light capabilities provided by caster and hot mill equipment upgrades.
New products from the wide light modernization are allowing us to gain new business in a wide range of end use markets including metal buildings railcars auto heaters automotive heavy equipment and motor lamination nation.
Of particular note Nucor's automotive business continues to grow with work awarded by a diversified and high quality portfolio of automotive OEM customers.
Highlighting Nucor's overall commitment to profitable growth in the automotive market and our strategic focus on commercial excellence we opened a Detroit sales office earlier this year.
Our shipment rate to the automotive market from our sheet and SBQ bar Mills increased by about 20% in 2015 versus 2014 to approximately 1.4 million tons.
We believe the time could not be better for a financially strong and technologically advanced steel supplier such as Nucor to make a more significant contribution to the automotive industry.
In November we acquired Dallas [ph] cold finished bar facilities located in Ohio and Georgia.
And the combined annual production capability of 75 000 tons this acquisition strengthens Nucor's market leadership position in this very attractive value-added business and important channel to the market.
I warmly welcome to the Nucor family all of our newest teammates in Orrville Ohio and Cartersville Georgia.
Our list of five drivers to profitable growth begins with the objective to strengthen our position as a low cost producer.
Nucor's DRI production capability with its excellent conversion cost structure has significantly strengthened our position as a low cost steel maker.
It gives us the flexibility to optimize Nucor's overall iron units mix and most importantly cost.
Consistent with our announcement earlier this month our DRI plant in Louisiana has resumed operations and is producing high quality DRI.
Recent changes in raw material pricing led to this decision.
These are challenging times in the steel business but for a company such as Nucor one that is in a unique position of strength these are also times of great opportunities.
Here is what I see throughout Nucor.
The right people working with their typical high energy level and sense of urgency to seize these opportunities for profitable growth ensuring that Nucor's best years are still ahead of us.
Thank you for your interest in Nucor.
We would now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We'll take our first question from Tony Rizzuto with Cowen &amp; Co.
John my first question I just wanted to know on the trade side what gives you the confidence the final decision will bite harder and be more broad based first of all? Well let me start by saying that we take a hard look at the data and as we view the data and as we have anxious to go back and present it to the commerce department we feel confident that we can prove a strong case and then came out in the preliminary.
So we're pretty confident -- remember that during the preliminary findings they see only some of the facts presented by frankly on the countries that we are looking to gain some duties from.
So they all see the whole picture.
We have an opportunity during this period to present our case and we're confident that when we get to present our case and get a more balanced view in front of them they will come out with a stronger determination in the final determination.
In this environment provided that they do see a little bit more in the way of the industry and the final determination is little bit stronger.
We still have obviously certain end markets which some call in recession and U.S.
dollars still fairly strong raw materials at depressed levels.
Can you envision hot rolled moving sustainably above $450 per ton? It's very difficult to project where pricing is known to go and let me ask maybe by addressing your earlier point that we do recognize that Nucor that despite our best efforts and effective trade cases to effective trade action we recognize that because of the dollar there's always going to be some challenges on the import front which is why when you look at our strategy and how we have developed our products to move up the value chain we have got a strategy that we use to help insulate us and much as possible from the imports.
Higher value products that are harder to import.
We continue to develop a stronger channel to the market that provides a nice barrier for us gives us some protection from the imports.
So we're taking this from a two front battle one we are continuing to fight the imports the illegal unfairly traded imports let me be real clear about that we do not have a problem with imports.
We have a problem with illegal unfairly traded imports.
So we'll continue that battle and we'll continue with our strategy of moving up the value chain gaining more market leadership position in the products in which we participate and to continue to develop our channel to the market.
And just talking a little bit further about that I was intrigued by your comments about market opportunities you and I wonder if you could talk a bit further about the opportunities you see to further penetrate the automotive and maybe HVAC.
Is it possible to quantify the opportunities in terms of volume and margin potential that you'll see? Sounds like a lot of things you're doing-- Let me address that from the automotive front because that's probably where we feel we have the greatest opportunity.
As you know that we've increased sales in automotive on a delivery bases by about 20% over last year.
Today we're at about a 1.4 million ton a year market penetration.
We fully expect to be able to get up to 2 million tons over the next couple of years and that's going to be in both sheet products and our SBQ.
As we continue in sheet and we move up the value chance into the advanced high strength steals particularly when you think about what we've done on our Berkeley facility we provide light project that's given us the ability to continue to move even higher and the strength sheet steel products while maintaining the light gauge they need in the automotive applications.
So we feel very good about our sheet penetration into automotive and I'll also point out that on our SBQ we continue to develop more and more products and bear in mind Tony that as our team does a great job selling today automotive market and our products present great opportunities for the automotive customers and let's be honest the automotive industry is taking a look at the entire steel industry today and they look at Nucor and our balance sheet and they see a long term sustainable supplier.
When you think about how they order steel they order steel today it takes a long time to get qualified and years to go through that entire process and then the steel they're ordering today could show up on a platform that's not even going to roll-out for two to three years from today so they want to make absolutely certain that after they've gone through the entire qualification period that when they roll that product out that new platform out in two to three years they want to make certain that their steel supplier is going to be there and able to supply the steel that they need to keep their factories running.
I wonder if you could comment I've been hearing about a competitor perhaps losing some people on the R&amp;D side you know the heavy auto area in Michigan since you opened up that office out there I'm wondering if you might have been able to attract a few of those folks over to your shop? Let me just answer the question this way.
The most qualified people out there are looking for companies that work for companies that they know are going to be around for the long term and all I'll say is when you look at the balance sheet and when these potential candidates take a look at our company one of the things they bring up towards all the time is that look we want to get with a company we know is going to be there for the long term and I want to finish my career with a company.
Not only do they are impressed with our balance sheet but once they come down and spend some time with us they like our culture like working for the concept of working for the Nucor family so yes we had great potential to attract the best people out there and having opened this office in Detroit.
I'm telling you what that was a great move and I guess it was two months ago we have a grand opening I'll tell you Tony we had over 200 customers come by and talk to us and the one thing that we heard consistently through that two or three hour period was a major concern about the suitability of some of our competitors in this industry and they are anxious to do more business with Nucor as a result of that.
We'll move on and give someone else a chance to ask questions thank you Tony.
We'll take our next question from Matt Murphy with UBS.
Maybe just picking up from there in terms of R&amp;D and auto can you summarize what some of the main steps the mini mill industry have to do to make more in-roads on auto? What is sort of the key quality steps you've got to make and how quickly can you make them to make more meaningful in-roads.
Well probably I'm going to speak just to Nucor because I can't speak for other competitors probably biggest issue is getting through the qualification period.
It's an issue of timing.
When you talk about what products do we need to develop to be able to get penetration into it I would tell you that today we're producing just about all of the products we need to get our full penetration into automotive.
On making advanced high strength steals we have great quality steel going to the automotive industry so where we need to be in terms of products today.
Now having said that what's good today is not good enough tomorrow so we need to continue to work on developing even more sophisticated grades that have higher strength while still maintaining flexibility or improved flexibility for the designs that are coming out in the future so there's always more to do but I want to be clear about this point.
Today at least new cars [ph] in mini mill we can produce virtually every type of steel that's needed in automotive.
One of the questions I'm always asked is about exposed automotive quality and I answered this question several times but I'll say it one more time.
Today we have the ability to produce exposed automotive that is actually out there on cars and went through a qualification period.
So we're very comfortable with the products that we can supply and the quality that we can supply.
Now as I mentioned earlier there's a very long qualification period and after the qualification period you have to wait for it to be introduced and your steel is being specified on so there's a period of time it's going to take to grow to this 2 million or better tons a year level with automotive but it's strictly a question of working our way through that time period now.
We'll take our next question from Chris Olin with Rosenblatt Securities.
Just wanted to talk a little bit about the rebar market and I know you mentioned December shipments were running better than you guys expected.
I was just curious if you saw any order strength from the implementation of the new highway bill.
Are you seeing public spending dollars starting to flow into your business? It's really too early to see much of an impact on the Highway Bill.
Although we are really pleased the government after what's it been more than a decade of having short periods of time it's great to see them come out with a five year plan.
Frankly we believe they need to go even further and have a longer term plan and the infrastructure of our country it is desperately needed and to answer your question directly we haven't seen much of an impact right now.
We expect probably in 2016 we begin to see some effect and we believe that we'll see a more significant impact starting in 2017.
Just as a quick follow-up have you ever tried to calculate the potential market impact from the spending dollars like any thoughts on how much volume could be generated for the industry just from roads and bridge projects coming up? I don't know that we've ever tried to figure out an exact number but I'll tell you when you look at the product prep we have to offer the type of products we have to offer not only you mentioned rebar but think about the plate applications that go into infrastructure.
So we've got bar products that go in there weve got plate products that go in there and by the way don't forget a lot of this work is going into bridges and we've got great piling that we can offer to and we offer piling products that only we produce domestically and as I always like to say when you're going to build a bridge we can supply every type of steel you need in that bridge and when all said and done we'll sell you the nuts and bolts to put it together from our fastener [ph] division.
So when I look across the spectrum of companies in our industry Nucor I believe is positioned better than most to take advantage and gain the most out of this Highway Bill as it comes into fruition and the dollars begin to flow.
We'll take our next question from Chris Terry from Deutsche Bank.
Just after a little bit more detail in the CapEx outlook for 2016 I see you mentioned a number of 500 million and talked about 75 for Yamato.
Just wondering how else or if you can give a breakdown of how the CapEx layout looks for the year? I'm sorry I missed the second half of the question.
The question is we mentioned the 75 million in QST and we talk about a total budget of about 500 million.
He's looking for a little bit more color on how the rest will be distributed.
A couple of things we always have our maintenance CapEx which accounts for somewhere around 300 million to 350 million typically is that a good number? That's right and there aren't as many large organic projects right now in the pipeline separate of the project at Nucor Yamato.
But I'd mention one other and that's the heat treating project.
We're adding heat treating capability at our Memphis facility and an earlier question was about automotive that will also help us move further into the automotive as we can heat treat our own product coming out of Memphis.
Although we've already spent most of that money because it was more installing than spending fresh capital.
But that's another project that we're doing.
So those are the two that we can mention as John said most of the large ones and we're kind of happy about it most of our large ones were past the phase where we're spending the money we're well into the startup and frankly past the startup and were beginning to see some of the returns from these projects that we've invested in heavily and we mentioned several types the wide light project we mentioned piling project.
I'll mention the DRI project so it's not to be past point where we will have spent on the existing projects.
Now having said that I want to be very clear that I can't give you any specifics as to what we're doing but there will be we believe that there's many opportunities both organically and through M&amp;A activity to continue to grow our business and we're anxious to do that.
Just because we're planning on a $500 million budget that doesn't mean that that's what it will be at the end of 2016.
Is there anything else you wanted to say on the acquisition side or the competitive advantage you've obviously talked quite a bit about the order space but specifically what sort of industries you're looking at there or what opportunities you actually see? Well I'll tell you what I'd love to talk about that but I don't want to go to prison but there's really nothing I can say about it other than I'll make this a general comment and it's going to go back to our five points of profitable growth so if you look at those areas we talked about there are things in which we can continue to improve our market leadership position in the markets in which we compete so there will be things that strengthen our channel for the market that will be things that continue to move us up the value chain our products up the value chain making them more import resistant and I don't want to leave out one of the most important ones.
That is we will continue to invest in our operations in ways that will continue to lower our cost of operation because at the end of the day we're at a commodity business and we're in a global commodity business and the way to succeed in a commodity business in a Global Market place is to be the low cost producer so we will continue to invest below our cost of production which obviously was one of the big reasons we invested our $750 $780 million in our DRI facility so that's more of a general answer to your question but really all I can give you.
We'll take our next question from Timna Tanners with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I wanted to ask about your costs and about uses of cash.
So just for starters can you provide a little bit more clarity on your SG&amp;A run rate since it dropped off sharply fourth quarter versus your run rate first three quarters of the year with 125ish and then it went to 84 million and similarly getting a lot of concerns over the LIFO swing potential into the first quarter.
Can you provide more context for how to think about that? First on the SG&amp;A we are a pay for performance company.
We have significant amount of our compensation across the company including profit-sharing for all employees that's affected by our profitability.
So the impairment charges did result in a reduction of our obligations to incentive compensation.
So that's the first point and that's why the second half run rate is different than the first half.
The second point you asked about was remind me Timna.
Yes concerns over the LIFO swing.
So on LIFO it's based on where we have a view about where the long term raw material prices are going so it's hard for us to predict what scrap it's going to do over 2016 so we begin every year with kind of a conservative view that scrap is going to go up some and we book some expense in the first quarter and that's what we're being more transparent about in our guidance regarding the first quarter but clearly without knowing what the final outcome is going to be we will have some LIFO expense it's non-cash but we will have the expense in the first quarter to position ourselves to move either way based on what really happens to scrap prices as the year unfolds.
Okay and then my other question was regarding uses of cash and I know you've already highlighted your five areas of focus and talked about what M&amp;A might look like but if you could comment specifically on the buyback so we couldn't find evidence of much buyback since 2008 so does this mean this is a new focus for the company that means you're not finding better M&amp;A alternatives and therefore finding your shares as a better use of cash or can you talk to us a little bit about your thinking there? I'll be happy to address that.
We always have three approaches to our capital allocation and let me make sure that I highlight the first one and the first one is to invest in profitable growth of our company.
That is always our first focus and I want to be clear Timna.
We believe strongly that there are many opportunities to continue to invest in the profitable sustainable growth of our company both internally organic and externally through M&amp;A activity.
So that's the first objective that will always be the objective.
Second objective in capital allocation is to make sure we return our shareholders valuable capital to them at an appropriate way.
We look at dividend as being a very appropriate way to do that.
We think it's a good dividend well balanced dividend look to maintain a prudent payout ratio between supplemental and our base and we look forward to the days like we had in 2005 and 2006 when we have such good cash flow coming in that we can increase the supplemental dividend and return more of the capital to our shareholders so that's our second objective.
And our third objective as you mentioned when we can't beat either of the two first ones is to look at stock as a potential buyback and so those are the three areas we look at and I'll point out that there's a lot of questions about the cash and our cash position today and when you look at 2015 we generated a lot of cash in 2015 but I think it's the second highest that we've had since what about 2005? Highest since 2008 and we have a lot of cash on hand but let me be clear again we feel we have a lot of opportunities to spend it wisely in a disciplined manner on a flexible disciplined manner to grow our company.
If we don't see opportunities out there that return the kind of capital return on invested capital that we're looking for then we'll do the prudent thing and return it to our shareholders or buy stock.
Right now when we look the all three of those we saw it during the past month stock was a good opportunity and we bought some stock.
It is definitely not a major change in our position or direction or anything like that.
I want to be really clear about that.
We'll take our next question from Phil Gibbs with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I had a question on your sheet mix and how much shaft shipments last year went to the hot roll market versus downstream market any way you could help us think about that? When you look at our mix about 55%-60% goes T hot and the rest is pretty well split evenly between cold rolled and galvanized but basically I would say an easy way to remember the numbers which is what I need I'd use 60% hot band 20% cold rolled and 20% galvanized and that's pretty close.
And I was interested the comments on notable 2016 improvement in the fabrication piece of the business and given the fact that at least we were thinking there were some pricing resets occurring on maybe some rebar fab and potentially cold finished bar product how are you thinking about the meaningful improvement is it volume related pricing related how do we get there? Well our improved profitability in 15 and expected in 16 is a result of a couple of things.
Strong operational performance by our teams lead the way in my view with lower cost and we expect those to continue in 2016.
We also continue to see improving demand for our products and services in our downstream businesses and we continue to lead the market in technology such as 3D modeling and again continue to add value to our products.
I hope everyone understood the comment about the bin and that allows us to do and a sophisticated computer system we use that helps us design our building and what it allows us to do is to tackle and Bill more complex structures which are higher margin structures and also impacts our cost so it has two very positive effects for us.
So ready to hit them all on the head.
I think that I want to just make a shout out to my team and say great job guys I'm really proud of the fact that if you look at all three of our downstream businesses and we had a very good year we expect another one in 2016 and maybe a comment about our shipments in 2015 how they compare to the previous year given the fact that when you look at McGraw Hill the demand for non-residential construction was down 5-6%.
The non-residential market was down in '15 about 5%-6% in new construction starts and backlogs and all of our key downstream segments are up and our shipments in 2015 were basically the same.
Up a little bit than 2014.
So the team did a great job even though demand was dropping we were able to maintain our shipments and we were able to improve our profitability.
That's a formula for long term success right there.
So great job team thank you.
And then just the last one I had.
You said the recent changes in raw material price lead to getting the DRI back on track.
Just clarifying what you meant on that given that iron ore prices and pig iron prices have been relatively stable over the time frame so looking for more color and it's a again I've been getting a lot from investors.
Thank you.
Well the keyword you use is relatively stable and when we look at it and we see an increase of 20-$30 a ton on scrap and a $10 increase in pig iron that might be relatively stable but when you buy 15 million tons of scrap and million 5 tons of pig iron that's a big change and we felt as we talked with our DJ Joseph team whose out there all the time working in the marketplace we felt we could attribute at least half of that to the fact we were taking a DRI plan off line and since we when we finished the maintenance outage at the end of last month we were at a point where we had to make a decision as to when you're back on or not and we were basically breakeven on a marginal contribution basis and so we were kind of up in the air as to what to do.
We thought it was a good opportunity to leave it all and we've always believed that bringing it online had a significant impact for us on our cost of scrap and pig iron so we said here is an opportunity to take a look and see in fact what happens so we left it all we saw a bump go up and it's about 25-$30 a ton across the spectrum on scrap and $10 on pig iron so again that's a huge impact for us so we bought it back online because of that and I came away from the whole thing and the team came away from the whole thing more convinced than ever that although you might not see immediate profitability in the DRI plant itself when you look at the overall impact to our company on iron units which represents 60% of our costs the overall impact to our company is significantly better wanting that DRI plant than not wanting the DRI plant even if it is not profitable in its own right.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Lane with Morningstar.
First just from a housekeeping perspective my apologies if I missed it I heard the comment about 300 to 350 million of maintenance CapEx but what's your full year CapEx guidance figure and then also for DNA? The depreciation amortization is about $700 million and the CapEx is about $500 million based on the things we have planned today.
And wanted to ask about scrap flows how are you seeing scrap flows currently in the recycling market and what do we immediate to see a significant improvement in scrap flows for your recycling operations to restore positive margins? Scrap flows over the last 60-90 days have been basically flat but on a year-over-year basis they are still down running down probably 25-30%.
The second part of your question I think let me take a shot at looking at it this way.
Our DJJ business model is a very diverse business model and we some types get caught up in thinking that it's only a recycling business with scrap yards but we have five or six different business elements in our DJJ business and the recycling group alone as a part of that only represents about 15% of the DJJ revenue flow so the DJJ business model performance financial performance does not rely on the recycling group.
For the recycling group to see improvements really all you need it's not as much flow based as much as you need stability the pricing.
In other words for most of 2015 we are seeing significant drops in the market price for scrap and that's kind of like catching a falling knife.
You can never really catch up with it.
Once price is stabilized or shows any sign of increase then that is what drives margins and profitability at the recycling group more than just volumes.
We'll take our next question from Brian Yu with Citigroup.
First question is this touches on your auto comments a little bit earlier a bit broader but with the various blast furnace Operators out there that the contract prices reset lower but they aren't giving any indications of whether or not they've lost business in that process and I know you've mentioned your auto shipments are going to improve.
If we just look at the broader contract picture and the billions you have done business within the pastor new ones you've got were you able to win in new customers going into 2016 and is it possible to give us an order of magnitude like how much more does that base load your order book for this year? Well I can only talk in terms of what I've already said in terms of the amount of tons we are selling into it so our order entry rate will result in about 1.4 million tons we sold in 2015 and we think it will be up a little bit in 2016 in the order of 1.5 or 1.6 but we do think over the next two to three years based upon the interest we have people that are working with us on qualifying our products we feel very comfortable in saying that we'll be up in the 1.9 or 2 million-ton a year range within the next couple of years.
I was thinking more broadly than just auto and appliance producers and machinery company I think John in that case the 2 million-ton number is right for next year versus in two or three years the broader market.
If you take the entire market I'd say we're looking at about 2 million tons of contract business next year.
And then what is that versus what you did in 2015? It was a little bit less not significantly less maybe improvement of about 10%.
And second question I've got is this goes back to the fabrication business and you guys have noted profitability is up shipments were sideways and pricing is down a little bit.
One thing and not taking anything away from your team there but steel prices did come down a lot so I'm thinking that maybe the drop in steel prices did improve margin? We were remiss in not mentioning that and absolutely correct and Frank little I apologize because one of the notes I have said steel pricing and we forgot to mention it but I have to tell you that we looked at this carefully taking that into account and we're very comfortable saying that still our team did the great job on lowering the cost exclusive of our steel costs and we're confident that the other things we mentioned played a large role in the picture the profitability picture.
John if might add and adding value to the construction projects we work on.
And through our channel to market and with our customers so our team has done well in that area but certainly to reinforce reduced steel prices certainly helped in 2015.
Okay the other part of my question was just that you are guiding for increased profit ability in 16 it sounds like you're getting better prices above your input cost in 16 versus 15 and then on the volume side are you looking for pick up in volumes out of the downstream business in 16? Well the only thing I can tell you on that is we look at our order entry rate and we look at our backlogs okay? And we feel the backlogs are very strong order entry rate is strong our best estimate today is we'll see an improvement of 5-6% in our businesses in 2016 versus 2015.
And if you'll look at the pundits the McGraw Hill and so forth they are saying 6-7% improvement we think across the industry that might be a little bit aggressive but we think in our business we will see 5-6%.
We'll take our next question from Garrett Nelson with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
There's been some data suggesting there's been a bounce in domestic steel capacity utilization rates over the past month or so.
Is that consistent with what you're seeing across the industry and should we expect to see a rebound in Nucor's volumes with utilization appearing to be moving up and with imports in inventories having come down a bit? You kind of answered the question for me.
Imports are coming down a little bit in addition to imports coming down the service center inventories are down a little bit so bottom line is yes we do see our utilization rates increasing as we go into the first quarter and also remember that we are moving into a period where we come out of fourth quarter is usually the weakest quarter in terms of the steel business so we're kind of coming out of that quarter first quarter second quarter we see typically see utilization rates and we think we'll continue to see that.
You mention the slowdown in imports.
You mention the reduction of the inventory in our service centers but I'd also mention to you there has been quite a few shutdowns from some of our competitors that we believe we'll see some improved utilization as a result of that also.
And also we're seeing a small bounce in pricing and when you see a bounce in pricing typically that gets things going again.
Customers when pricing is going down kind of waiting until they hit the bottom and we've increased pricing in several products and those price increases have been holding so we feel pretty confident we've stopped the slide and we're moving back up.
Customers see that also and order entry rates go up.
In the past you've said Nucor's goals is to control 6-7 million tons in scrap substitutes.
Is that still your goal or has your thinking changed at all-in light of the drop in scrap prices we've seen over the last several quarters? Frankly our thinking has not changed at all.
We still see that as a key long term strategic goal.
I've said this several times at Nucor all of our strategies are pointed towards long term sustainable profitable growth and at the end of the day we still believe very very strongly that I'm not sure whether it's going to be five years seven years or ten years but we believe that as a result of the manufacturing decreasing in the United States and several other things we will be glad we have that DRI plant.
Just remember one other thing.
We're very heavy into pig iron and that's very important to us and right now we get about 80% of our pig iron out of Russia.
The rest of it is coming out of Brazil.
Those are not the most stable places in the world geopolitically.
HBI which is another potential product we could use as a scrap substitute comes out of Venezuela and that's also not a very stable geopolitical area so when you look at all of these facts and you look at our goal of being flexible long term having flexibility and balance across our portfolio and a cyclical business whether scrap pricing is cyclical iron ore is cyclical pig iron is cyclical steel pricing is cyclical when you look at that I believe the key to long term stable returns to our investors the best way to accomplish that is to have a nice balanced portfolio and flexible portfolio that allows us to move things around as we need to optimize the lowest cost product inputs and optimize our margins coming out of our Mills.
So long winded answer to your question but no our strategy hasn't changed.
We believe it's the right strategy and we'll continue with it.
We'll take our next question from Aldo Mazzaferro with Macquarie.
I noticed how sharply your scrap costs fell in the Fourth quarter and I note also though that it's been lagging the index on the industry if you take some of the published numbers and I'm wondering your comment on the first quarter low scrap would help you in first quarter do you think there's a chance you'll see even if the index is say flat to slightly up in the First quarter versus the fourth the actual cost of your scrap that you consume probably goes down a little bit? Let me start that.
You're right there is a lag between the index and our performance because we always have some scrap inventory we own at our steel mills so the indexes don't reflect what we're consuming they reflect what we're buying so you're right the bottoming of the scrap prices that happen during the Fourth quarter are going to benefit from some of that to start the First quarter.
Jim one other follow-up the large LIFO yesterday the you took in the Fourth quarter does that help or would that lower the average cost of scrap in the first or would that actually keep it higher? It does not go through the scrap line so it doesn't affect the scrap costs we published at all.
It's in the corporate line we show the segments in fact.
There might be one thing I'd want to add to your comments and that is you have to lock at that by segment right? Because when you look at our bar Mills we have a lot less scrap on the ground.
In fact some of our bar Mills just because they are geographically challenged we don't have a lot of room some of them happen as little as two to three weeks of scrap on the ground and then you take a look at our sheet mills and not only do they necessarily have to have more on the ground but it's a different mix and the mix they use will depend upon the mix of products they are producing so it's a very complicated process that you go through but the impact that you mentioned Jim will occur more on a larger plate and sheet mills just to give you a little more color.
One more question separately is there any way you could comment on your lead time in the sheet products and the long products? We can do that.
I know hot band is the shortest lead time we're probably only out a couple weeks three or four weeks in hot band but when you look at coal rolled and galvanized we are probably held to March towards the end of March for our cold rolled and galvanized.
We'll take our next question from David Lipschitz with CLSA.
So you might have answered this a couple questions ago but a couple of your competitors have taken impairment charges on their facilities I was wondering where do you guys stand with DJ Joseph? Well we aren't going to answer that question directly.
What we will say is that we do it we do our impairment testing every year and we always look at all of our operations and we're comfortable with where we are with that and I'm going to refer back to what Joe said earlier about the business model at DJ Joseph being different.
We aren't going to comment on what our competitors have done in terms of breakdowns but when we look at our business model as Joe mentioned it's much more than recycling and in fact the vast majority is out of recycling and when we look at our brokerage we look at how they are performing we're very comfortable that we are well within the range of having a level of impairment.
And Dave if I can add John's absolutely correct and when you look at that mix within what we call the DJJ business the recycling components can be a little bit cyclical but the non-recycling components provides a very very stable and very very healthy earnings and cash flow stream so it's that diversity adds a lot of strength to the value of the DJJ model.
With no further questions I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Ferriola for any additional or closing remarks.
Let me conclude by saying thank you to all of our customers.
We really appreciate the opportunity to earn your business every day and if we are blessed with your business we won't let you down.
And thank you to our shareholders.
We appreciate your ongoing confidence and support.
It means a lot to us.
And to my teammates I want to say thank you for creating customer value generating attractive returns for our shareholders and building a sustainability a sustainable future for all of us and most importantly thank you for doing it safely.
Thanks for your interest in Nucor.
Have a great day.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.