Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Just a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations home page under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I would now turn the conference call over to Ms.
Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Great.
Thank you.
Welcome everyone to Newell Rubbermaid's first quarter conference call.
I'm Nancy O'Donnell.
And with me today are Mark Ketchum our President and CEO; and our Chief Financial Officer Juan Figuereo.
During the call today we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Management believes providing insights on these measures enables investors to better understand and analyze our ongoing results of operation.
Reconciliation with the comparable GAAP numbers can be found in our earnings release and on the Investor Relations area of our website as well as in our filings with the SEC.
Also please recognize that this conference call includes forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations and plans.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any such statements made today.
If you review our most recent 10-K filing and our other SEC filings you will find a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations in such forward-looking statements.
We thank you for that.
And at this point I'll turn it over to Mark Ketchum.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Our Q1 results represent another solid quarter with the highlights being 20% year-over-year EPS growth and strong gross margin expansion.
Our top line results a core sales decline of 1.7% was disappointing.
But that number is not representative of our business trends and has not given us any reason to change our full year guidance of 4% to 5% sales growth.
You will recall from our last earnings call some timing events that affect our Q1 comparisons.
Juan will remind you of the details later.
After adjusting for these our Q1 core sales growth would've been plus 1.5% that's still slightly below our internal expectations but it represents a mixture of very good top line performance across most of our portfolio especially in our developing regions netted against a small number of GBUs in which we had a lower start to the year.
I'll provide more detail in a moment.
As I said before full year results provide the best gauge of our ongoing progress and we remain confident in our ability to deliver on the financial targets we laid out for you earlier this year.
4% to 5% core sales growth 50 to 75 basis points of gross margin expansion and 10% to 12% normalized EPS growth for the full year.
The specific reasons for our confidence should become clearer during our presentation.
We are also announcing today that we plan to increase our dividend by 60% from $0.05 to $0.08 per quarter.
This action reflects our improved capital structure continued optimism with respect to our growth prospects and healthy ability to generate strong cash flows; all in all a relatively good start to 2011.
Now let's turn to some details.
Sales performance across most of the portfolio is positive with the majority of our 13 business units posting year-over-year core sales growth.
However a couple of our businesses are off to what looks like a slow start and I want to start this morning by explaining why these businesses have lagged the pack and why we are not alarmed.
There will be 2 key takeaways that I would like you to remember.
First we are confident we will return to revenue growth as the year progresses in these slow-start GBUs.
Second the strength of the other business units combined with this rebound is the basis for maintaining full year guidance of 4% to 5% sales growth.
In fact this demonstrates the value of our diverse portfolio.
The most challenging of our businesses is Baby &amp; Parenting.
The trends that we have referenced in the past several quarters declining North American birthrates and financially strapped consumers trading down to lower price points have turned out to be more persistent and more problematic than previously thought.
In response we're executing the more comprehensive set of plans to counteract the trend going forward.
We believe these aggressive plans will deliver a return to core sales growth in the back half of the year.
First we're working with our retail partners to introduce a line of products geared towards more value-conscious consumers.
This line of 5 key items will be sub-branded Century by Graco and will be available in stores starting in late Q2 of this year.
Second we continue to respond to real unmet consumer needs like ease of operation and ease-of-use age-appropriate customization and side impact safety.
We are rolling out the Graco signature series in Q2 which includes the Graco Smart Seat the newest addition to our successful Grow With Me platform.
The Smart Seat is designed to accommodate from newborns all the way up to children weighing 100 pounds.
Smart Seat includes a versatile new stay-in-the-car base.
The parents only have to install the base one time even as the seating configurations change.
The signature series also includes the Graco Love Buggy Stroller [ph] which features a parent-friendly design that allows multiple seating variations to enhance the parent-child connection.
Third we have customer support for a significant increase in promotional activity in the back half of the year which should positively impact sales.
Importantly the promotional activity is tied into our new product launch calendar.
Fourth we have strengthened product and promotional plans in all of our international regions in support of Teutonia in EMEA Aprica in Japan and the Graco launch in Brazil.
And lastly we are aggressively going after competitors that we believe are infringing on our patents.
This has been especially egregious to some of the private label suppliers who target the trade down on consumer.
We have recently filed lawsuits against these competitors and we'll continue to fight vigorously to protect our intellectual property rights although success through the courts seldom comes quickly.
Our Rubbermaid Consumer business also got off to a slow start due to a year-over-year reduction in promotional activities and copied against last year's fourth quarter pre-buys.
This business is also going through their own portfolio transformation learning to grow in new categories and new geographies.
We have exited or downsized our presence in the commoditized segments of refuse containers and basic store containers and are now focused on re-handling cleaning garage and closet organization and some specialized storage solutions for our future growth.
During the balance of the year you will see a combination of distribution gains and innovative new product launches that we expect will reverse the Q1 trend and deliver good growth on a full year basis.
For example the Reveal microfiber mop has won 20 points of additional ACV [ph] retail distribution.
And our Rubbermaid closet organization systems are also gaining extra placement.
The latest addition to our successful Easy Find Lids food storage platform is Easy Find Lids glass which is currently being sold under retail.
The new glass line combines our popular nesting stacking and no-spill lid system with the reheating and serving advantages of glass.
We are supporting this launch with an integrated marketing campaign that includes TV print and online media.
Later in the year we will introduce a line of unique modularized storage concepts which have tested very well with consumers.
And finally some of our customers who had less in their promotional support will be returning to more promotional activity coincident with our product innovation.
All of these initiatives are expected to contribute meaningfully to Rubbermaid Consumer's top line performance in Q2 and beyond.
I'd also like to update you on our Commercial Products GBU which continues to work through the operating issues we talked about last quarter.
Q1 sales indices in Rubbermaid Commercial were depressed by the strong customer pre-buying the first quarter of 2010.
In addition we've been addressing some uneven execution in manufacturing customer service and innovation launch.
We've put a new management team in place in the second half of 2010 including the business unit president and several senior functional heads and are already seeing improving trends and customer service and productivity.
Going forward prioritizing the investments behind our most significant product launches will be the other key to resuming historically strong growth.
For instance the new Rubbermaid commercial clean water system launches in Q2.
This revolutionary mopping system features an integrated patented water filter for generating clean water from dirty mopping water.
We have won new listings at several key customers which will positively impact sales going forward.
And our Rubbermaid Medical business which is part of our Commercial Products GBU continues to generate some very strong double-digit growth.
This business will receive preferential investment behind its industry-leading medical carts and workstations designed for healthcare facilities.
Net we are confident these efforts will put us in a position to report better news for each of these GBUs as we progress throughout the year.
Now let's turn to the balance of our business which collectively grew 4.6%.
Here are some highlights.
Latin America and APAC grew double digits behind the strength in our established Office Products and Tools &amp; Hardware businesses plus the added emphasis we're putting on expansion in developing markets including Brazil and China.
Fourth quarter 2010 launch of Baby &amp; Parenting and Rubbermaid Consumer into Brazil is progressing with current activities focused on expanding availability and building brand awareness.
Later this year we will introduce the Paper Mate and Sharpie product lines into Brazil building off successful programs elsewhere in the region.
China growth is led by Fine Writing which has seen a strong return from investments and expanded an upgraded retail presence and by Industrial Products &amp; Services where our investment in additional technical reps is getting us more factory trials and more conversions from Lenox bandsaws.
The Decor GBU had a great quarter with double-digit sales growth.
Our Levolor brand is capturing additional shelf space in market share thanks to the continued rollout of Size-In-Store machines.
This advanced technology makes it easy for consumers to purchase custom-sized blinds and shades right in the store.
And our total custom business also continues to do well behind innovative products like the Accordia energy-saving shades.
Beauty &amp; Style contributed very strong growth fueled by the strength of innovative new products like the Goody Simple Styles hair accessories.
We are supporting the brand through continued strategic investment.
Look for new Simple Styles television ads to air in North America and the U.K.
this summer.
Our technology GBU saw a strong year-over-year growth driven by DYMO Mimio interactive teaching technologies DYMO indicia Internet postage and DYMO Industrial labeling.
In our Mimio business we completed a bolt-on acquisition during the quarter a company called Headsprout.
Headsprout is an innovative provider of instructional software targeted at early education with a particular  focus on individualized student learning.
While diluted by about $0.03 in the first year the acquisition of Headsprout is an exciting step forward in building out Mimeo's educational content offering enhancing and further accelerating the aggressive growth plans we have for this interactive teaching business.
We estimate Headsprout will generate over $150 million in cumulative sales over the first 5 years with well above average gross margins.
Paper Mate grew nicely behind increased market share in the value-added writing segment validating the consumer desire for a smoother more comfortable writing experience.
Paper Mate brand has invested in globally common packaging product lines and supply chain and is now poised to leverage these for growth behind product innovation and geographic expansion.
And finally we had a strong quarter in industrial products and construction tools and accessories.
Lenox and IRWIN both generated share-enhancing growth on the strength of international markets new products and effective marketing and promotions.
IRWIN's GrooveLock Pliers continued to show strong momentum supported by advertising to bring its innovative new features to the attention of its target audience.
In Q2 Lenox is launching its innovative new hole saw which features a unique slotted design for easy plug removal.
Those of you who came to Atlanta for our Analyst Day last year may remember seeing the demo of this new hole saw illustrating how clearly superior our product is versus the competition.
We are excited about this launch and expect this platform together with our continued band saw success to drive strong Lenox growth all year.
With that let me comment on our outlook for the year.
Since our last update at the end of January input costs have continued to rise.
While this presents a challenge we have already taken steps to address it including pricing actions that have already taken effect or will take effect by mid-July.
At the same time we will continue to look to improve product mix productivity and cost abatement actions to offset excess inflationary pressures as we have done successfully in the past.
This is the biggest challenge in front of us.
However I feel comfortable that the new actions we are taking together with the plans and business momentum already in place will allow us to deliver our financial commitments.
Before I turn the call over to Juan I'd like to brief you on a couple of other subjects.
The first subject is the status of our operations in Japan.
The toll on human life and property from the earthquake and tsunami is almost unimaginable.
Yet we were very fortunate.
Newell Rubbermaid experienced no loss of life or property.
However we have seen a slowdown in consumption in our 2 largest Japanese categories Baby Care and Fine Writing which we estimate will impact the top line by $10 million to $15 million.
Perhaps the biggest impact will be on our supply chain as a couple of our key office product suppliers located in northern Japan are plagued by rolling blackouts which severely curtailed their output.
But we are making do with the existing inventory plus expedited shipments and alternate suppliers that we are bringing online.
This story is still unfolding.
The second brief is on our European Transformation Plan which is progressing nicely.
We are well on our way to a goal of achieving a sustainable 10% or greater operating margin in Europe.
We have opened our new Geneva headquarters with relocation to that site doing well.
And plans for the SAP and EPC conversion next spring are on track.
So to sum up there are a lot of good things going on across our business and across our GBUs.
Our innovations are resonating with our target consumers and we are successfully commercializing new and existing products across the globe.
The slow start experienced in a couple of our GBUs will be short-lived.
First quarter EPS was 20% above prior year and gross margin was solid.
We have good momentum as we start Q2 driven by a diverse portfolio.
I remain confident in our ability to meet our full 2011 year financial objectives.
This confidence is also evident in our decision to increase our quarterly dividend by 60% to $0.08 to take effect when our next regular dividend is declared.
For the past 2 years we have made a significant improvement to our balance sheet and credit metrics and we continue to generate strong cash flow.
With the transformation of our business model portfolio and supply chain essentially complete we are well positioned to generate the type of sustainable top line and bottom line growth that can support an increased payout.
We understand the importance of dividend income to our shareholders and we aim to increase our dividend over time to a level that is comparable with our peers on a payout ratio and yield basis.
I'll now turn the call over to Juan to walk you through the financials in more detail and I'll return for some wrap-up comments before taking your questions.
Juan? Thank you Mark.
I'll start with a review of the income statement on a normalized basis.
Net sales for the quarter were $1.3 billion a 0.3% decline versus the prior year.
Excluding a positive 1.4% impact from foreign currency translation our core sales declined 1.7%.
As Mark just pointed out this performance is not indicative of our full year trend as we expect most of our sales growth this year will come in the second half on the basis of a very robust commercial calendar.
Also there are a couple of items impacting Q1 comparisons that need to be taken into account.
First in Q1 2010 there was a customer pre-buying in anticipation of the April SAP go live in our Rubbermaid Consumer and Commercial Products businesses.
And in Q4 2010 we had some customer order acceleration to qualify for annual volume rebates.
Together these 2 events accounted for approximately $40 million in timing shift.
Adjusting for them our core sales growth would have been approximately 1.5% in the quarter.
In North America net sales fell 3.4% a 3.9% core sales decline mainly due to underperformance in our Baby &amp; Parenting and Rubbermaid Consumer GBUs as Mark described a little earlier and to the timing shift I just mentioned.
I will provide more details in my segment overview.
Our International business grew 9.1% or almost 5% on a constant-currency basis.
Leading the way were Latin America and APAC regions delivering strong core growth of 21.5% and 7.2% respectively.
We generated gross margin of $490.9 million or 37.7% of sales an increase of 160 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2010 as productivity favorable mix and the pricing of set input cost inflation experienced during the quarter.
Productivity was the strongest contributor followed by higher overhead absorption as we build inventory in advance of international expansion and the new product demand.
We expect our gross margin expansion to be lower in the remainder of the year due to higher input cost inflation and the absence of the overhead absorption benefit realized in this quarter.
As you may recall most of the benefit of overhead absorption fell in Q2 last year.
It is also important to note that the pricing action Mark alluded to largely take effect mid- to late Q2 while higher input cost inflation is here and now.
On a normalized basis first quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $349.2 million or 26.8% of net sales compared with $326 million or 24.9% of net sales last year.
Driving the year-over-year increases were brand-building spend of about $6 million in support of new product launches and new product development as well as other strategic spending of about $5 million directed towards organic growth in faster-growing segments and new categories primarily additional direct sales people.
Structural SG&amp;A increased approximately $7 million mainly driven by support for geographic expansion new market entries and distribution gains in North America.
Foreign currency had an unfavorable $4.9 million impact on SG&amp;A for the quarter.
Operating income on a normalized basis was $141.7 million or 10.9% of sales compared to 11.2% last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $21.9 million representing a $10 million decrease versus the previous year.
This improvement was driven by the benefit of our capital structure optimization plan and a more favorable interest rate environment.
In the first quarter we completed our capital structure optimization plan which was initiated in August of 2010.
With the completion of the accelerated share repurchase in late March we accomplished everything we set out to do with this plan.
The objectives of the plan were to reduce interest cost eliminate future dilution from stock appreciation and strengthen the balance sheet with a simpler more shareholder-friendly capital structure.
During the quarter we exchanged an additional $20 million in principal amount of the extend convertible notes essentially eliminating these notes from our capital structure.
There are currently less than $500 000 of convertible bonds that remain outstanding and approximately $21 million of the 10.6% notes.
We expect to reduce annual interest expense by approximately $20 million to $30 million.
We repurchased 27.9 million of the 40 million shares that were issued in convertible debt exchanges in Q3 last year and in subsequent periods.
The interest savings more than offset overall dilution and the net impact is expected to be approximately $0.02 accretive to normalized earnings per share.
Our normalized tax rate in the first quarter was 25% compared to 37.7% in the year ago period.
The year-over-year tax rate improvement was driven by change in the geographical mix in earnings as well as the 2010 impact of non-cash tax charges associated with the vesting of equity-based compensation and the expiration of certain domestic tax credits.
Our normalized EPS for the quarter came in at $0.30 a 20% increase over last year's first quarter EPS of $0.25.
Our first quarter normalized EPS excludes $0.05 per share reflecting $11.1 million of restructuring and restructuring-related cost associated with the European Transformation Plan and $4.8 million related to a loss on the retirement of convertible notes.
A reconciliation of our first quarter normalized EPS can be found in the earnings release.
We used $108 million in operating cash during the first quarter versus last year's cash generation of $29 million.
Higher inventory level in anticipation of international expansion and new product demand and the timing of customer program and income tax payments were the primary contributors to the year-over-year change in operating cash flow.
CapEx for the quarter was approximately $45 million versus $32 million last year.
Now I'll turn to our segment information.
Home &amp; Family net sales for the quarter were $534.1 million a 4.1% decline versus last year.
Core sales in this segment fell 5.1%.
Excluding the SAP pre-buy effect core sales would have decreased 2.1%.
Our Decor Culinary and Beauty &amp; Style businesses posted strong core growth driven by distribution gain and successful new products.
Offsetting this performance was a decline in our Baby &amp; Parenting and Rubbermaid Consumer businesses.
As Mark mentioned earlier we have plans in place to recover the lost ground in these businesses throughout the balance of the year.
Home &amp; Family operating income was $56.6 million or 10.6% of sales compared to last year's income of $68.8 million or 12.4% of sales.
Pricing and productivity initiatives were offset by lower volume and higher input cost inflation.
SG&amp;A increased $6.7 million mainly driven by $2 million in strategic and $3 million in structural spend to support geographic expansion and Decor distribution gains in the U.S.
The impact of foreign currency increased SG&amp;A by $1.5 million.
In our Office Products segment first quarter net sales were $364.9 million a 3.8% increase versus last year.
Core sales increased 1.7%.
Adjusting for last quarter's volume incentive pre-buy core sales would have increased almost 4% with all GBUs contributing to the improvement.
This segment is also leading the way for our international growth posting more than 25% core sales growth in Latin America and high single-digit core sales growth in the APAC region.
Office Products operating income was $54.9 million or 15% of sales versus 13.5% last year.
Better mix and productivity initiatives significantly expanded gross margin and were partially offset by a $15.9 million increase in SG&amp;A.
The increase in SG&amp;A was mainly driven by a $9 million increase in brand-building and strategic spend across the segment a $5 million increase in structural cost to support new market entries and geographic expansion and the impact of foreign currency which increased SG&amp;A by approximately $2 million.
As Mark mentioned we completed the acquisition of a small company called Headsprout during the quarter.
This bolt-on acquisition will provide proven content capability to our Mimio offering which will help accelerate classroom penetration in North America.
The incremental spend associated with the integration and rapid expansion of this business will be dilutive to earnings by approximately $0.03 in the year.
We expect Headsprout will help generate cumulative 5-year sales well in excess of $150 million at significantly above company average gross margins.
In our Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products segment the first quarter net sales were $403.7 million a 1.5% improvement over last year and essentially flat on a constant-currency basis.
Adjusting for the year ago quarter's SAP pre-buy core sales would have increased approximately 4.5%.
International growth as expected was also particularly strong in this segment with high teen core sales growth in both in Latin America and APAC regions.
As you may recall much of our strategic SG&amp;A spend in this segment has been behind the expansion of our Industrial Bandsaw business.
This business unit the Industrial Products &amp; Services GBU posted almost 20% core sales growth in the quarter.
It is good to see continued evidence that our consumer-driven innovation is resonating with customers and consumers worldwide.
Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products operating income was $49.4 million or 12.2% of sales a decrease of 80 basis points and operating margin from a year ago.
This was driven by a slight decline in gross margin as input cost inflation was not completely offset by pricing and productivity initiatives in the quarter and by a $3.5 million increase in SG&amp;A.
The SG&amp;A increase was mainly due to $2 million of additional strategic spend to support organic growth and new product launches.
The impact of foreign currency increased SG&amp;A by $1.3 million.
Turning now to our full year 2011 outlook.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver on our 2011 guidance.
We are making important adjustments to address the higher inflation outlook and a more uncertain economic environment.
What has not changed is the fact that our new product innovation are resonating with consumers and we're gaining shelf space and market share in many of our key categories.
We're committing to brand-building and the strategic SG&amp;A spending that will drive sales in North America and allow us to continue to accelerate expansion in higher-growth international markets.
We continue to expect full year core sales growth of 4% to 5% and expect 1 to 2 points of positive impact from foreign currency.
Our current estimate assume the tragedy in Japan will have a negative $10 million to $15 million effect on sales.
Although as Mark mentioned in his remarks there's still uncertainty as to the full impact on the supply chain.
Our guidance for full year gross margin expansion of 50 to 75 basis points remains unchanged.
We are experiencing much higher levels of broad-based inflation than we previously anticipated and expect more to come.
We have and will be taking targeted pricing actions to offset this excess inflationary pressure.
As we look to the rest of the year I would also like to remind you that similar to our experience in 2010 we expect fluctuation in our 2011 gross margin expansion from quarter-to-quarter and no given quarter will be indicative of the full year trend.
This would likely be most evident in Q2 when we compare unusually high gross margin in Q2 2010 that resulted from production timing and its impact on overhead absorption.
SG&amp;A expense for the full year is expected to be around 25% of net sales on a normalized basis.
although the acquisition integration and expansion of Headsprout will put some pressure on that number.
Our plan call for SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to be front-half weighted as we invest behind organic growth opportunities which is global expansion including significant new market entries the explication of distribution gains new product launches and other strategic brand-building initiatives.
We now expect a little over half of the year-over-year increase will be incurred in the first half.
Interest expense for 2011 is expected to be around $90 million reflecting lower debt levels and lower borrowing cost as a result of our 2010 Capital Structure Optimization Plan.
Our normalized tax rate for 2011 is projected to be approximately 29%.
We are confirming our expectation that normalized earnings per diluted share will increase 10% to 12% in 2011 with most of the increase weighted to the back half.
This normalized EPS expectation excludes between $80 million and $85 million or $0.22 and $0.26 per share of restructuring and other plan-related costs associated with the company's European Transformation Plan.
We expect annualized net income improvement of $55 million to $65 million upon completion of the European Transformation Plan.
This initiative is projected to result in aggregate restructuring and other plan-related cost of $110 million to $115 million to be substantially incurred by the end of 2011.
The normalized EPS expectation also exclude $4.8 million or $0.01 per share associated with the loss on the retirement of convertible notes incurred in the first quarter.
We continue to expect operating cash flow to exceed $550 million for the full year including $90 million to $100 million in restructuring and restructuring-related cash payment.
We plan to fund capital expenditures of approximately $200 million.
In conclusion we continue to be encouraged by the evidence we are seeing in the marketplace that our strategy is working with customers and with consumers.
We're focused on maintaining our growth momentum while continuing to execute against the strategies that will ensure long-term sustainable top line growth and steady progress expanding our gross margin despite significant inflationary pressures.
Our first quarter results represent good progress towards those goals and provide confidence that we're creating value for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mark for his final comments.
Mark? Thanks Juan.
Before I open the call to question and answers I would like to take the opportunity to thank all of the employees at Newell Rubbermaid.
Since I started my journey as CEO 5.5 years ago I've been privileged to be part of this company's dramatic transformation.
Change is rarely easy and I am proud of the progress that we have made.
Newell Rubbermaid is well positioned for sustainable growth.
We have built a consumer-centric and collaborative culture that supports our goal of being a best-in-class consumer products company.
I'm particularly proud of the results of a recent survey of employees that was sponsored by the Atlanta Journal-Constitution which named Newell Rubbermaid one of the top workplaces in Atlanta.
What touched me most was the fact that our employees overwhelmingly said that they believe Newell Rubbermaid has made positive changes and that the new direction of the company is sustainable and inspiring.
As I near the end of my tenure as CEO I'm confident in the strength of this company and as a Director and a shareholder I'm excited by its prospects for long-term growth and prosperity.
I appreciate the support you have given me and my management team over the years.
We will continue to work diligently to deliver on our financial commitments and create value for our shareholders.
And with that we' ll now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Ferrara from Bank of America.
I wanted to get into the I guess the 2 businesses that you called out specifically as underperforming right? And the first one I guess Baby &amp; Parenting right? So to your point I think the problems you're citing are not new ones I guess.
So can you talk a little bit about what you thought was going to go better this quarter that didn't? Because obviously it missed your expectations right? And what's different about next quarter? And then I understand that you're going to have Century by Graco.
But how much of the negativity can that mitigate? And then can you just talk a little about the long-term prospects of that business right? Are you -- are you viewing that business as any lesser of a growth engine over the next 3 to 5 years I'd say? Let me start there and then go back to your specific questions Chris.
I'm still very optimistic about the prospects for this category on a long-term basis.
It's a category where brands matter.
It's a category that's been underserved by innovations and underserved in terms of communicating to consumers real differences in products and brands.
If I go back to your starting question you're right.
Some of the trends that we've been seeing are trends that we've flagged for actually a number of quarters but the impact of them have turned out to be more persistent.
So what's different you might say is number one on birthrates they have not rebounded as quickly as some of the forecasters have predicted and there is no good forecast of birthrates.
And then second thing was that this trade-down effect which is driven by the fact that the new moms and dads frankly are usually living on fairly limited incomes and therefore are always thrifty.
Value is always at the top of their list.
We've been responding to that value play by products for instance like products on our Grow With Me platform that are a terrific value.
They still require a slightly higher upfront investment but they have great value because they grow with the child.
You can reconfigure the car seat or the feeding chair in several formats to take it from a very -- taking that to accommodate the child from a very young age to an older age.
So what we had expected is one some abatement in the birthrate phenomenon together with the value of these products that we talked about being able to carry the day and also offset some of the softness in North America with growth in other parts of the world.
So what's different going forward is that we're taking a deeper and a more conservative approach to address certainly the trade-down issue.
We can't -- there's nothing we can do about the birthrate phenomenon although I would remark to you that I don't think it's going to get any worse.
I think we're at the bottom of what it's going to be and I think it'll either be stable or going up going forward.
But we are really responding to this trade-down phenomenon in 2 ways well maybe 3 ways.
One is this Century by Graco.
Century by Graco is targeted.
We're currently 5 key items that are targeted at lower price points.
That can compete for that entry-level consumer who just doesn't have the cash outlay.
Second our signature series that I talked about again offers really very meaningful benefits and using the Smart Seat as an example.
You may remember we talked about a Grow With Me car seat from over the last couple of years and that safety car seat was reconfigurable to -- go from about 1 year to 5 6 7 years.
Well now this new one goes from infant to 100 pounds.
So basically we just even broadened the range out further of the convertibility of these car seats or we're just taking that whole concept and going even one step further with it.
But we still know that there is traction in unmet needs in areas like the Grow With Me platform.
So we're doing that even better than we did before we're introducing the Century by Graco.
And the other thing we're doing is we've convinced some of the customers who had either walked away from promotions or walked away from promotions with us to come back.
And I think those are the three things that'll be different going forward.
I think it's likely that we may not return to a year-over-year growth in Q2 but I do expect we will by second half of the year.
Okay great.
And do you think this is a secular issue for the category? Obviously you're making some changes to your strategy going forward right? And those sound like not temporary fixes right? And so is your view that like many other categories this category may kind of be a casualty of the economic environment environment and people are just done with paying increasingly higher prices for this sort of thing? Or do you still view this more as a temporary kind of cyclical thing? I think it's temporary but I think it's not going to be a quick return I think.
But I do think it's temporary.
I think again consumers want the best for their baby.
If you look at the way the economies around other parts of the world the entire family kind of gets together and helps out the newborn parents to fund better products and so on.
And again as we're convinced that there are still unmet or under-met needs in the category that consumers will respond to.
And it's our job to bring those innovations forward and then really tell the consumer about those.
The other thing I'll tell you too is that I don't want you to forget our other businesses our expansion of Graco into Brazil.
We're bringing again new and more relevant products to the market in Europe including on our Teutonia platform.
We're doing the same thing to Aprica in Japan.
And so I think there will be this pressure and this pressure won't go away real quickly for lower-priced items and/or more value in the category.
And yet at the same time I still have a lot of parts of the category in the long term.
I think it's again a category that we can and should win in.
Great.
And then just on SG&amp;A I know you guys had said last quarter that you thought that 2/3 of the year-on-year increase in dollars would fall in the first half.
Now you're saying 50%.
Can you just talk about what that's a function of? Was SG&amp;A lower this quarter than you thought it's going to be? Is it a function of the sales outlook even though that doesn't seem to be changed for the full year? Just talk about why that shift changed.
Let me take a stab on that Mark.
Basically what happened is with little lower sales in the first quarter than we anticipated we gated our spend.
A lot of the activity that implies geographic expansion launches into Brazil stuff like that is also coming in the second half.
And some of the spend that we thought was going to occur in the first half is now shifting.
But just to be clear we still expect about 60% definitely more than half of the spend to fall in the first half of the incremental spend.
Got it.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital.
I was hoping you would discuss how you can maintain your outlook for gross margin expansion if part of your sales are moving towards lower-priced products and promotional activity is going to increase.
I mean how can the gross margin outlook stay the same if that dynamic accelerates in the face of rising inflation? Well I guess a couple of things.
One I think you shouldn't assume that lower-priced items will necessarily come with lower gross margins.
And then second we had promotional activities in our base plan.
We just hadn't yet locked them in for the year.
This is frankly a return to promotional levels that are similar to what we've had in the past but some of our customers had either walked away from the promotions or as I said before walked away from the promotions with us in favor of some lower-cost goods and now they're returning back especially in support of our innovations.
But it's really not as big of a change year-over-year as it might have sounded like.
And I think that's a key.
The other thing I'd remark is as I said I would not underestimate the importance of pricing to maintaining our gross margins.
We've indicated that we've already executed a number of price increases and there's others that we've announced that will go into effect between now and mid-July.
If I could just follow up with that we've heard from other companies that when promotional activity was high consumers didn't buy any more of the products.
And so they and their retail partners walked away from the promotional activity.
Did you see an uptick in your sales last year or in the recent past when you had solid levels of promotional activity? The answer is yes.
And to be clear a lot of our promotional activity is not the same as the fast-moving consumer goods which tend to be mostly pricing or pricing together with display.
A lot of our promotions are full-priced or not deep discounted displays end caps and those kinds of things.
So a lot of the promotional activity is really just featuring our items at the exclusion of or in preference to some of the other choices in the store.
But anyway when we do run specials -- so we run some pricing promotions on for instance our Rubbermaid food storage.
We definitely a see a lift from doing that.
Our next question comes from Bill Chappell from SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> I guess I just want a quick clarification.
So your gross margin and EPS guidance -- it does include the new acquisition? I mean does it have a meaningful impact on gross margin this year? This is Juan.
I'll answer that.
We don't expect the acquisition to impact gross margins.
We do expect it will have an impact on SG&amp;A because we are spending to integrate and expand what we think is a very exciting technology but no impact on gross margins.
Inc.</strong> But it is included in the EPS number? Yes it is included in our guidance.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then second just kind of just turning to the Office Products sector especially with the comp.
I mean it seemed like it's well outpacing what we've seen from the retailers either at the U.S.
or internationally.
I mean is that market share gains? Or are we actually seeing starting to see a cyclical left? I'm just trying to understand what's behind that strength? Again if you look at our Office Products business some of it may not be directly comparable to some of the other guys that you're comparing with right? So our DYMO business doesn't compare with some of the other what I call usual suspects nor does our Fine Writing business.
And those are included in our total Office Products.
That said you may recall I mentioned in my remarks we had some nice growth on the basis of share gains in Paper Mate.
We're introducing value-added items and smoother writing systems and we're getting great response to that and expanding that as fast as our capacity allows us to do that.
But we also have significant strength which I referenced in Fine Writing and in our DYMO business which includes Mimio.
Inc.</strong> Okay I did actually one other.
On a tax rate -- that 29% for the year does that include benefits from kind of the European restructuring into one unit or would that be incremental? It does not include any benefit from the European restructuring.
Or I should say it includes little benefit.
Most of the benefit from the European restructuring should come starting in mid-next year in 2012 after we have implemented SAP in Europe.
Inc.</strong> So even for the tax rate? Yes.
Our next question comes from John Faucher from JPMorgan.
I just want to follow up on that last question.
It's recent [audio gap] on inconsequential amount.
So can you talk about sort of how you see the runway on this business going forward and what type of additive impact on earnings do you think we can end up seeing over the next couple of years? Let me take the first crack at that and then I'll let Juan add to that.
I'd actually like to just take a step back and talk a little bit about Headsprout.
It really is a it's a terrific teaching technology.
And let me first kind of build the case for it.
When we really got into this business with the acquisition of Mimio a number of years ago which was a whiteboard capture project product we recognized that the real category potential was in education and specifically with interactive education.
There are almost 40 million K-12 classrooms around the world and less than 8% of them use interactive teaching.
And yet it's clearly proven to be a more effective way of teaching especially for younger grades.
The game that we originally were into with Mimio was a hardware game or as I said our whiteboard capture device.
But we recognized more and more as we really try to focus on the educational field that's a combination of hardware and software and how the 2 work together that is the real advantage and think in the electronic world like iPad and iPhones you can understand that concept.
So what we wanted to do is really build our capability in the Software side and that's specifically lesson plans and so on.
And that's what this Headsprout is.
In fact I'd invite you after this call go on to headsprout.com.
It's got a great website that explains what it is.
It's got examples of lessons.
And in fact if you have a young one who's learning to read you can buy this -- a subscription to this yourself and do this at home.
It doesn't have to go into the classroom.
So while the big volume and the big sales will be in selling it to the XYZ county school system you can buy it as an individual consumer as well.
We like the business because it's subscription-based.
And buy a subscription to this software that teaches your child how to read for instance.
It's multi -- oftentimes these are multi-year subscriptions.
It's an ongoing source of revenue.
And even more important than this Headsprout was a small kind of niche company that really specialized on teaching and reading but they have a unique IP which is adaptive learning.
So in other words as each child goes through the lesson plans it pays attention to where they're making their mistakes and it goes back and repeats just that part of the lesson plan.
So if they're having trouble with vocabulary or pronunciation or some other element of their reading it understands that it doesn't just generically repeat a lesson it repeats only the parts that they're having trouble with.
So it's really terrific IP and what we believe we can do is use this as a platform to take it from reading to many other subjects including this adaptive learning.
So we think that this works as a package and as I said the future of interactive teaching technology is a combination of hardware and software and that gives that to us.
I remarked in my remarks that I can easily foresee $150 million in sales over 5 years and superior gross margins which you would expect from a subscription software service.
And the other thing that I'd tell you is that a significant reason why this is dilutive this year is because we're making significant investments in it this year.
We're making SG&amp;A investments right away to build our capability to do other subjects to build out the sales force and so on.
So I'm really excited and I think if you go online to headsprout.com you'll get an idea why we're excited.
But this is going really help propel that interactive teaching technology business.
Okay and then the timing in terms of the payback on the deal any sort of thoughts there? I mean it sounds like it could be a while.
No it's actually fairly short payback on the acquisition itself.
Really what makes us more -- and let me not make a big deal out of this because this is a bolt-on acquisition.
It's not a lot of money.
Most of the -- or practically all the dilution comes from the investments that we're making the spending to expand it and to help accelerate Mimio.
Our Mimio the interactive technology is growing about 30% granted it's still small but this will be very significant as significantly above fleet league average gross margins.
So that's really why we're excited.
The Headsprout acquisition is cash flow-positive in the short term.
And when Mark said $150 million in incremental sales cumulative in 5 years that is above significantly above average gross margin.
So that can give you a sense of the kind of NPV the value that this thing is driving so we're excited about it.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello from Oppenheimer.
I just wanted to go back to the Baby &amp; Parenting comments you made earlier in terms of trade-down.
I'm just a little curious because you could probably argue that the consumer is better off today than they had been over the last 6 to 12 months.
So one why are we seeing this trade down so acutely now? And two are you fairly confident that the trade-down you're seeing is related to economics and not a response to competitive innovation? Yes well let me respond to both of those.
First of all the consumer I don't think especially this consumer is not better off than they were 6 months ago.
They're the ones most affected by the persistent high unemployment rate right? They're the new people entering the job force and those are the hardest ones to get employed.
People that are employed tend to stay employed but it's hard to find new jobs.
I think the -- and things like high gas prices just add additional pressure to their pocketbook and their expenditure.
The second piece when you talking about innovation -- or out-innovated frankly that's why I referenced what I probably normally wouldn't have referenced which is the legal action we're taking.
So yes some of the competitors private label producers who are producing some of the products that consumers are trading down to we think are appropriating inappropriately our technology and we're going after them.
But as you know that doesn't -- the resolution of that is seldom quick.
And so we're not being out-innovated.
We're being ripped off.
Okay fair enough.
And then just 2 quick modeling questions.
I guess first as you look at 2Q and the year-over-year sales change the only adjustment we need to think about in the base period is the $35 million of pre-buying which reduced a year ago by about call it 2.5 points.
And then second with the accelerated share repurchase done now what is your expected full year diluted share count? Say that again.
What's expected for the share? I'm sorry I didn't get that last part.
The full year average diluted share count you're expecting in your EPS number? Oh the share count.
It should be 298 because we bought -- we issued some shares in connection with the convertibles that we've bought in the quarter.
But at the same time we settled the accelerated stock buyback so those 2 pretty much offset each other.
So 298 should be the number.
And the base period adjustment is just the $35 million of pre-buying in the year ago.
Yes.
Okay perfect.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman from Barclays Capital.
Just a follow-up on the share count question.
Is the right way to think about 2 of the bigger moving parts in the quarter being the -- or I'm sorry for the rest of the year being the $0.03 of dilution from Headsprout is pretty much offset by the lower the combination of lower interest expense and slightly higher share count? Yes that's one way to look at it because we kept our guidance right? So we're saying our guidance has not changed.
We feel comfortable about delivering what we said and absorbing the incremental spend on Headsprout in our number.
Okay so the Math is ballpark work? Yes.
My two pieces.
Okay great.
And then I just hate to beat the dead horse but on just the acceleration and sales growth implied for the balance of the year you've certainly explained thought process around Baby and Family but I was curious how much of what would be an acceleration comes from the rest of the business? Like is the visibility you've got and the momentum you've got on the business that performed quite well in the quarter is that build from here? So you need stabilization in those softer businesses but it's not like you need them to become significant contributors for the numbers to tie together.
Well I wouldn't say that.
And in fact we do expect those other businesses especially the 2 Rubbermaid Rubbermaid Consumer and Rubbermaid Commercial to be significant contributors.
A lot of their below-year-ago indices in Q1 was this pre-buy phenomenon so I just wanted to get that out on the table.
But we expect those 2 businesses to be significant growers for the rest of the year.
As I mentioned it before Baby Care will come back more slowly although we still expect that to grow in the second half of the year.
And then the other businesses do have strong momentum and momentum which is going to build because they're still exploiting their growth strategies which I talked about before including some of the geographic expansion which we didn't talk about very much but we're pretty excited about the expansion of our writing instruments our Office Products writing instruments into Brazil.
We think that's a big opportunity and we're now building out the infrastructure in terms of the sales and marketing infrastructure in the country and we'll start shipping by the end of this quarter and really start getting into the activation in the second half of the year.
So that's an example of other places where the growth will actually accelerate.
Okay so that's an example of what I was trying to get at.
So like 4% normalized growth in Office Products this quarter your expectation is that actually does accelerate in the back half.
So it's not just about fixing or accelerating what was slow in Q1 it's also that some of the other businesses the outlook is for stronger growth as the year progresses as well? That's correct.
I would just add to that that generally the commercial calendar is busiest in the second half.
And as Mark mentioned we have 2 GBUs in Office Products that are going into Brazil in the second half.
That is wide territory for them today.
Our next question comes from Mark Rupe from Longbow Research.
You mentioned on the Rubbermaid Commercial side that the performance is centered by the pre-buy from last year but also some uneven manufacturing customer service innovation.
I'm just curious number one I guess how significant is that? And then number two I know the U.S.
was lagging some of the international markets in that GBU.
Just curious to see if there's any sign of kind of recovery in demand? Yes so let me talk about some of the operational issues.
So we were experiencing in the middle of 2010 misses on productivity projects and those misses on productivity projects were causing the business to pull back on SG&amp;A that frankly they should have been spending behind their innovations.
That's why the innovation launches weren't going -- weren't yielding what we had expected.
And because of the manufacturing issues we were missing on customer service and the customers were responding and they don't respond well when you do that.
And so we were missing some orders and some reorders because of that.
So as I said the key thing we did was we made some numerous changes to the senior leadership and already the parts of those that you would expect to respond most quickly namely starting to get the manufacturing back under control and the supply chain under control so we can meet orders appropriately at the right inventory levels.
We've got the right productivity coming out as that productivity is what fuels your ability to go make your investments in the innovations.
We can now concentrate on that.
There was one other little thing that we didn't mention before but it's probably worth mentioning.
We were also helped a year ago throughout the year by the Hand Sanitizer business.
We had a pretty significant bump upwards in hand sanitizer behind the H1N1 scare if you may remember.
That business has almost gone back to where it was previous to the H1N1 scare.
So that also has been a little drag on the year but we're about to the point where that's -- we're out of that comp.
That was another thing that was kind of slowing that business down throughout the last several quarters.
So because that comp goes away because the Q1 pre-buy comp goes away because we've got the executional issues fixed and we're not going to miss orders or miss our productivity targets and because we can now focus on doing a good job on some really terrific innovations and exploiting those innovations we're feeling good about the future in Rubbermaid Commercial.
Recall for a number of years that was a strong high single-digit low double-digit growth.
And so then it hit a couple -- hit a downturn in the economy and then some other executional issues that slowed it down in 2010 but it should be a strong growth business going forward.
And we think you'll start seeing that in Q2.
Okay would you say though that last year with the U.S.
lag and maybe the recovery in that GBU relative to the international market that we'll start to see some of that recovery come back this year? I think so.
I think -- again I think that trend will help.
It's a slow recovery but I think that trend will help in going forward absolutely.
It's not going further down.
I think it only has upward momentum from here.
Perfect.
Our next question comes from Jason Gere from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I guess the first question just for Juan.
I mean can you put a little bit of context around some of the gross margin? When we think about the second quarter and obviously the commentary that the cost inflation will hit us much sooner than the pricing will benefit should we be thinking about the gross margin similar to first quarter levels and then accelerating as the rest of the year progresses to kind of get to that 50 to 75 basis points? That's the first question.
I'll start with the last part of the question.
No gross margins will not be as strong as the first quarter because there's the benefit of the overhead absorption in the first quarter.
Last year that was in the second quarter.
So we had the benefit in Q1.
We will not have the benefit of the overhead absorption in Q2 and the next quarter.
We also have -- a lot of the pricing is taking effect mid- to late Q2 and the inflation expectation for us is highest actually in the second quarter.
So you'll have all of those.
I think what is important though is that on a full year basis we're still saying our guidance -- we feel comfortable with our guidance but there will be those kinds of variations quarter-to-quarter.
LLC</strong> So just to be clear so second quarter gross margins are in that 37% range so they could be down almost 200 basis points and the back half should be closer to 39% in that 39% range? Is that a right way of thinking about it? I think the right way of thinking about it is the guidance that we gave for the full year.
And you expect Q2 will not have that benefit so that probably is going to be the worst comp for the year and the other quarters we'll see how they play out.
But just focus on the full year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And what's your assumption for oil? I think it was 90 before.
Again for the full year what are you now assuming? Well we don't pick a specific number because as you know that's fluctuated a lot.
Just looking the last 3 months what's happened behind the civil unrest in the Middle East right? What we will tell you is not going to back 80 but we're also not predicting it's going to go to 150.
Another reason that's important I wasn't trying to be flippant about that Jason obviously that affects us directly on terms of things like transportation.
But even in things like resin it affects us more indirectly.
Recall half our resin comes from natural gas which frankly hasn't hardly moved at all in a year and other factors also affect the resin market.
It has its own supply and demand dynamic.
So I don't want overly fixate on oil.
LLC</strong> Okay and then I guess the other question is just on the pricing.
I mean if you could provide maybe a little more color just on where we should see some of that incremental pricing for the back half maybe the split between domestic international.
And of that 4 to 5 still for the year what are you assuming price will contribute versus volume and where were you prior when you gave initial guidance back in January? When we gave the guidance back in January the inflation outlook was much different.
Our inflation outlook now is about twice what it was then.
So there is more pricing in the model and our assumption particularly in the back half of the year.
We're thinking probably 150 to 200 basis points of our margin improvement will have to be in pricing because of the much higher inflation outlook.
Just to maybe to lend a little bit of color to it I'll give you a couple of examples that might kind of help bracket it.
These are U.S.
because all of our pricing is -- we make our decisions region by region.
So we got a global supply system that's affected but you have to look at the ability of the market to bear it what your competition's going to do and so on on a country-by-country basis.
But then in the U.S.
in our Rubbermaid Consumer business we're looking at price increases at around 8%.
And that sounds like a lot and yet it's less than what our current competitors are taking on average.
We're looking at pricing probably in the neighborhood of 5%.
It won't be across-the-board but average 5% in Baby Care.
So those are the kind of in a relative magnitude of pricing that we're expecting.
And it started to talk to -- those 2 haven't gone into effect yet but we started to have those conversations with our customers.
LLC</strong> And what type...
One correction.
Sorry I told you when I said 150 to 200 basis points that's the inflation outlook sorry.
And we have to offset that.
We were looking pricing before to add anywhere from about 50 to 70 basis points and now we're looking at 60 to 100.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of when you look at the price elasticity a lot of companies in HPC [ph] have been talking about taking pricing without any effect on volume.
Obviously a little bit different for you guys because your products are not bought once a month there but less frequently.
So I was just wondering what are the analytics you ran just the confidence that you have that in those areas where you are taking pricing the volumes will kind of hold up? Well because we know that the price pressure exists for all of our competitors it's either raw material-based or it's import-based and there's inflation in our imported goods.
We know that our competitors are facing the exact same pressures.
And if any of our customers do direct sourcing they're seeing that in what they direct-source.
And so because of that these are cost-justified.
And as I said I think they'll be very -- I think consistently you'll see these price increases have to go into effect across marketplace.
So it could have a small dampening effect in total as the consumer says "Geez can I avoid this purchase?" But the fact of the matter is we're all in the same boat.
LLC</strong> Okay and then the last question is actually housekeeping.
Just clarification on the tax rate again.
And pardon me on this for modeling purposes I think you said the full year will be 29% even with the 25% in the first quarter.
So should we be assuming 30% 31% the rest of the year? Or should we using 29% for our model? Use 29% for the full year because really the way that the tax rate works is you have discrete items from quarter-to-quarter.
And because of the accounting rules we'll have fluctuations up or down.
We're still thinking 29%.
It could be slightly below that but generally 29% should be good.
Our next question comes from Linda Bolton Weiser from Caris.
Can you just give us some color on whether share repurchase is possible this year or whether that would be more something to think about for 2012? And also secondly I thought I heard about some new rating system for car seats that was put into place in the U.S.
a while back.
And I thought I had heard that your car seats actually did not score well on those safety ratings.
Can you correct me on that if I'm wrong? And like explain a little bit what that is about.
Let me start with that one because I don't ever want that rumor out there because it's totally incorrect.
No there aren't new rating systems and no we don't score poorly.
Just the opposite we do very well.
And in fact we're introducing products I mentioned side impact safety.
There's not currently a side impact safety standard in the U.S.
There is in a few other countries in the world and we're trying to advance the cause by looking at our U.S.
products on that basis so that we can start building a case for side impact safety of car seats that are sold even in countries where that there is no testing or standard for that.
I'll address the part of the question on the share repurchase.
I think we're doing well for our shareholders this year in terms of cash distribution.
We just announced a 60% dividend increase.
In the quarter we bought back the stock remaining on the convertible note that was $20 million.
But the fact is that we have debt maturities still this year that we have to address.
So that is the next priority for our excess cash.
And by the end of this year we feel comfortable that we're going to be around the debt leverage target that we want to be.
So we'll take another look next year.
But for now I think we've given back quite a bit and we still have debt maturities to service.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.
Just to keep books on this gross margin thing.
Do you think that the first quarter's still going to be your seasonally worst gross margin quarter? Well not this year Bill.
Okay and how about EPS? Do you think it will be down year-over-year in the second quarter? I think if you work through the math and what we're trying to say on gross margin that will be probably be a good assumption.
Okay.
And then some of the new products...
Just a second.
On the gross margin? This is Nancy.
Let me just clarify.
The expansion -- year-over-year expansion of gross margin is going to be higher in the first quarter obviously but the absolute value gross margin is likely to still be lowest.
That was my question.
Okay good.
And then in terms of gross margin -- and then gross margin in terms of new product I think the old policy was you'd never innovate a product unless it was gross-margin-accretive to the base.
Is that still the case with the value stuff? I won't say the policy was ever never right? But certainly that is always the target.
The target is always new innovations are accretive to gross margins.
And that's even the case on the new stuff as well.
We don't always hit that but that's always the expectation as we start a development.
And is there any update on the CEO search? The update is that there's no news report.
Obviously the search committee is progressing is making good progress but there's no details I can share with you.
We had anticipated in May June time it's most likely.
And I think if you talk to the search committee they'd tell you that's still most likely.
Okay great.
And then the dividend payout ratio like kind of getting to the 40% peer group level.
What do you think the timeframe is for that? We don't have a set timeframe Bill.
We're targeting 30% to 35% payout and we think that's about the right level for us because we have really a lot of growth opportunities particularly in international and you see us investing behind those.
So we're going to go slow -- or I shouldn't say slow.
We're going to pace it based upon how we see the investment needs for growth.
I'm going to sneak in one last one.
The back-to-school season can you just talk about like where retail inventory levels are for the Pen business and what your guys forecast is for the season broadly? I think the inventories are kind of normal.
I think that the retailers as they have for the last couple of years are still managing somewhat conservatively.
They won't do what they did 2 or 3 years ago which is pre-buy a lot and stock it up.
And because of that I think again we'll continue to perhaps shift more into the third quarter that 2 or 3 years ago would have shipped in the second quarter.
Got you but there's not a big...
But we still anticipate it'll be a strong year a good calendar growthful year.
It will be just more paced out throughout the end of Q2 and on into Q3.
Kind of last year though.
There was not a big year-over-year anomaly there? No.
Maybe a little one but not a big one.
There could be a little one though because again I think we're still seeing our customers wanting to kind of pace it out and bring it in gradually as opposed to load it up and try and push it out or try  and return it when they don't sell it.
And our next question comes from Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
I was hoping you could give us some color on if you're concerned about consumer demand elasticity going forward as you implement some further price increases.
And I'm just trying to get a sense of what you've assumed in terms of a volume impact from higher pricing because if demand was hurt by lower promotional spending and trade-down in a couple of your categories I guess I'm just trying to gauge the potential demand impact from higher less pricing.
Again because we anticipate that all of our competitors will be doing the same or perhaps even greater pricing we think that the impact on demand will be relatively small.
And it's hard to quantify per se but we're not impact -- we're not expecting a big impact based on that.
And again we're taking the compensatory actions in other categories like the introduction of our Century by Graco because to the extent that categories like Baby Care are especially sensitive right now.
We know we need the alternative to -- so that as all items go up in price including our competitors we have a good selection of mid-priced and somewhat lower-priced items for the consumer to choose from.
Okay.
And then Juan can you review why inventory was up so much year-over-year in the quarter? Was it the top line softness or pre-buying of raw materials or buildup prior the launches? Just give us some detail there.
And if that's a concern.
You gave the answer yourself.
It was  all of those.
Obviously if sales were somewhat below what we expected that would impact inventory.
So there is some of that.
But most of it is the building of inventory because we are launching really fairly broad new product launches this year so building inventory for that.
We also have significant geographic expansion.
We mentioned that 2 of our GBUs or the Office Product GBUs are launching into Brazil which will be wide territory for them.
So you have the build for that.
In addition as the Japan earthquake and tsunami hit our businesses built inventory and that's what they're living off because of the risk to the supply chain.
And we did some pre-buys on some raw materials to take advantage of prices that were lower at the beginning of the year than we expect them to be later in the year.
So a combination of all those things.
Our next question comes from Wendy Nicholson from Citigroup.
My only question was if you could give us some sense of directional guidance for the different regions in terms of the top line growth.
Last year both Latin America and Asia were kind of low double digits for the full year but there was a big divergence in the first quarter.
So given what you're talking about with the Brazil launch and whatnot should we still think of both Latin America and Asia being low double-digit organic top line growth growers this year or am I off? No I think not that you're wrong Wendy.
I think yes we would expect double-digit growth in both Latin America and APAC.
We would expect Europe would be a little bit below average and North America closer to average and EMEA a little bit below average because recall the job one for them is keep on working on the transformation plan.
The transformation plan prioritizes getting to that 10% sustainable OI [ph] and executing SAP and EPC and then move it to headquarters.
And so we're not expecting as robust a growth out of them as we are out of -- sequentially North America will be better and then Latin America and EMEA will be leading the pack.
Perfect.
That's all I need.
Okay I think that's it for today.
We appreciate your participation on the call and look forward to talking to you soon.
If we were able to get your questions during this call please call Newell Rubbermaid Investor Relations at (770) 418-7075.
Today's call will be available on the Web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (877) 344-7529 with an access code of 450235 starting 2 hours following the conclusion of today's call and ending May 13.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect your telephone lines.
If we were unable to get to your question during this call please call Newell Rubbermaid Investor Relations at (770) 418-7075.
Today's call will be available on the Web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (412) 317-0088 with an access code of 452013 starting 2 hours following the conclusion of today's call and ending August 13.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Great.
Thank you.
Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us for the Newell Rubbermaid second quarter conference call.
On the call in addition to myself are Mike Polk our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Juan Figuereo our Chief Financial Officer.
The conference call today will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
And therefore we direct you to the cautionary statements in the earnings release and in our most recent 10-Q and other SEC filings.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any such statements made today.
In addition we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Management believes that these measures enable investors to better understand and analyze our ongoing results of operations.
I would like to note that we have posted schedules in our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.newellrubbermaid.com that reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn it over to Mike Polk for his comments.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
First let me say that I'm very pleased to be here and I'm excited about joining the company at this important moment in time.
The team has done an outstanding job over the past few years transforming Newell Rubbermaid into a more competitive company.
I want to thank Mark Ketchum for his determination to build a brand-led company and for the work he and the team did tackling the costs capital structure and portfolio issues the company faced.
We're positioned for growth.
My job will be to write the next chapter a chapter that I believe can end with Newell Rubbermaid being a bigger faster-growing more profitable more global company.
There's significant upside for us to unlock and I'm confident we have the people the brands and the resources necessary to capture it.
] I'll talk more about our path forward at a future date.
Today I want to focus on the Q2 results and provide more clarity with respect to the guidance for the balance of the year.
Of course at the end of our prepared remarks Juan Nancy and I are happy to answer any questions you might have.
I spent the first couple of weeks with the team understanding the current state of play and have a good sense of where the opportunities and the risks are in the business.
Of course I was not starting from scratch as I've been a board member since Novemberof 2009.
To be clear there's some revisions to be made to guidance to balance the risk profile in the second half of the year and to set 2012 up for success.
In my opinion they're not major changes but are appropriate given the challenges in 1 or 2 of our businesses and the need to continue to invest in the long-term growth of our categories.
So let's dive in.
I'll focus first on our second quarter headlines and performance highlights and then outline our expectations for the remainder of the year.
As you'd expect Juan will then go into more detail on the numbers.
Overall our second quarter core growth was in line with the expectations we communicated in early June although the profile of delivery was different from what we forecasted.
Baby &amp; Parenting continued to underperform and the Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products group delivered very good results with overall core growth of nearly 9% and double-digit core growth in Commercial Products and Industrial Products &amp; Services.
Total Q2 sales grew 5.1% on a reported basis with core sales growth of 1.9%.
Gross margin was 37.5% largely in line with expectations but down 175 basis points versus last year's onetime benefit-driven high of 39.3%.
Normalized EPS is $0.46 $0.04 above consensus but below the $0.51 delivered in Q2 2010.
We made good progress during the quarter in a number of our businesses and our brand-led growth agenda continues to gain traction in the marketplace.
Six global business units delivered core sales growth greater than 5% with 3 of those 6 delivering core sales growth greater than 10%.
In Asia-Pacific core sales grew a strong 17.2% and in Latin America core sales grew 10.4%.
Our innovations marketing programs and customer initiatives are making an impact.
Paper Mate is gaining share behind new awareness programs and strong innovations like our low viscosity ink innovation introduced in Latin America.
Sharpie is gaining share with innovations on pens and pencils and our new Start with Sharpie campaign.
As an aside if you have a few minutes check out Sharpie's new website at sharpie.com and our new webisodes on Sharpie's YouTube channel.
Office Products was recognized by Walmart in the supply chain area as the 2010 Collaborative Vendor of the Year an award given to the best provider of customer service in our peer group.
Rubbermaid Consumer is growing share in Food and Beverage with the launch of Glass Easy Find Lids and also in cleaning with our Reveal Spray Mop innovation.
Calphalon was named 2010 Vendor of the Year at Target for the work that team has done to unlock category growth with the Target guest.
Levolor has expanded the number of SmartSide in-store machines at Lowes leading its great incremental consumer sales and improved customer productivity.
Fine Writing is growing nicely with the launch of Parker Sonnet and Waterman Pure White collections and the opening of our 400 luxury shop-in-shop in China.
Our Lenox industrial saw blade business is accelerating growth leveraging the significant infrastructure investment being made in Asia as the trend to urbanization continues with our new Q88 band saw blade.
And our Commercial Products portfolio is being deployed into high-profile high-traffic venues.
Every time you travel through Heathrow or any other airport in the world you should increasingly see that bright yellow bucket with the red Rubbermaid logo or our new Rubbermaid HYGEN Clean Water System with a built-in filtration device that cleans the water improving maintenance staff's productivity and reducing water and chemical usage.
These are all important and strategic initiatives that are landing with impact.
With this progress you'll ask why are we not delivering more consistent growth.
The answer is straightforward.
These good results have been tempered by 3 challenging dynamics.
First continued tough macroeconomic and related consumer confidence issues in the U.S.
and Western Europe are affecting category growth rates across many of our businesses.
As a result our core sales in the combined North American and EMEA regions increase only 0.5% in Q2.
Second consumption volatility related to inflation-driven price increases across much of our portfolio has had an impact on volume in some businesses.
Prices are being passed through to consumers.
But as expected we're seeing negative volume impacts.
We've taken steps to establish what we believe is the right relationship between price and volume.
However we'll not get complete clarity on whether we have that equation in balance for another few months given consumer purchase cycles.
In the short term the volatility has been a core growth negative versus prior year but this challenge could very well break positive as we move forward.
Our Rubbermaid Consumer global business unit has taken some of the most significant price increases this year given resin costs and core growth has declined about 1% in the first half of 2011.
The final and most challenging issue that has tempered the momentum in some of our other businesses is the continued underperformance in our Baby &amp; Parenting global business unit.
Baby &amp; Parenting core growth declined about 12% in the second quarter and on the first half.
Excluding Baby &amp; Parenting and Rubbermaid Consumer our core growth in the first half of 2011 was nearly 3%.
So what are the implications going forward? I believe our underlying performance is improving in most of our 13 global business units.
Our second half plans are stronger than our first half plans and the innovation agenda has always been back-half-skewed.
Although we have more opportunity we're making progress broadening distribution on many of our 2010 and first half 2011 initiatives.
However the Baby &amp; Parenting business is turning out to be a bigger challenge than we anticipated and the turnaround we expect to deliver will not happen overnight.
That said we have plans to stabilize Baby &amp; Parenting in the second half of 2011 and believe we can exit the year in growth mode again.
In this context we expect total company core sales growth in the second half of the year to fall between 3% to 5% generally in line with the long-term guidance provided for the business but below the implied second half growth rate communicated in June.
The combination of our first half actual core sales growth of 0.2% and our range for the second half of 3% to 5% result in our full year core sale guidance of 1% to 3%.
This revision to the June outlook is connected to a more conservative view of U.S.
and European consumer confidence and of the timetable required to return the Baby &amp; Parenting GBU to growth.
Despite a strong plan in the second half of 2011 in Baby &amp; Parenting I believe this is a prudent and necessary perspective to embed in our second half expectations given our first half actuals and the underlying category headwinds this business faces.
Consequently normalized EPS and operating cash flow guidance will shift downward in a line to the half 2 growth outlook with EPS guidance of $1.55 to $1.62 and operating cash flow guidance of $520million to $560million.
I believe the choice to revise our outlook is appropriate and gives us the room to deliver very solid second half core sales growth in the 3% to 5% range.
There's been speculation about a need for a more significant EPS reset in order to set the stage for future growth.
I do not believe that is necessary or appropriate.
We have the people the brands and the resources required to deliver steady core growth in the 3% to 5% range.
This is our guidance and the team is focused on delivery month-by-month quarter-by-quarter.
We will stretch ourselves toward delivery at the high end of our guidance.
That said there are 3 important issues that depending on how they play out will influence whether we deliver the high or the lower end of the range.
The first of those factors is our Baby &amp; Parenting business.
As I've said the challenges we're facing in our Baby business are significant.
The number of new births in the U.S.
in 2010 fell to the lowest levels since 2003 and there's no indication that birthrates will recover quickly.
Additionally our Graco consumers young parents starting a family are some of the most economically stressed consumers in today's environment.
In the near term there does not appeared to be an external catalyst for that environment to improve and in fact the debt crises in the U.S.
and across many countries in Europe could further stress consumer confidence.
In this environment our Baby &amp; Parenting results will be driven by strengthening the value proposition for our brands delivering outstanding innovation at the lower end of the market as a defensive tactic stretching our key brands to the higher end of the market with value-added ideas more aggressively deploying our full brand portfolio and executing brilliantly every day.
In the second half in the U.S.
we'll drive consumer-meaningful innovation in the Baby category by both protecting our plank at the low end with our new Century by Graco line and driving Graco to the premium value-added positioning with the broader deployment of the Graco Signature Series.
We're also working with our retail partners to activate greater promotional support in the second half of 2011 than we had in the first half of the year.
These activities are all built into the second half plans.
Importantly in Japan we're seeing signs of progress on Aprica and believe the building momentum there could make a more meaningful contribution as the year progresses.
I think the plans the team has put together can stabilize the business and then return it to growth as we exit 2011 into 2012.
However we must recognize that the consumer environment remains very tough.
So while we believe the plans we have can deliver the intended outcome the low end of our outlook range contemplates a scenario where the Baby business does not deliver the stabilization we expect.
The second issue that could influence where in the range we land relates to how consumers respond to price increases we've taken on our Rubbermaid Consumer business.
The Rubbermaid Consumer global business unit is executing well despite getting off to a slow start in Q1 due to a change in promotional strategy at key customers.
Second quarter results were improved and we and our customers have a more robust promotional plan in the back half of the year.
The main concern here revolves around consumers' demand elasticity resulting from higher prices.
As you may recall we announced additional pricing actions which went into effect in July intended to offset excess input cost inflation.
Those price increases are flowing into the marketplace now.
The good news is that on many product lines we believe our competitors have had to take greater price increases than we have.
Our second half guidance assumes a modeled negative volume impact related to the price increases we've taken.
In this difficult economic environment there is some risk around what impact higher prices will ultimately have on consumer purchasing behavior.
The last key variable that could influence where we fall in the back half core growth range is the consumers' response to our back-to-school programs.
While more of our back-to-school selling occurred in July versus June than we expected we've had a good sell-in for back-to-school and have developed strong programs for the season in partnership with our customers.
Our Sharpie and Paper Mate brands are getting stronger every day and we are positioned to win this important shopping season.
The key uncertainty is whether the consumer will show up and spend.
The resulting sell-through will be a critical success factor in reaching the high end of our guidance range.
So again we're leaving ourselves room to accommodate a reasonable range of outcomes around these 3 important areas of our business.
I know our team is focused on execution and I know they're playing for the high side of the revised growth EPS and cash flow guidance.
That said we need to do that without compromising the strategic agenda we have to build our brands and categories for the future.
I'm confident we can work through these dynamics and get the business back into the cadence of delivering what we say we're going to deliver.
We need to simply do what we say we are going to do.
As I mentioned earlier there's tremendous upside here at Newell Rubbermaid.
The growth potential is what led me to take this job.
We have a great portfolio of brands in growing and globally relevant categories.
As I've said I believe the company has the people the brands and the resources required to deliver our upside potential.
And there are significant opportunities to accelerate growth and improve profitability of our business by more effective commercialization of our products and innovation more complete deployment of our brand portfolio across our existing geographic and channel footprint and by expanding more aggressively into faster-growing emerging markets with the appropriate subset of our portfolio.
To get this done we'll have to continue to improve our cost structure and reduce our working capital to free up the fuel for growth and investment.
We'll need to execute with EDGE which is a concept I've used before and stands for Every Day Great Execution.
Execution with EDGE ensures no opportunity is left unleveraged.
We'll need to continue to build the capabilities of our team with the consumer and the customer in the center of everything that we do.
And we'll need to drive a performance culture deep into the organization with a relentless commitment to delivery month-by-month and quarter-by-quarter.
With that let me hand it over to Juan for a deeper dive in the numbers and then return for some brief summary comments before taking your questions.
Thank you Mike.
I'll start with a review of the quarter's normalized result and conclude with our full year outlook.
I would like to remind everyone on the call that a reconciliation of our reported to normalized result and earnings outlook can be found in our press release and in the earnings presentation posted on our website.
Net sales for the quarter were $1.6billion a 5.1% increase versus the prior year.
Excluding a positive 3.2% impact from foreign currency translation core sales grew 1.9%.
Recall our Q2 2010 sales were negatively impacted by about $35million due to customer prebuying in anticipation of the April SAP go-live in the Rubbermaid Consumer and Commercial Product businesses.
Adjusting for this core sales performance versus the year-ago quarter contracted 40 basis points.
In North America net sales grew 2.4% which is 1.8% core sales growth led by the strength of our Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Product segment.
Our international business grew 13.6% or 2.1% on a constant currency basis with Latin America delivering core growth of 10.4% and Asia-Pacific 17.2%.
Each segment is contributing to the growth in these regions and we're encouraged by the evidence that our strategies are working.
On a year-to-date basis we reported net sales of $2.9billion a 2.6% increase versus last year while core sales increased a modest 0.2%.
Although we are facing worsened economic conditions in the U.S.
and Europe as compared to our going-in assumptions at the beginning of the year we continue to expect sales growth in the second half on the basis of a very robust commercial calendar and continued momentum in the APAC and Latin America regions.
We generated a gross margin of $589.9million or 37.5% of sales a decrease of 175 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2010.
This margin performance is consistent with our expectations and is a result of several factors the most significant of which were higher input costs and sourced finished goods inflation.
We have taken judicious price increases to buffer the impact of the cost challenges.
And while most of the actions took effect mid- to late Q2 some extended to the early part of Q3.
In addition as you may recall Q2 2010 benefited from higher-than-usual overhead absorption.
We expect to generate margin expansion in the back half supported by the impact of our pricing actions productivity and favorable mix.
On a normalized basis the second quarter SG&amp;A was $382million or 24.3% of net sales compared with $361million or 24.1% of net sales last year.
The year-over-year increase was mainly due to other strategic spending of $9.5million directed towards organic growth in faster-growing markets and new categories primarily additional direct sales people as well as brand-building spend of $2.3million in support of new product launches and new product development.
Structural SG&amp;A decreased approximately $5million while foreign currency had an unfavorable $15million impact on SG&amp;A for the quarter.
We do anticipate increased strategic spending in the back half of the year both on a dollar and percent-to-sales basis.
This spend will be aimed at supporting seasonal events new market entries and key product innovations.
Operating income on a normalized basis was $207.9million or 13.2% of sales compared to 15.1% last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $21.3million representing a decrease from the previous year of $11.9million.
This improvement was driven by the benefit of our Capital Structure Optimization Plan a more favorable interest rate environment and the higher mix of short-term borrowings.
Our normalized tax rate in the second quarter was 26% compared to 24.8% in the prior year quarter.
The change in the year-over-year tax rate was primarily driven by the geographic mix of earnings and the timing of certain discrete items.
Our normalized EPS for the quarter came in at 46%-- at $0.46 a 9.8% decrease from last year's second quarter EPS of $0.51.
We generated $92.8 million in operating cash during the second quarter versus $154million last year.
CapEx for the quarter was approximately $51million versus $38million last year.
On a year-to-date basis we used $15.5million in operating cash versus $183.4million generated last year.
The year-over-year change in operating cash flow is primarily driven by higher inventory levels in anticipation of emerging markets expansion and new products introduction and by the settlement of customer programs.
Capital expenditures were $96.1million compared to $69.3million in the prior year.
Now I'd like to turn to our segment information.
Home &amp; Family net sales for the second quarter were $601.4million a 1.6% increase versus last year.
Core sales in this segment decreased 0.4%.
Growth in the Rubbermaid Consumer business was offset by declines in our Baby &amp; Parenting business.
Home &amp; Family operating income was $64.6million or 10.7% of sales compared to last year's income of $75.6million and 12.8% of sales.
The lag between pricing action and input cost inflation impacted this segment particularly hard.
SG&amp;A increased marginally $1million.
A higher strategic spending and a $3million increase from foreign currency translation were partially offset by a reduction in structural SG&amp;A spend.
In our Office Products segment second quarter net sales were $499.9million a 3.4% increase versus last year.
Core sales declined 1.3% primarily due to a shift in the timing of back-to-school shipments while foreign currency had a 4.7% impact.
Office Product operating income was $96.3million or 19.3% of sales versus $99.4million or 20.6% of sales last year.
Input cost inflation and the negative impact of the overhead absorption timing shift I mentioned earlier were largely offset by productivity better mix and favorable currency translation.
An $11million increase in SG&amp;A also contributed to the year-over-year operating income decline.
The increase in SG&amp;A was driven by strategic SG&amp;A spending of $5.4million across the segment and unfavorable currency of $8million partially offset by a reduction in structural spend of $2million.
In our Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products segment second quarter net sales were $471.5million a 12.1% improvement over last year.
Core sales increased 8.8% and foreign currency had a positive impact of 3.3%.
International growth proving its continued momentum was also particularly strong in this segment with significant growth in the Latin America and APAC regions.
Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Product operating income was $67.2million or 4.3% of sales compared with a 16.7% operating margin or $70.1million a year ago.
This was driven by a decline in gross margin as input cost inflation was not completely offset by pricing and productivity initiatives in the quarter.
SG&amp;A increased $7million mainly driven by $4million in foreign currency translation and targeted support to drive organic growth in faster-growing markets and new categories primarily additional direct sales people in APAC and Rubbermaid Medical.
Also of note on July1 we divested the BernzOmatic torch and solder business which generated full year 2010 sales of $101million and gross margin significantly below the company's fleet average.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2011 financial results of the BernzOmatic business will be accounted for as discontinued operation in both 2010 and 2011.
The impact of the discontinued operations accounting treatment on 2011-- on 2010 and 2011 financial results will be made available simultaneously with our third quarter earnings results.
The transaction is anticipated to be marginally dilutive to normalized earnings in both years.
The net proceeds will be used to pay down debt.
We're still working through the numbers and the outlook I'm going to discuss next assumes BernzOmatic as ongoing.
Turning now to our full year 2011 outlook.
As Mike mentioned we're making important adjustments to continue to adapt to the difficult economic environment in the U.S.
and Europe.
What has not changed is the fact that our new product innovations are resonating with consumers and we're getting shelf space and market share in many of our categories.
We're committing the brand-building and strategic spend that will drive sales in North America and allow us to continue to accelerate expansion in higher-growth emerging markets.
We now expect full year core sales growth of 1% to 3% and expect foreign currency translation will contribute about 2 points to our total reported sales growth.
Our guidance for full year gross margin expansion of 40 to 60 basis points remains unchanged.
As previously indicated we are experiencing higher levels of cost goods inflation than our going-in assumptions and our guidance reflects the targeted pricing actions that we have taken to mitigate this excess inflationary pressure.
The impact of these pricing actions will read through about evenly in the back half of the year.
We expect our input costs and source goods inflation to taper off gradually in the second half and expect strong levels of productivity in Q4.
The combined impact of these items is such that practically all of the gross margin expansion is expected to occur in the fourth quarter.
Despite the economic headwinds we're facing we're committed to our strategic initiatives and will continue to spend against them.
We believe this is important to position the company for growth.
Therefore we expect higher levels of SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales in the back half especially since spend to support back-to-school will be more heavily weighted to the third quarter this year.
Interest expense for 2011 is still expected to be around $90million reflecting lower borrowing costs as a result of our 2010 Capital Structure Optimization Plan and lower cost short-term debt in our mix.
We project our normalized tax rate for 2011 to be between 28% and 29%.
We are updating our outlook for normalized earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $1.55 to $1.62.
This normalized EPS expectation excludes approximately $8million related to the incremental costs associated with our CEO transition and between $80million and $85million of restructuring and other plan-related costs associated with our European Transformation Plan.
We now expect to generate operating cash of $520million to $560million for the full year including $90million to $100million in restructuring and restructuring-related cash payments.
We plan to fund capital expenditures of approximately $200million.
In conclusion we're focused on taking the actions needed to address the issues we're facing in certain categories while supporting the momentum across the rest of our business.
We're facing some challenges but we are winning across most of our categories.
With that I'll hand it back over to Mike for his final comments.
Thanks Juan.
Before we open up the call for questions I would just like to reiterate how excited I am to be here at Newell Rubbermaid.
There's tremendous upside potential in this business.
The growth potential is what lead me to take the job and I really look forward to helping unlock it.
My immediate priority is to work with my team to make sure we deliver our 2011 commitments while building and executing a plan that gets 2012 off to a strong start.
I'll talk more about our path forward in the near future.
But with that Juan Nancy and I are happy to take your questions.
Mike can you give us an update on any major changes in strategy you'd expect to implement under your leadership? And also if you're comfortable with the long-term EPS growth algorithm that was laid out previously under Mark? Sure Dara.
Thanks for the question.
As I said up front we'll have more time to talk about the path forward at a future date but I think the path we're on is onewe want to continue to execute against.
The long-term financial model that's been shared through the analyst conferences that have been had and other conversations I think is a good one.
The drive to get structural SG&amp;A down and get the investment into our brands is going to be a critical enabler to unlocking the growth potential in this business.
And of course there's more work to be done in that space.
But broadening our geographic footprint fully deploying our portfolio into-- our brand portfolio into the markets where we compete today and then continuing to drive-- to create operational intensity in this business and execute with excellence are critical elements of the path forward I'll ultimately describe.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Juan you obviously had a challenging Q2 and the macro seemed to be deteriorating a bit in the developed markets.
So can you talk about if you've taken a more conservative approach to full year guidance given a more uncertain world? Then basically your level of visibility around second half guidance particularly on the top line and gross margin side given you're forecasting some improvements in both areas on the second half? Yes unfortunately we're seeing a softer economy in the U.S.
and Europe than we would hope for.
Our business outside of North America particularly outside of the developed world Western Europe and the U.S.
is growing very strongly.
You heard that from the numbers today.
And we have taken more conservative views on the macros which is the reason for pulling down a little on both the top line and the EPS.
Generally we feel good that we're doing the right things in the kind of soft economy that a good business does because we're gaining share and we are positioning the business for strong growth when the economy returns.
Okay.
Could you talk also a little bit about the gross margin side and the pricing/costs dynamics in the back half? Yes we said that we expected Q2 to be the highest inflation pressure of the year.
That expectation still holds true.
We expect our inflation to taper off gradually in the second half of the year.
We've taken pricing in Q2 and we've taken some pricing that takes effect in Q3.
So in the second half we'll have more of the pricing benefit that we had in Q2.
And in Q4 we would have the full benefit of pricing.
And with the tapering off of cost then that's how we expect the gross margin expansion to play out.
Okay and what percent of your pricing that you have planned for the full year have you taken already here? And can you just talk about retailer response in terms of pushback and if that's gone through and if your competitors have followed and then also the consumer reaction? And I'll end it there.
Dara it's Mike.
We've taken most of the pricing that we're going to take so far.
Of course you can't anticipate what's going to happen with inflation.
And if we need to respond to that we would.
But against the cost structure we anticipate we've got most of our pricing in the market right now.
As I said in my comments the pass-through has occurred relatively seamlessly.
And given the scope of inflation that everybody in the industry is facing it's a universal event.
There's not much pushback from retailers on these increases.
Of course the key question for both the retailer and for us is whether-- what happens with respect to consumer purchase behavior.
And that's the thing that everybody's watching like a hawk.
So our teams are looking at point-of-sale data out of the retailers every week and in some cases daily to understand the movement differentials between price and unit consumption.
And that's going to be the key determinant in the second half of the year as to how you manage the price/volume spending equation and that will be true for us.
It's true for virtually everyone in our industry and it's true for the retailer as well.
So I think the full story is still to be written.
The first phase of it is behind us.
Pricing's been communicated.
The pricing's in the marketplace.
It's being passed through to consumers.
You see prices coming up.
And we'll have to watch this very closely to understand consumer involvement with our brands and with our categories.
It puts more of a burden on the marketing community to really leverage the brand assets we've got.
And this is where Mark's commitment to transform Newell into a brand-led company is so so important.
The kind of progress that's gone on here over the last few years is really pretty remarkable in that respect.
And it's the strength of those branded assets that'll be the key determinant as to whether the volume falloff is more significant than we've got forecast and whether actually our volume shares increase relative to competition.
And my bet is they will because we see such improvements in the equities of these brands' credit to the team.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First in terms of the retailer inventory levels you're seeing today where are they in the U.S.
and Europe? And is your guidance assuming a further drawdown of those inventories? Well Joe as you know it's not actually the drawdown in the inventories that matter it's the change in the change in inventories that actually influences your turnover.
So the question is: Is the drawdown this year different from the drawdown in the last year window? That's the thing that drives the top line effect for us.
And we don't see anything out there today to suggest that that's going to be an issue for us.
Of course you've got the normal levels of inventory activity going on at our customers because of course their key metric is return on invested capital.
And so they have to continue to work that.
But is the degree to which they're working that this year different than what we saw last year? There's nothing out there today that suggests that's a problem for us.
Okay that's helpful.
And in terms of Baby &amp; Parenting in particular the outlook for the second half you said it was down 12% in the first half and it sounds like you're assuming you get back to sort of a growth mode exiting 2011.
What does that growth rate look like in the second half? Well we don't provide guidance on GBU growth rates.
But as I said in my comment we're hoping to stabilize this business and return it to growth as we exit 2011 into 2012.
And within the bandwidth of the guidance that we've provided we've given ourselves the breathing room to not deliver that.
So on the low end of the range it contemplates a situation where we're not as successful as we hoped to be stabilizing the Baby business.
So I think we've thought through this with the kind of granularity you would hope we would to give ourselves the confidence that even with the downside scenarios continuing on the Baby business that we can land in the range on core growth that we've guided to.
And of course that's obviously really important for me at this point showing up and standing at the bully pulpit and telling you that we're going to do what we say we're going to do.
Obviously we've thought through that.
We believe we've got it planned right.
Of course you can't anticipate every scenario but we've certainly tortured the numbers over the last couple of weeks and feel comfortable that we're in the right zone.
Okay got it.
Just onelast one for you Mike.
Your background is mostly in CPG so I'm just curious if you're seeing any major differences or anticipate any major differences in the semi-durable businesses you're in today.
I think these businesses are some of the most exciting businesses.
If you look at Bill Burke's business in Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products I mean these are very exciting businesses.
Of course they're different in the cyclical nature of them in the different sourcing strategies and the fact that they're selling not directly to the end consumer but they're selling to-- they sell to 2 constituents the user and the chooser.
So I think there are differences in the model which are actually exciting for me.
I'm glad I really look forward to learning them.
In fact the first series of GBUs I'm going to spend time with in the next couple of weeks is with Bill to just get closer to those businesses and also to his customers because the rest of the business obviously feels quite natural to me.
Of course office products is a little bit different than foods beverage or personal care where I come from but it looks awfully familiar.
And in all the businesses I've worked in there are always key drive windows and you have to nail your key drive windows.
And that's clearly the case with Penny's business the Office Products business.
So I think there are differences and I respect them so I'm not going to come in and sort of blindly apply all the lessons I've learned along the way in the 27 years I've spent in the consumer-- in the fast-moving consumer goods categories.
But the thing that's interesting and exciting and challenging for me is to learn these new dynamics and to adjust my leadership agenda to the realities of them.
But I will tell you that I do think the principles that I've learned about over the 27 years in fast-moving consumer goods apply.
This is about creating a winning proposition with brands and innovation.
It's around-- it's execution matters here and that's why this phrase that I talk about EDGE Every Day Great Execution is so important.
And we need to build and continue to develop our executional capabilities both at the point of contact with the consumer and the customer but also through our business system.
And that's as true in consumer goods as it is in consumer durables.
Costs matter.
Costs-- getting the costs out of the business and getting the working capital reduced so that you give yourself the fuel for investment in the P&amp;L and you give yourself the cash flexibility to invest to build the business that's quite frankly similar.
Of course the dynamics are different.
The inventory turns are different.
The sourcing is different.
And then of course-- so continuous improvement is obviously at the heart of both businesses and will be at the heart of this one.
And then businesses pivot around people.
You can have the best strategies in the world from a brands innovation standpoint.
You can have the executional force and intent in the marketplace.
You can have great plans to get costs out.
But if you don't have great people that have a performance edge the strategies are only as good as the paper they're written on.
And so those are the 4 key pivot thrusts that companies either succeed or fail on.
And I don't think that's different between consumer goods and consumer durables.
What do I bring through all the experiences I've had? A really pretty good understanding of all those different dynamics in the business.
And then of course I bring to Newell I think at the right time a perspective on the world with experiences in Asia-Pacific and experiences across the Americas and then the latest role across the whole world in building business-- building global businesses.
And that obviously is the big next opportunity for Newell Rubbermaid.
I said there are 3 things that matter.
We need to commercialize our products and our innovation and our marketing agenda with excellence.
We need to fill out our portfolio in the markets and in the channels where we compete today.
And then we need to extend beyond those markets and broaden that geographic footprint of the business.
And we need to find the room in the P&amp;L to do that because-- and I think we have plenty of room to do that.
So look there are differences.
I respect them.
They actually excite me.
I love learning new things.
And I really feel the connection with the people here.
I have the benefit of having been on the board for a couple of years and so I know folks.
It's not like I'm coming in cold.
And of course relationships do matter.
The differences excite me but I think there are a number of core principles that are as relevant to the consumer durables business as they are to the fast-moving consumer goods businesses that I come from.
Is there any way to disaggregate the sales growth in the back half of the year between what is kind of committed pipeline fill and what your assumptions are in replenishment? Is there some way to do it? Yes.
I'm just trying to get a sense for like how much confidence you have in the back half sales guidance and how much you think "is in the bag" and how much kind of relies on some consumption behavior? Well I mean a lot of it relies on consumption behavior.
I don't think it's in the bag but I wouldn't call it if I didn't think we could make it because it's obviously important to get back into that cadence Bill of delivery.
The thing that really worked for us in 2009 and 2010 was the consistency the steady and consistent delivery of our objectives.
And we need to get back into that cadence.
Obviously we could have gone lower.
You would have given us permission to go lower.
I actually think it's not the right thing to do and I feel confident that we can get in this range without doing anything that screws up our ability to get 2012 off to a fast start.
And that was the criteria I used as I looked at the flow of the business through the quarter.
The thing to remember about our activity plan this year is it's always been back-half loaded.
The innovation profile is back-half loaded.
And because of some of the challenges we had in Q1 with some customers with respect to merchandising activities we see promotional -- our promotional plans skewed to the back half.
So I think the 3% to 5% plans -- of course there's some pipeline on new products in there but the 3% to 5% -- the plans that support the 3% to 5% delivery are primarily consumption-driven plans.
And when you see us building share like I quoted in the U.S.
on brands like Sharpie and on Paper Mate and on Rubbermaid Consumer Food and Beverage and on Rubbermaid Cleaning you begin to feel confident.
But there are 3 variables out there that could cause us to end up on the low end of the range and Baby &amp; Parenting is clearly the big piece of uncertainty.
We've assumed we can stabilize and then return to growth as we exit the year.
Time will tell.
We're looking at it weekly monthly daily.
We have to to look at the flow in the business.
So the first indicator I'll have is when I see the July actuals which are right around the corner.
And obviously we considered them when we did -- as we were deciding exactly what to do with respect to guidance.
The other uncertainty is the volume impact on pricing.
We're watching it.
And if we need to adjust our game or if competition chooses to promote too deeply and we have to respond we'll respond.
The price competitiveness relative to competition is the cost of entry in any one of these businesses.
And the third is the consumer takeaway with respect to Office Products.
So those are the 3 variables that are unclear at this point in the back half of the year and they could drive us either to the bottom end of the range or towards the top end of the range.
But so I think -- I'm quite comfortable that we've called the range that we can deliver.
The challenge to everyone in the team is to go out and do it now.
Okay yes that's great.
And then just Juan if I do the math and the midpoint of the cash flow from operations range for the year it seems like a 40% growth rate in the back half.
I mean can you just give us some comfort how you're going to get there? Yes at a very high level Bill if you look at cash flow generation as a percentage of sales and you were to take out the range that we're giving you would see that it's actually below the cash generation that we had last year.
And that is because we're leaving -- since we are expanding into new markets particularly Brazil in the -- and starting now and into the beginning of next year and we also have SAP go live in Europe in the first half of next year so we're leaving ourselves room in the cash flow forecast to build a little -- a few days' inventory towards the end of the year.
Okay.
That makes sense.
But my point is almost the exact opposite that it looks like you need 40% year-on-year back-half growth to make the newly guided cash flow from operations number? Yes well that is because inventories are a little higher right as we're going into the second half.
We also have the back-to-school shift which means receivables are a little higher than the previous year.
So that cash will come back and will come back strongly beginning towards the second half of Q3 and the beginning of Q4.
Okay.
Great.
And do you still think -- I'm sorry you go ahead.
Sorry Mike.
Bill this is Mike.
Every one of our GBUs has a number with respect to inventories that they're incented to deliver and it's front and center.
There's a bright light on those numbers.
So again when you think about execution you think about delivery and consistently doing what you say you're going to do each one of those 13 GBUs has in their forecast which ties to the range we've given committed to deliver those numbers.
And of course we'll follow through and make sure that happens.
And that corresponds with their incentive compensation also? Yes.
Okay.
The debt repayment I mean is it still your intention that when the debt comes due in November you're going to take it out instead of refinancing it? Is that still the case most likely? Yes in terms of capital allocation our first priority is to pay down the debt and get our credit rating where we want it to be.
There's other things that we could do with cash.
One of the beautiful things about this company is its cash capacity and there's more room to improve it.
So obviously getting that where we want it to be is job one and then there are other things to be done.
There's the commitment to invest to accelerate the growth in the business.
And there is obviously other alternatives that can create shareholder value that of course the board constantly talks about.
We've taken a step in the right direction with respect to increasing the dividends in the business and there's probably a little bit more room there.
And then of course there are other alternatives.
But in terms of number one priority with respect to cash deployment we got to get the debt repaid.
We got to get the credit rating where we want it to be.
And then we have -- we and the board have a series of options in front of us.
Okay.
So I think there's $300 million of debt or so due right in November? So you probably take that out and then do we kind of revisit dividends and share repurchase? We'll go through with the board how we want to sequence the deployment of capital.
So rather than give you a specific answer to that question I'm going to duck because it's...
It's your first call so that's allowed.
.
I'm going to duck because I think the board gets a vote as well on what we do.
Okay.
Great.
And then Juan just -- sorry to keep going but the 25 -- you could kind of always target 25% SG&amp;A to sales ratio.
What do you think the new number is now given the step-up in the back half of the year? And historically I always thought it was kind of like pay-as-you-go so you're going to fund strategic with lower overhead.
Is that just going to be disconnected in the back half of this year because of some accelerated merchandising activity? Our first half spend is a little bit lower than what our long-term guidance.
What I don't want to get into the cycle of Biz-Mike.
I don't want to get into the cycle of managing those numbers in the 90-day window or 180-day windows.
Strategically I think the guidance we've given is right.
One of the things we'll have to think through as we build out the geographic footprint of the business is how you manage the deployment of infrastructure in coordination with the revenue generation.
So as we build in Brazil we may have slightly a higher SG&amp;A ratio that comes with building up the business there or in China or in Southeast Asia or any of the other places we might think about going.
We're going to have to manage that.
And in any given quarter you're going to see that flex one way or the other.
The strategic priority we have is to get more money invested in the strategic G&amp;A whether it's the selling capabilities the marketing capabilities the R&amp;D capabilities to develop proprietary points of difference or the specific spending behind our brands.
But I don't think we need to do anything dramatic in this area.
We just -- we'll have to manage that.
One of the other interesting effects that we've got within -- across the 13 GBUs is that you have very very different SG&amp;A profiles as a percentage of revenue on those 13 GBUs.
So depending on how we play our portfolio with respect to our growth agenda you may see an SG&amp;A mix effect in the numbers.
Now I'm not suggesting that any one of those drives you to an outcome that's different than the strategic guidance that we've given so far but I reserve the right to look at that as we think about how to make sure that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts with respect to Newell Rubbermaid.
And that may force us to come back to you guys and say listen here's the new equation and it may require some of those metrics that we've been pretty absolute on to flex in order to enable the outcome.
And you can judge whether that's a good point of view to take to market or not.
But we'll make sure we do all of our homework before we put anything like that in front of you.
Just let me add here.
You heard Mike's view about how to manage the SG&amp;A.
And to be clear we do expect to be over 25% in the second half of the year.
On the Baby &amp; Parenting segment just trying to get an idea of what your expectations are for the category.
I know you want your business unit to stabilize and then show some growth next year.
But just trying to get a sense of the minus 12% is that the category or is that you and the category is something less than that? This is -- there is no one category within Baby so -- there's a whole series of different segments.
So I hesitate to quote a Baby category growth rate.
Category growth rate clearly though is depressed across each of the segments.
We have good momentum quite frankly relative to the market but it's just sort of not an acceptable outcome to be down 12%.
It just -- it really obviously dampens tempers the momentum we've got in other places.
So we have to figure that out irrespective of the share momentum we might have in the business.
And as the leader in the market which we are globally it's incumbent upon us to drive and be the catalyst for category growth.
That's what -- we need to think about not simply brand share shifting but market development and expanding the size of the pie.
And so that's the challenge.
It's a very very complex challenge.
And I want to make sure that our shining a bright light on this business doesn't lead to the wrong impression.
We've got very bright people working on this business and working day and night to try to figure out how to create that catalytic event without the category -- in the context of the category headwinds that they're facing.
So I want to be clear that we've got the right people working on the business and doing the right work.
The question is does that work yield the catalytic event that we want it to yield to drive stabilization of the business and get the business back to growth.
I think there are things we could be doing differently in this category than we have up until now.
We have the benefit of a stronger back half plan -- which was always the flow of the business so there's nothing new there -- than our first half plan.
But we need to be working in partnership with our retailers to create more engagement in this category from a consumer perspective.
And you do that either by creating a vehicle to attract new users to the category more users to the category.
You create that by broadening the consumption options that they've got once they're there or you do that by premiumizing the category and bringing more benefits.
So more users more usage more benefits.
That's the way you expand markets.
It's not easy when you're dealing with birth rates that are the lowest level in 7 years.
And if you look at the rate at which they've fallen in 2010 versus 2008 I think they're off 5%.
So you've got a dynamic there just on birth rates that is compounded by the fact that people that are having kids especially young families that are having kids are feeling a real pressure from an economic perspective.
They're the folks that are stressed the most right now.
And so they're either borrowing their sister's car seat or they're buying a car seat at a tag sale as opposed to going and buying new stuff.
And we can't control that.
That's the reality in which we operate.
What we can control we need to do with brilliance and particularly now.
And when the category ultimately turns around all the work that we're doing now in this category will yield wonderful benefits when the category does turn around.
And I'm not about to predict when that'll be.
I know I've seen others' comments about it seems to be turning -- I don't think we should be building a planning posture in this category that assumes a category turn-around anytime soon.
I think that would be the wrong choice because it would take the pressure off the work that the GBU needs to do.
And so look it's a very difficult environment and it's not -- it's not one that any of us haven't been in before.
So there's a tremendous amount of empathy for the folks that are trying to create the catalytic events to turn this business.
But the burden is really on us to do it.
And you can be assured that -- I was joking with the fellow who runs the GBU the other day that I was going to take a couple of chairs out of my office and put another desk across for me where I can throw my little crumpled-up papers with ideas over to him.
He didn't think it was very funny but that's the kind of involvement that he's going to -- he's going to get our full support in trying to help him make this turn because it's obviously quite critical.
It represents -- the category represents GBU represents about 10% of our business.
Juan on the European Transformation initiative the cost savings has there been -- could you remind me of the flow of that that $55 million to $65 million I believe is what it is the flow of that.
Is that all post-'12 or will we see some of that in 2012? And then I guess if there's been any change in that thought process? Yes well the benefit is more than just cost right? There's also some tax benefits in there.
The operating benefits are coming in slowly.
The tax benefits come in after the APC SAP implementation next year.
But you see that the EMEA the Europe operating margins have been improving.
In fact we are either on track or slightly ahead of where we expected to be in terms of the OI improvement in Europe.
Can I just ask about -- maybe I'm confused but I had thought that the company's confidence in second half sales growth being higher was that you have certain shelf space gains and planogram changes at retailers that will benefit you in the second half so that's kind of the root of your certainty.
In which case I'm confused about why you had said that the increase in growth was consumption-driven.
Because certainly your categories aren't going to spurt ahead and grow higher to 3% to 5% growth rates in the second half when the growth is so low now.
And so while it's good that you're gaining shelf space at retail that's a real positive thing but it does create a lumpiness in terms of shipments that could create issues for comparisons next year.
So could you just kind of comment on that? Sure.
I mean Linda there's 2 elements.
First of all I'll push back just a little bit on the shelf space comment you made and not being consumption driven.
In fact in my experience while there's a pipeline benefit that comes with that that's not the material change that occurs.
The material change that occurs is that your brand's presence broadens relative to the rest of the category typically because retailers don't expand the sections.
So if we're gaining distribution and gaining facings it's coming at somebody else's expense.
So that results in a share gain and should result in a share gain which benefits us.
And that's consumption.
The other thing that typically happens is retailers are really savvy.
They're not going to give an inch of shelf space up to something they don't believe brings some new news to their category.
And typically the things that we're bringing in that we're gaining shelf space on are the things that are innovations or bring new benefits to the category.
And so when you do that you create more consumer interest in the category and that results in consumption dividends.
So yes you're right in one way that the -- there's an inventory benefit to increased distribution and that's a onetimer.
But the real value is in the increased turns you get off shelf and the share expansion that you should theoretically get if the ideas you're bringing to retail are ideas that bring new news incremental value to the category.
And the retailers keep us honest on this.
They're not just going to put a me-too product on shelf.
They want -- they are feeling the heat as much as we are with respect to increasing their same-store sales.
So what do they manage? They manage their real estate.
And so they manage it in a very very disciplined and hard-edged way.
And trust me if we don't bring something that's good and new and powerful to them they're not going to take it.
And we're not stupid enough to throw money at them to take it because that is just -- that's a waste of space and a waste of time and a waste of profit.
I'd rather have the investment go into building consumer relationships with the brands.
So you're not confused Linda I think we're saying the same thing.
The space gains are there.
The product will be there.
Mike is saying once the product is in the shelf it needs to rotate.
Yes and it does.
Otherwise it doesn't stay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And can I just ask about your philosophy on portfolio changes divestitures and acquisitions.
I guess more on the acquisition side.
And Newell has always been and continues to talk about making acquisitions in the future but my experience over the years with the company is that one thing that's a great idea today to acquire ends up being a divestiture candidate 5 or 7 years later.
So can you just talk about kind of your view on acquisitions? Yes it was interesting because Nancy was giving me a hard time and Alicia was giving me a hard time about the fact that I said 3 times in the speech that I think we have the brands the people and the resources to win.
They thought it would get old news.
I think I'm going to continue to say that until I'm blue in the face.
So maybe a year from now I'll continue to say that.
I think our primary job is to unlock the growth potential of this business organically.
That's not to say that there won't be opportunities to strengthen our agenda by bringing assets or capabilities in from the outside that we don't have today in our portfolio.
But I don't want the team spending a whole heck of a lot of time on that.
In my experience the best way to create value is to grow organically.
Now again bolt-ons new capabilities proprietary points of difference from a technology standpoint things that strengthen our ability to build our geographic footprint out brands that might fill portfolio gaps within the existing categories in which we compete those are all interesting things that we've got to consider.
And it just comes down to the economics which is the best way to create value.
And so I'm not saying I don't believe in M&amp;A because I do believe in M&amp;A when it can strengthen our agenda.
But I don't want the teams focused on M&amp;A.
I want the teams focused on the ideas they need to build to unlock the full potential in their categories.
And I want them thinking about how to deploy their categories more actively into the existing geographies and channels in which we compete because there's a lot of opportunity there still.
And I want them thinking about how to build the business system in the geographies which have -- in the emerging markets where the categories in which we compete have higher growth rates; and in the developed world where we have the vast majority of our footprint today I need them thinking about how to make the investments and understand the right route to market the right product propositions for consumers in those local geographies and the right marketing programs to unlock those opportunities.
That's job one by far.
And then Juan and I and Buddy and the team we'll think about bolt-ons if they make sense and they strengthen our potential to deliver job one.
I was interested in your comments on working capital because at about 20% of sales it's high compared to a lot of the companies in my universe.
But I understand that Newell has benchmarked itself against other comps and has even been described in some ways as best in class against those comps.
So I'm interested to hear what you see is the opportunity for Newell in working capital.
Which of the components hold some of this opportunity and how you would make progress against that? Yes let me first take a stab at it Connie and then Mike certainly will jump in.
I will say that we're focused on working capital.
We do look at what others are doing and we make sure that we are building capabilities.
SAP et cetera has been helping us.
This year when you look at our working capital position in Q2 we have 6 more days in inventory -- about 6 more days in inventory than we had last year.
Those are for good reasons:  Back-to-school shift new product launches and expansion into emerging markets.
We have about 3 days more in receivables than we had last year basically from the back-to-school shift.
And that will come -- should come down fast.
So as we see it from now is more fine-tuning as we improve our capabilities to manage on a global basis.
And SAP is giving us capabilities that we did not have before.
So we expect continuous improvement but no big changes as we did a couple of years ago when we took 12 days out of inventory.
I don't think I'll build on that.
I think working capital has to be right in the center of the core business metrics that our GBUs have just like market share is where they can measure it just like top line core growth is just like their innovation metrics their margin metrics are.
It's one of the key dashboard items that they have today and they'll continue to have and we place -- we'll continue to place the same emphasis on this as we do anything else that we think can benefit from continuous improvement.
Okay.
And then if I could also ask a question about the geographic platform.
I understand the appeal of emerging markets and how Newell categories or businesses can fit nicely there.
But the U.S.
is still 70% of total and most of the categories are flat to down and have been even before the recession.
So how -- I mean what are your thoughts about growing turning the U.S.
sales? I mean how can U.S.
sales grow sustainably? I guess that's my question.
Yes I mean I think this is the most important question.
Let me be very clear.
You can't extend beyond until you win where you are.
So my comments on broadening the geographic footprint to this business there's no way that doing that in the short term will compensate for underperformance in North America or underdelivery in Europe.
So -- or Japan or Australia New Zealand.
I mean Australia New Zealand Japan Europe North America these are -- that's where the business is today.
So you clearly have to win where you are before you can extend beyond.
I agree 100% with you.
And I hope no one misreads what I'm saying to suggest that the growth thrust will be emerging markets.
Actually the growth thrust has to be the first 2 priorities I said which is commercializing our agenda with more efficiency and effectiveness and impact whether that's the way we bring products to market or the innovation agenda we've got in the markets in which we compete today; broadening the distribution of our ideas in the markets in which we exist today and in the channels in which we compete today.
There's plenty of opportunity to do that.
And I said those 2 things first on my list before I got to broadening the geographic footprint in the fast-growing emerging markets and I did that sequence on purpose.
Because the third priority would be to do what we're saying.
Now I think we can walk and chew a gum at the same time because we're not going to press out into emerging markets in a way that risks the first 2 priorities.
So we've launched Paper Mate and Sharpie into Brazil at the very tailend of June and we've got an excellent plan there to build our business.
We're testing Rubbermaid Consumer Food and Beverage and a couple of other categories and we're testing Baby &amp; Parenting in Brazil.
And we're going to figure that out and do that right before we cast too wide of a net in the emerging markets.
Our Fine Writing business is on fire in the developing world.
400 shop-in-shops in China.
And we're now deploying and opening our first one in Moscow.
And we're looking at other emerging markets where luxury goods -- it's interesting when you go around the world and you look at these countries you get this bifurcation in the market.
The high-end luxury end of the market really is on fire because brands really do matter.
And you've got the low-end opportunities as people enter the category as they grow their economic well-being.
And so our strategy needs to straddle all ends of that and we're doing that today in a disciplined fashion.
So as we think about the emerging markets opportunity trust me we're going to do that in a very disciplined way that leverages -- I bring a lot of insight on this from my days at Unilever and my days running Asia Pacific for Kraft.
So that's where they're both companies -- certainly Unilever's strength is 60% of their business their $60 billion business is in the emerging markets.
So I spent a lot of time looking at that.
Juan has tremendous experience.
Penny has tremendous experience.
Jay has worked outside the U.S.
We're going to do this the right way but it is a -- it isn't the dominant force that will drive our growth.
You're right.
So I guess Mike you joined the company from the board obviously like you said you're no stranger to the rocky relationship the company has had and the stock has had with investors and I think you've alluded to this already.
So I guess I think many of us have expressed over time why we think your stock oftentimes discounts basically no growth potential giving it no credit for the positive changes that have been made.
But I guess I love your view on why you think the market takes such a cynical approach to the stock and has in the past and it seems like you have a pretty good opportunity to change that.
Obviously you're taking the over on that bet by taking this job.
But I mean what would you do? What are you going to do do you think to change that sentiment that's out there? Yes I think we have to earn the confidence from the market.
I don't think there's anything I can say to deal with the point of view that people have on this stock.
We have to quarter-by-quarter just deliver the agenda we are committing to deliver and prove to you that we're a good bet relative to the other bets that people can make in this segment -- a better bet than the other bets that people can make in this segment.
So I don't have a magic answer to that.
I think what you can count on us to do is to be completely transparent about where we are; to engage and communicate the good the bad and the ugly along the way; and to upload your feedback.
I think the first -- the next 6 weeks for me are about getting out and about and listening because I need to make sure I understand the history before I can work with the team to build the future.
And I'm proud of what this team has done.
I'm proud -- and I think if you understood maybe the way I understand what's happened here over the last 5 years you'd really feel -- I'm sure you'd begin to feel the same way.
It's been heavy lifting to take this company and make it a brand-led company as Mark has done to tackle those costs capital and portfolio of challenges that were here.
And the team deserves immense credit for having gotten us to the position we're in today.
And companies get -- company's stories get written over multiple chapters.
And so Mark's written the first one and I'm going to work with this team to write the next one and somebody else will write the third one.
And it may take beyond my life cycle in this role for us to earn the respect I think the company deserves and to trade with a multiple in line with our peers.
I don't know how long that will take.
I think the thing that I'm going to focus on though is not worrying about that.
That is what it is.
I'm going to worry about charting the right path with the team and then worry about delivering it.
And the story will play out the way it plays out in the market.
I'll do my best to explain it and to bring clarity to what our agenda is and help you understand our portfolio which is an opportunity.
And I don't want to get into that today but I will shortly with you because I -- part of what excites me is the growth potential but I have to explain to you why and I haven't done that today.
And that's something that needs to wait a few months until I listen carefully to everybody and can make sure that my perspective is grounded in all the understanding it should be grounded in.
But once that's done I think I can get you excited about this business in the same way that I'm excited about it.
As I said to you -- we've said I've made a bet.
You said I made a bet.
I did.
Believe me I go home every day and my wife looks at me and looks me in the eye and says "Was it a good bet bad bet?" And I'm telling her it's a good bet.
And so now I don't worry about you guys.
I worry about her.
So I'm pretty confident that we're going to find our way to the right place here and it's going to be really fun doing it.
So my commitment to you is to engage to make sure you understand where we are and what we're thinking about and you guys are going to -- the investors are going to have to make the judgment about whether this is a better bet versus the alternatives they've got.
I'm going to apply everything I know to this business.
And I'm not naive enough to think that I know all I need to know.
That's why I'm going to sit with Bill and his team in Tools Hardware and Commercial first next week and the week after.
So this -- we'll see how the story ends but I don't think there's a magic formula to getting the multiple and getting the discount to our peer group resolved.
I think we have to earn it.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple quick questions.
I think one of the reasons on the original lowering of guidance was comments that some retailers had slowed orders.
I didn't really hear that on this call today.
So I mean have order patterns gotten back to normal and now it's just waiting on the consumer? And then just a second question.
Juan you may have given -- but can you give me what the full year tax rate is expected to be? Yes Bill first on the comment and Mike you can add more on the retailers.
We talked about the shift in order patterns because retailers were more cautious about the economy and we have seen that.
We mentioned that there's been shift in back-to-school from Q2 into Q3 that impacted inventories that account -- impacted receivables and obviously that impacted sales as well.
In terms of the full year tax rate we expect it will be between 28% and 29%.
I'm not sure there's much to add there.
I don't think -- I'm not seeing anything with respect to order patterns impacting our -- the fulfillment of the growth agenda we've got in the back half of the year.
I think the question now will be whether we get the consumer takeaway we anticipate.
And that's the uncertainty that's in the guidance we've provided and we've talked about these 3 issues.
Our ability to turn Baby &amp; Parenting with the cadence with the speed in which we've said which is flat in the back half of the year hopefully exiting with growth.
The consumer takeaway from the back-to-school window which we'll know over the next 6 weeks or so because we'll watch the point of sale; and we'll see the order patterns the fulfillment order patterns picking up towards the end of August.
If we see that movement in Office Products we'll know we've got the consumer takeaway we need.
The volatility around pricing largely in Rubbermaid Consumer that's clearly a question mark.
One of the things I've asked the group is what is the purchase cycle because typically you have to wait 2 to 3 purchase occasions before you really know whether you've got the equation right or whether people have chosen to step away from the category or not buy as frequently.
And that's something that will take us a little bit longer to understand and we will.
And so again that's a consumer-driven dynamic not a shipment-driven dynamic.
But again we'll see that in the order pattern in late August into September.
If we don't see Food and Beverage ordering occurring then that will be symptomatic of an issue on volume related to pricing that we'll have to address.
And as I've said I want to be clear on this and in particular in this business where it's a bit more asset-intensive where you can -- if you don't have the right balance of volume and price you can get into fixed-cost absorption issues and gross margin issues we will have the right balance of volume and price.
It's just a question of playing for the perfect -- the high side answer which is the one we think we're playing for right now where we hold prices and protect our upside margin potential.
Did that answer your question Bill? Inc.</strong> Going back to the question it seemed when it came out in the press release it was more of retailers were pushing back on your pricing and there was a mass kind of postponement of orders.
It sounds like it was really just Office Products and a kind of delay of back-to-school shipments.
Is that the way to look at it? Yes that's the way to look at the Office Products.
In fact it wasn't small either.
And then you see it -- I've been reading as many reports as I can read of our retailers.
And they talk about it as well that they pushed their ordering back.
So I think -- I'm not concerned about that at all.
If I didn't see the share progress on Sharpie and Paper Mate I'd be worried but we see it.
Or the progress on Rubbermaid Consumer in both Food and Beverage and Cleaning.
We're building share in those positions.
We can't control the category growth rates in the short term.
We can over time by bringing better innovation and better marketing programs to market.
But if we're building share then we're doing the things we need to do to put ourselves in the position to win.
And having sat with the sales guys and having sat with Penny about their plans by customer for back-to-school I think we couldn't be better staged.
Whether it plays out or not the clock countdown is occurring towards the ends of August.
We'll know by then.
LLC</strong> I'll also keep it pretty short here.
Just one.
I guess Mike you were talking about July and trying to get a read on that.
I mean obviously given the guidance for the top line for the back half you must have some indication of how July is kind of shaping up which includes obviously some of the back-to-school shift.
So I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about that how that shaped into the guidance that you can provide for the back half.
And then I have another question.
Well Jason obviously it's something that's front and center and we had -- this is day 10 for me.
So from the beginning of my time I've been asking how we doing how we doing how we doing.
And so obviously that's a variable.
But of course we can't tell you how July is doing and we won't because that's forward-looking.
But it certainly was a variable in shaping the choice we've made and we had up until yesterday to choose what to do.
So I'm sure you know we were looking at it all the way to that point of time.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just with the back-to-school I think you just mentioned obviously the shift was kind of a sizable.
I mean is there any context you can put around that how we should think about with -- I know again it's forward-looking.
But typically what percentage of your office sales come through the back-to-school during that period on an annual basis? Jason I got to confess I've tried to learn as much as I can in the last 10 days but I actually don't know the answer to that.
But I'm not sure I'd give it to you.
I don't think I want to give it to you because then from now on we'll be backing into our new numbers.
But all I'll tell you is the body language and the data in terms of merchandising frequency and the depth of activity looks good and that's what I can focus on.
The size of the shift was material for the Office Products group but I don't think we want to get into quoting a specific number.
Or do you Juan? LLC</strong> Was there also a timing shift with Rubbermaid Consumer because of some promotions from Sterlite that pushed you up into the third quarter as well? We had trouble on Rubbermaid Consumer in the first quarter with respect to merchandising activity.
Our performance picked up in Q2 and we feel good about our Q3 Q4 plans.
The group feels like they've got a really quite robust plan.
That said we want to protect the price increases that we've taken.
So what we're looking at is good frequency of activity but not -- we're not going to dip too down -- too far down because we've got the resin inflation to deal with.
And it's not just the list price that matters or invoiced price that matters.
It's net-to-net price that matters.
So we need to make -- and we don't know what the consumer impact of merchandising at a higher price point than we've historically merchandised at will have on consumer purchase dynamics.
So it's really important for us to land the pricing in order to deliver the outcomes we're looking at from a margin perspective in an environment of pretty steep inflation in our resin-based businesses.
And remember resin is nowhere near what it used to be with respect to percentage of our cost.
It's only around 8%.
But for that business it's important.
And we'll just manage that very dynamically.
But again we don't see any pattern shifts in ordering tied to that but we have forecast volume down within Rubbermaid Consumer and modeled it and it's baked into the midpoint of the range related to the pricing we've taken.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the other question's a little more strategic just about consumer behavior.
Obviously we've seen with Baby kind of struggling with some cyclical issues here the trade-down to the value.
So I was just wondering as you look at the portfolio are there other opportunities that you can kind of cure [ph] the portfolio a little bit more value as you look longer term? Look I think you need to -- I'm happy with the portfolio we have.
There's always going to be opportunity to I've used the language before sort of weed and feed it.
And that's something we will always be looking at.
I think the more important thing to look at within our portfolio is to play along the price continuum within the categories in which we compete and to develop a brand portfolio by category that allows us to serve consumers in each one of those categories no matter what their means are.
Of course you want to do it in a way that is attractive from an economic perspective in our business.
You have to be able to deliver a cost structure at the low end and a margin delivery at the low end that is generally a good return for us but I also want to push the -- I mean quite frankly push the portfolio higher to bring more benefits.
And what makes us different in each one of these categories is we're the leader and the leader has the opportunity to create differentiated propositions at the high end of each one of these categories.
And I'm hopeful -- and we've done that over the last number of years under Mark's leadership and I want to turbocharge that.
So there's more to come with respect to me articulating our path forward.
I don't want to get too far into it today because I want to make sure I've contemplated and listened actively enough to the folks that really have been involved in this business over the last 5 years in shaping us and putting us in the position to do what we have the potential to do next.
Inc.</strong> I just have a few brief questions really just points of clarification.
First with the adjusted core sales growth from the SAP prebuy did that disproportionately affect one segment over the other or was that pretty evenly distributed among the segments? That impacted some 2 segments.
One of the business units was Rubbermaid Consumer which is in the Home &amp; Family segment.
The other was Rubbermaid Commercial Products which is in the Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products segment.
Inc.</strong> So looking at the core sales growth in Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products is there a way to kind of splice how much of that growth was driven by the SAP prebuy? Yes the impact was about 4.4%.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then lastly and I apologize I may have missed this but did you give the gross margin bridge for the quarter with the cost savings and commodity cost inflation impacts for the gross margin contraction? No we didn't give a bridge.
We said our guidance is unchanged at 40 to 60.
And we said we expect most of that year-over-year expansion to come in the fourth quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Newell Rubbermaid Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Just a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations home page under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell the Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Thanks Amy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's third quarter conference call.
On the call in addition to myself are Mike Polk our President and CEO; and Juan Figuereo Executive Vice President and CFO.
We have a lot of news to cover today so I'll give you a heads up now that we'll extend the call as needed to make sure that we answer as many of your questions as possible.
Now before we begin let me remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements in our presentation today.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected and therefore we direct you to the cautionary statements in the earnings release in our most recent 10-Q.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any such statements made today.
I'd also like to point out that we will be referring to normalized results and outlook which are not GAAP measures.
We present this non-GAAP information for comparative purposes so that investors may better understand and analyze our ongoing operating trends.
For further information on reconciliations to comparable financial measures determined under GAAP please see today's news release and the additional presentation slides posted at our website www.newellrubbermaid.com.
With that let me turn it over to Mike Polk for his comments.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
We have 2 objectives for today the first and most obvious is to share a solid set of results for Q3 and certainly a step up in our performance from the first half of 2011.
The second is to tell you about some changes we're making to simplify our organization for growth.
First let's get into the results.
Our third quarter results represent a step up in our sequential sales trend and good business performance across most of our portfolio.
Reported net revenue growth was up 5.8% core sales rose 3.3%.
These are competitive levels of growth and represent solid progress over the 0.2% core sales growth we delivered in the first half.
Q3 actuals bring our year-to-date core sales into the full year guidance range of 1% to 3%.
Q3 normalized EPS was $0.45 up 7.1% versus 2010 and $0.03 above consensus despite $0.01 negative impact in the quarter from the BernzOmatic disposal.
Operating income margin was 13.7% up 20 basis points versus prior year and 40 basis points versus prior quarter.
Importantly we generated strong operating cash flow of $295 million and strengthened our balance sheet by paying down about $229 million worth of debt.
Our debt is now the lowest it's been since 2007.
Also during the third quarter we allocated a little over $24 million to repurchase 1.9 million shares under our 3-year $300 million share buyback program.
Those repurchased shares represent about 0.6% of the total shares outstanding.
The 20 basis point improvement in operating margin was achieved despite gross margins being below our expectation at 37.4% 100 basis points below prior year.
Our gross margin shortfall was mainly due to resin and source goods inflation and our choice to maintain price competitiveness through targeted promotions in a couple of categories most notably Rubbermaid Commercial Products Rubbermaid Consumer products and Everyday Writing instruments.
Maintaining price competitiveness and driving profitable market share growth is essential to unlocking the full growth and value potential in our business.
We intend to do that smartly while being very tough on costs and even more aggressive on productivity.
In Q3 productivity mix and pricing were not significant enough to cover what was the peak inflation period in the year.
Input cost inflation had a negative 270 basis point impact on gross margin.
We've actively managed Q3 SG&amp;A to more than offset the gross margin headwinds clamping down on structural SG&amp;A while continuing to invest in strategic SG&amp;A for growth.
Strategic SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was up 80 basis points in the quarter.
We expect fourth quarter gross margins to sequentially improve as a result of increased productivity continued flow through of pricing and lower levels of inflation.
However we now anticipate that gross margins on the full year will be flat to down 30 basis points.
On the full year we expect total SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to be in line with 2010 but strategic SG&amp;A to be up 50 to 75 basis points.
All 3 operating groups delivered accelerated year-over-year growth in Q3 versus their first half performance.
Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products had another strong quarter with reported sales up 10.3% and core sales up 7.5%.
Office Products delivered reported sales growth of 5.5% with core sales up 2.2%.
Home &amp; Family delivered reported sales growth of 2.9% with core sales up 1.1%.
Five of our global business units delivered core sales growth greater than 5% with 2 of those 5 growing core sales more than 10%.
About 85% of our sales are generated in the developed markets where our core sales grew about 2%.
About 15% of sales are generated in the emerging markets.
Core sales grew over 18% in Latin America and nearly 6% in Asia Pacific.
Our top 14 brands generate nearly 85% of our revenue.
10 of those top 14 brands grew reported sales over 5% and of these 10 5 grew over 10%.
As I hope you can tell from the numbers we're building momentum across most of our portfolio.
For our businesses which are primarily professional facing we have a strong set of results supported by a number of breakout initiatives.
For the seventh consecutive quarter our Industrial Products &amp; Services business grew core sales greater than 10% behind our powerhouse Lenox expand.
Our Irwin brand continues to perform well delivering high single-digit core sales growth behind the tremendous brand-building ultimate Tradesman challenging and this year's Inaugural National Tradesman Day which recognized and celebrated America's professional tradesmen.
Our Rubbermaid Medical Solutions business delivered strong double-digit Core Growth as it continues to build share as the innovation leader in mobile medical parts and mobile electronic medical record solutions for healthcare facilities.
Rubbermaid Medical is on track to nearly double its revenue in 2011.
In our DYMO office technology unit our Endicia Internet postage business delivered strong core sales growth of over 25% and gained market share.
Endicia processes well over $1 billion of postage annually on behalf of the U.S.
Postal Service.
For our businesses which are primarily consumer facing we have some great stories as well.
Paper Mate launched a new subline called Ink Joy into Latin America in late Q3 and we're getting great results at sell-in as well as sell-through.
This innovation will roll out globally over the next 3 to 6 months.
Since joining Newell Rubbermaid I've told all the writing folks that my favorite Paper Mate pen is Paper Mate profile but today I can report that I have a new favorite in its Ink Joy.
Ink Joy has the smoothest easiest write of any everyday pen I've ever used.
They leverage a new ultralow viscosity ink technology and nip configuration.
On Fine Writing we continue to build our presence in the emerging markets such as China and Russia with luxury shop-in-shops.
In Q4 the Fine Writing team will introduce their most significant innovation in decades Parker Ingenuity featuring Parker's proprietary Parker fit technology which provides an exceptionally smooth and fluid writing experience that actually adjusts to your personal style of writing.
You can google Parker Ingenuity and order these new extraordinary pens today.
I bought one online for my wife Trisha [ph] last week and she is New Jersey tough as I've told you previously so I've got to be careful what I bring home as a gift and she absolutely loved it thankfully.
In our strong North American markets our Calphalon brand delivered their highest U.S.
sales quarter ever with double-digit core sales growth.
We shipped our big distribution win in the quarter with JCPenney and Calphalon also won share with new products such as our refreshed contemporary nonstick line our new contemporary bronze nonstick line and our expanded kitchen electrics offerings.
And the Sharpie brand in North America continues to roll with a 1.6 share point gain in Q3 to about an 82 share of the Markers &amp; Highlighters market behind the start with Sharpie campaign and great merchandising results at back-to-school.
So some exciting momentum across our portfolio.
We're also making good progress against most of the challenges we've called out in our late July earnings call.
Let me first focus you on the North American back-to-school drive period.
As you recall we had strong sell in at back-to-school with some benefit from the retailer-driven June timing shift into July.
Our sellout was also very good in total with particularly strong performance on Sharpie and Expo.
In aggregate we executed really well and grew share nicely through the back-to-school drive period.
Bottom line we're motoring on Sharpie and Expo and with the Q4 launch of Paper Mate Ink Joy we should see a strengthening profile across the portfolio as we exit the year.
Rubbermaid Consumer performed largely on plan this quarter although competition remains intense.
As I said in July we priced but we will remain competitive and make the choices necessary to maintain our strategic price gaps versus competition.
We will not lead pricing down but we will stay on pricing principle irrespective of the pressure this could create on gross margins.
Building market share in our targeted Rubbermaid Consumer priority segments is the best path to value creation on this business.
At the same time we're looking at every aspect of the business system to further drive out costs to increase gross margins so that we can support the brand more strategically with value-added innovations like Rubbermaid Reveal Spray Mops Rubbermaid Easy Find Lids and Rubbermaid Easy Find Glass Containers.
This same priority exists on Rubbermaid Commercial Products.
That said for the second consecutive quarter sales growth on Rubbermaid Commercial Products was strong and a great set of innovations are moving rapidly to market.
This is particularly nice to see given the hard work that Neil Eibeler and his new management team have done to reverse the late 2010 operational issues this business faced.
While there are still some execution challenges which have hampered productivity and put pressure on gross margins he and the team are moving fast to accelerate the growth even further while simultaneously driving gross margin improvement.
Juan and I were at our Cachoeirinha factory outside Porto Alegre in Brazil and in Mexico City with the Rubbermaid Commercial Latin American leadership team last month.
This is a top class team with a very clear vision of how to build our business in these important markets and I have no doubt that Rubbermaid commercial products will feature strongly in our global strategy going forward.
Baby &amp; Parenting continues to present challenges.
That said there is some good news here core sales in Q3 were down only 1% which is an important step forward from the 12% core sales decline in the first half of 2011.
Our North American new products including Century from Graco the broadened Graco Signature Series and the new Aprica launch at Babies R' Us have all shipped.
And the Aprica business in Japan appears to have turned the corner over the last 4 months delivering strong double-digit growth behind our new innovations including the Karoon ultra lightweight stroller and the new Fladea car seat.
While this is clearly helpful and a positive development what I don't like about the current situation is that our 1% core sales decline is flattered by the positive Japan results and the North American pipeline benefit of new products.
I would like to see more sellout data on the North American new products and more positive evidence of our strength in second half merchandising before declaring we've stabilized the business.
Longer term we need to address the strategic issues in the business by becoming more of an innovation leader than we are today by more broadly deploying our unique 3 brand portfolio and by partnering more collaboratively with our key retail partners to develop the market.
Of course this will take investment and we will need to work with our key sourcing partner to release the investment capacity for growth that is currently trapped across the total enterprise.
This will be key if we're going to unlock the full potential and value of this business.
Baby &amp; Parenting should be one of the most exciting businesses we have in the portfolio given the population growth in the world the strength of our 3 brand portfolio and our global leadership position.
We obviously have not been able to crack the code and unlock a compelling value creation story over a number of years.
As a result of the sustained challenges on Baby &amp; Parenting I'm going to make a leadership change in this global business unit placing one of our strongest leaders on the business while also bringing Baby &amp; Parenting much closer to me.
More on this in a few minutes when I discuss Project Renewal.
So for Q3.
Positive results for the quarter in a very challenging economic environment.
Core growth of over 3% operating margin income expansion of 20 basis points earnings per share growth of 7.1% and strong operating cash flow of $295 million.
So what does all this mean for guidance? We've created some good momentum and our underlying performance has the potential to steadily improve.
Our ability to deliver on our guidance will likely be influenced more by the macro environment than anything else at the moment.
While we're becoming pretty adept at delivering results in the current environment we're looking forward to the day when our category growth tailwinds finally reappear behind our businesses.
I doubt that day is likely to come anytime soon and we are building our plans assuming that we have to deal with another very tough year in 2012.
We're going to have to continue to deliver growth in the context of slow to no growth markets.
This could very well increase the cost of delivering growth which is something we'll have to deal with as we manage the business over the next 12 to 15 months.
For 2011 we are reaffirming our previously articulated guidance of 1% to 3% core sales growth operating cash flow in the range of $520 million to $560 million and normalized EPS in the range from $1.55 to $1.62 despite the $0.04 negative impact of the BernzOmatic disposal which was not incorporated into our previous guidance assumptions.
We now expect gross margin to finish out the year flat to down 30 basis points.
We will balance gross margin risk by being very tough on structural SG&amp;A costs while continuing to increase strategic SG&amp;A as we invest to strengthen our brands and build our capabilities.
We grew value market shares in most of our businesses in Q3 and delivered 3.3% core sales growth and grew EPS 7.1%.
Unless there's some positive external event or something changes substantially in our own algorithm these results offer a pretty good reference point for our business potential over the near term.
In this context we are once again reaffirming guidance for 2011.
We will not provide 2012 guidance until we report full year results on January 27 2012.
However given all the [ph] factors I've mentioned what is likely to be a higher cost of growth in slow to no growth markets over the foreseeable future I think it'll be very difficult for us to get our core sales growth consistently into the middle or higher end of the long-term core sales guidance range of 3% to 5%.
Let me turn it over to Juan who'll provide additional details on the Q3 numbers and the impairment charge we took today.
Thanks Mike and good morning to everyone on the call.
In the interest of time I will refer you to our press release for most of the details so that I can focus on just a few areas of our improving financial results on a normalized basis.
But first let me summarize the salient points of our performance this quarter.
First we generated core sales growth of 3.3%.
Second operating cash flow of $295 million was strong and improved 52% year-over-year.
And third although our gross margin came in short of our expectations we continued to invest in strategic SG&amp;A to drive demand.
In fact our strategic SG&amp;A increased $22 million an increase of 11.2% or 7.9% excluding ForEx as compared to the year-ago quarter.
Structural SG&amp;A decreased $20 million a decrease of 11.9% versus a year ago or 14.8% excluding ForEx.
In North America net sales grew 3.8% which represents 3.1% core sales growth led by the strength of our Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products segment.
Sales outside North America grew 11.8% or 3.5% on a constant-currency basis with Latin America delivering Core Growth of 18.4% and Asia-Pacific 5.5% or 15% adjusted for a onetime Rubbermaid Consumer promotional order last year.
Gross margin was a challenge for us this quarter contracting 100 basis points to 37.4%.
We faced 270 basis points of headwinds from input costs and source goods inflation while productivity contributed a lower-than-expected 80 basis points due in part to the SAP ramp-up in the core GBU and to volume-driven under-absorption in our hardware business.
And although pricing went through as expected adding 120 basis points higher promotional activity and a more price-sensitive consumer environment in the U.S.
adversely impacted product mix.
This was particularly true in our Everyday Writing Rubbermaid Consumer and Rubbermaid Commercial Products business.
For the fourth quarter we should see both sequential and year-over-year gross margin improvement as we anticipate lower input costs pressure and the full impact of previously implemented pricing actions.
Despite the gross margin pressure we continued to invest in demand-creation initiatives in focused growth areas.
Parts of the Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products segment where we are showing the strongest growth trends was one of those focus areas and support for back-to-school and geographic expansion in the Office Products segment was another.
The company operating margin was up slightly about 20 basis points to 13.7%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $21.8 million representing a decrease from the previous year of $8.5 million.
This improvement was driven by lower overall debt levels and the higher mix of lower-cost short-term borrowings.
Our normalized tax rate in the third quarter was 28.2% compared to 30.5% in the prior-year quarter.
The change in the normalized year-over-year tax rate was primarily driven by the geographic mix of earnings and the timing of certain discreet items.
Also during the quarter we recognized approximately $28.2 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits driven by the expiration of various worldwide statutes of limitation.
That favorable impact is not included in the aforementioned normalized continuing tax rate.
We're now projecting our full-year tax rate to be approximately 28%.
As previously communicated during the quarter we divested the BernzOmatic hand torch and solder business and therefore we have accounted for the financial results of this business as discontinued operations in both 2010 and 2011.
Restated quarterly results for 2010 and 2011 have been posted on the company's website.
On a 2010 full year basis the divestiture of this business reduced sales by $101 million and had a dilutive impact of $0.02 on earnings per share.
In 2011 on a full year basis it is expected to reduce sales by approximately $110 million.
During the third quarter our GAAP results included a negative impact of $0.04 per diluted share or $11.2 million net of tax representing the net loss from discontinued operations which has been excluded from our normalized EPS.
Relative to our normalized EPS guidance think about it this way as you know our July guidance did not contemplate the impact of the BernzOmatic divestiture.
Bernzo would have contributed $0.04 of earnings to the full year but as a result of the divestiture we will no longer generate those $0.04.
To be clear we are reaffirming our guidance for full year normalized EPS in a range from $1.55 to $1.62.
We have not changed our guidance despite the negative impact of the Bernzo divestiture or the impact of the lower-than-originally forecasted gross margin expansion although neither were originally contemplated when the guidance was provided during our July earnings call.
During the quarter we conducted our annual impairment tax of goodwill and indefinite live intangible assets as this timing coincides with the company's annual strategic planning process.
That test resulted in impairment of goodwill for the Baby &amp; Parenting and hardware business units and therefore the company recorded noncash impairment charges totaling $383 million or $1.05 per share in the third quarter.
These impairment charges are not included in normalized earnings.
Now let's take a look at the balance sheet.
During the quarter we generated $295 million in operating cash flow.
We used $229 million to pay down debt and returned $47.9 million to shareholders in the form of $23.5 million in dividends and $24.4 million paid for the repurchase of 1 869 000 shares.
The share repurchases during the quarter had less than $0.01 impact on normalized EPS.
We have another $250 million in debt maturities scheduled for March of next year which we intend to pay from operating cash flow.
We believe our balance sheet will continue to get stronger and towards the second half of next year we should be coming close to our desired comfort range of 2.5x debt to adjusted EBITDA.
We plan to continue to repurchase shares at a measured pace over the course of our recently announced $300 million 3-year share repurchase plan period.
The board gave management discretion to be more opportunistic or more conservative depending on the attractiveness of share repurchase versus other competing options.
Those other options include investing back into the business to fuel organic growth dividend payment and potential small bolt-on acquisitions.
We continue to make steady progress improving our working capital notably we'll reduce inventory by a little over 4 days from Q2 levels to essentially flat year-on-year days.
We expect to record between $90 million and $100 million of restructuring charges to implement Project Renewal with between $30 million and $40 million expected in 2011.
We believe the planned initiatives will be completed by the end of Q1 2013 and will require a cash use of approximately $75 million to $90 million.
This is a realignment of spending priorities not a cost reduction plan.
Therefore the savings of approximately $90 million to $100 million will be reinvested in the business to accelerate growth.
Mike will provide more details in his closing remarks.
Operating cash flow guidance is unchanged at between $520 million $560 million for the full year and includes between $85 million and $95 million of restructuring and restructure-related cash payments approximately $10 million of which relate to Project Renewal.
We anticipate spending approximately $200 million on capital expenditures in 2011.
We still have work to do in a number of areas but overall our results are trending in the right direction with sequential core sales improvement and modestly improved operating income despite a very challenging macro environment.
In summary we're pleased with our third quarter performance and believe we're making solid progress.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Mike.
Mike? Thanks Juan.
Now I'd like to turn to Project Renewal.
I told you on the last call that our mission is to write the next chapter of the Newell Rubbermaid story and that our ambition is to build a bigger faster growing more global more profitable company.
I said we'd do this in 3 stages.
We first get the business back into a cadence of doing what we say we are going to do essentially reestablishing our cadence of delivery.
Q3 is the first proof point with respect to what I'd point the delivery stage and we of course know we need to string together a number of quarters before we'll be able to credibly put a checkmark in this box.
The second stage involves making a series of strategic choices that will enable us to unlock the full growth and value creation potential of our portfolio.
At a recent investor conference I referred to this as the strategic stage.
Project Renewal represents an important first step in the strategic development of the next chapter of our story.
It's a step designed to liberate the trapped capacity for growth and margin in the business one also designed to enable us to deal with the higher cost of growth given the slow to no growth market environment we will inevitably have to face into over at least the next 12 to 15 months.
While I will not cover in a detailed way how and where we intend to invest the funds we released through Project Renewal today I will walk through the changes we intend to make to simplify the organization for growth to essentially set up the third stage the acceleration stage.
Of course the payoff over time is in this third stage the stage where we consistently deliver in the long-term guidance range.
While I will not put a timeframe on the quarter or the year where we will emerge into this range of delivery given the macro environment I'm certain the funds released through Project Renewal when coupled with a set of sharpened strategic investment choices and strengthened capabilities will deliver that outcome faster than we would've otherwise gotten there.
Since starting in July I've had the opportunity to meet with employees in 8 of our top 10 countries reviewed each of our businesses multiple times been to 5 of our most important factories met with many of our customers and customer teams and spent time with many of you in person or on the phone.
I've listened learned asked questions and developed a pretty comprehensive understanding of our business.
This engagement has helped me shape my perspective on how to play our portfolio to win how to redeploy our resources to the best business opportunities we have and how to simplify our structures so that we're sharp -- we're making sharper more decisive choices the choices we need to make.
Today I'd like to discuss the first steps in the process of unlocking our full growth and value creation potential steps that will simplify the organization design and release trapped capacity for growth and profits by reducing the complexity of our group global business unit and corporate structures.
I've also taken a hard look at our manufacturing and distribution network and the work that has previously been done to strip out excess capacity.
I was really reluctant to open this door given everyone's desire to close the book on the transformation program thinking that any further choices in this area would be small and could be funded out of normal operations.
I'm sure many of you on this call would've preferred me to leave that door closed but there are a couple of important choices we should make that have a quick return and will drive up capacity utilization and improve gross margins on 2 strategically important businesses.
While we're still finalizing some elements of the changes we plan to make I can share the broad outlines with you today.
Effective January 1 2012 we will reorganize our company structure to more closely mirror our go-to-market strategy with 2 rather than 3 operating groups one that comprises our consumer facing businesses and the other that comprises our professional facing businesses.
These 2 groups will be called Newell Consumer and Newell professional.
The Newell Consumer businesses will be run by Penny McIntyre current group President Office Products and the Newell Professional business will be run by Bill Burke currently group president Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products.
Jay Gould currently Group President at Home and Family will be leaving the company effective  January 1 2012.
I want to recognize Jay for his leadership and service at Newell Rubbermaid.
Jay is one of the key thought leaders in our business and was instrumental in shaping the brand-led growth agenda that is so critical to our overall program today.
I would also like to thank Jay for staying with the company during my transition into the CEO role.
He has been very helpful to me and I know the whole team wishes him the best of luck as he leaves to seek a new senior leadership position outside Newell Rubbermaid.
Coincident with the group consolidation we will also rationalize our GBU architecture with the total number of GBUs contracting from 13 to 9.
The details of these changes will be announced over the coming weeks once the final appointments have been made.
Given the challenges on our Baby &amp; Parenting business I've made the decision to make a leadership change on that business.
Christie Juster currently President of the Decor GBU will assume responsibility for the Baby &amp; Parenting business effective November 15.
I plan on personally working directly with Christie and the Baby &amp; Parenting GBU to ensure a smooth transition and perhaps more importantly ensure that we unlock the value and growth opportunities in this business.
In addition to the redesign of the operating groups and the realignment of the GBUs we will invest to strengthen the cost of [ph] our development capabilities in our new Newell consumer group.
Paul Bointman currently President Global Sales Operations will be appointed Chief Customer Development Officer leading our customer development function globally reporting to me.
Paul will also serve as a key member of the Newell consumer group Executive leadership team with accountability for the North American customer development organization.
In this role he will report to Penny McIntyre and have specific accountability for all of the North American Newell consumer group customer development teams.
This is one of the key areas where we will have opportunity to invest to strengthen our capabilities.
The goal will be to build a capability of equal stature to our North American marketing and innovation teams.
Additionally consistent with my desire to deploy resources primarily against ideas that drive organic growth we will scale back our corporate development organization.
While there will be an important role for mergers and acquisitions in the near term M&amp;A will not feature as highly on the agenda as it has in the past.
Of course we will seek bolt-on acquisitions that support our business strategies but these choices will have to compete for capital with other very clear value creation options.
In that context we will scale back the current team and integrate key members of the corporate development organization into the finance organization.
Buddy Blaha currently President Corporate Development will be leaving the company effective January 1 2012.
I want to thank Buddy for his significant service to Newell Rubbermaid.
We will complete Project Renewal by the end of 2012 with the organization redesign of our groups and GBUs completed over the next few months.
As we communicated in our press release we will incur restructuring charges of approximately $90 million to $100 million and generate savings of like amount.
We expect to generate all of the savings no later than the end of Q1 2013.
Most of the costs that we take out of the organization will be invested back into the business in 2012 for accelerated performance into 2013.
This new operating alignment will better enable resource deployment against our most strategic businesses and geographies and ultimately result in accelerated growth improved profitability and strengthened capabilities.
I'm very cognizant of the potential distractions that a changed agenda like this can create.
I've  executed programs like this multiple times in my career and I never take the challenges lightly.
I will stay personally very involved in the execution that will lead the organization through this period of change being true to our values and treating those impacted in a professional and fair manner.
I'm convinced that this is something we need to do now in order to set the stage for accelerated performance in the near future.
I'm confident that we'll generate the savings quickly and in turn invest the majority of those savings back into the business for profitable sustainable growth.
We will emerge better positioned to effectively commercialize our products and innovation.
More completely deploy our portfolio across our existing geographic footprint and more aggressively expand into the faster growing emerging markets.
We're building a more focused stronger and nimbler organization that will be better built for profitable growth.
With that we're happy to answer any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Wendy Nicholson at Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> My question has to do with Project Renewal and the fact that it's happening concurrently at -- or at the tail end of the Western European restructuring.
Does that make for more opportunity? Is there a risk that it sort of conflates challenges or problems? And how do we know that there isn't going to be sort of the Project Renewal version 2.0 come 2013? Or how committed are you to getting out of the restructuring mentality? Well hopefully -- Wendy first of all thanks for the question I think it's an excellent question.
There's 2 things I'd like to say in response.
First of all one of the things that I wanted to make sure we didn't do with this -- with Project Renewal is potentially burden anything that's going on in Europe with another change agenda overlaid on top of it.
So there's virtually no interception between renewal and the European transformation program and acted -- and our folks in Europe need to be focused on execution as we move towards that April cut over date SAP cut over date.
So this program really doesn't touch Europe.
There's no real intersection.
There's  a couple of exceptions to that but in principle that's true.
So one of the things that I was looking at when I was thinking about this is whether there's any executional risks that this could create and I don't feel that that risk exists.
With respect to your other question which is really certainly something that's come up and I know there's a point of view out there about us as a serial restructurer.
And I accept that that's one of the potential headlines that'll flow from this choice.
It's the same old Newell restructuring its way to success.
That's in my mind -- look I can't look backwards I can only look forward.
And as the guy looking at this business right now I can tell you that the structural SG&amp;A costs are too high and given our ambition to accelerate the growth performance of this company and given our ambition to build out the geographic footprint of this business over time we need to do this.
Am I going to sit here today and tell you we'll never have a restructuring program again? No I'm not going to say that.
Do I envision when we need to do one anytime soon? Gosh no.
I want to get this done get it reset and get the organization focused on executing our agenda and building this business.
I hope you feel from my comments whether it's been in our first call in July or whether it's been some of the external conversations I've had that you understand that we're moving from the phase of transformation into the phase that's grounded in a growth story.
This is simply a set of actions that are designed to unlock that growth potential.
We've got trapped capacity for growth in our structural SG&amp;A costs.
And I've said this externally I'll say it again.
My point of view coming into the job and I've had this view from the board seat I had is that we were too complex an organization for the size of company that we are.
And so I'm simply coming in making the choices that I think need to be made liberating that trapped capacity for growth which I think we're really going to need in the short term.
Because we're operating in slow to no growth markets.
And in that environment when people have to build share in order to grow their business the cost of growth has risks going up.
I think we really need this money in order to deliver even our short-term commitments but certainly our long-term ambition to accelerate it to the long-term guidance range.
So I can't rewrite history.
I can only look forward and I can tell you this is an important choice to make now.
I won't stand in front of you and say never.
I won't take that bait.
But it's certainly not in my frame of reference.
I've tried to go as broad and as comprehensively and as fast as possible to sort of rip off the Band-Aid and get this done so that we can get on with focusing on delivery.
Research Division</strong> Well it sounds fantastic to me but I just had a quick follow-up for Juan.
I think you said you'd reach your target capital structure by the end of next year but is there a chance we could see a bump in the dividend before then or would you wait till back half of next year for news on that front? Well we're feeling very comfortable really with the way we're progressing strengthening the balance sheet.
As you know I said it's the board's discretion to increase the dividend.
We increased it 60% this year and there should be room because we said we have a goal of reaching 30% to 35% payout in ratio.
We still have plenty of room to increase dividends.
The next question comes from Lauren Lieberman of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I Just wanted to follow-up on the restructuring dollars being reinvested both to support long-term growth but also to kind of enable delivery in a tough environment next year.
Is your thought process that the reinvestment will keep pace with the savings? Or is there a chance that reinvestment runs faster than the savings come through? No.
I mean I'm just -- I'm more conservative than that so I wouldn't put the money down until I was really clear I had it in my pocket.
So I think I'm going to be very careful about that.
I'm not going to lean into the spending.
I think we also have to make sure we're really decisive and sharp in the choices we make.
So we're not going to sort of spread that money out like you would a peanut butter and jelly sandwiches.
No way we're going to take a knife and spread it democratically.
So I want to put it into very specific things that I think are both offer near-term opportunities but also set the stage for the future.
And we'll find the right balance Lauren.
I mean I'm not going to get into the details today because I really want to bring the organization through the change that we're making.
It's a pretty impactful one.
It affects a lot of people both in this building and in other buildings around it in the U.S.
primarily.
I want to get through that phase before I disclose how we want to spend the money back and with what cadence? But we're going to be very careful about how we do this.
We have to watch the gross margins.
Obviously the inflation was higher than we thought it would be and we're going to have to make sure we're getting the right productivity against that and the right pricing.
And until we make sure we got a very locked in and locked down perspective on that I'd be reluctant to pull too much money in.
The next question comes from Jason Gere at RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just sticking to the gross margin topic I guess one just with some of the manufacturing consolidation I just wanted to make sure talk about your comfort level because I know you're still doing the SAP rollout globally.
So that's just the first question.
Yes.
Let me just give you some perspective on geographic reach on this program.
While there are some things that we're doing outside the U.S.
as it relates to Project Renewal most of if not the vast majority of the changes we're talking about are going to be North American focused.
And so in North America we've rolled out SAP.
That's behind us with the Decor transition which occurred in August of this year.
So I don't think there's a risk associated with the SAP cut over and Project Renewal.
We've been very careful to make sure that we kept this program away from any other change work we're doing.
Because as you know you don't get the value out unless you execute it brilliantly.
So execution's everything with these programs.
And so we've created the right space and breaks between the 2 initiatives.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just thinking about the gross margins and Juan talking about the fourth quarter seeing a nice step up obviously to kind of fall into the range.
As we think about next year it seems like SG&amp;A will probably be more in line with this year's levels and some of the savings that comes through to Project Renewal reinvested.
But if I look at all the kind of the puts and takes we should see stronger gross margin next year productivity pricing the European savings.
I was just wondering if and I know you guys are still in the budgetary process but I was just wondering is the thinking right that gross margin it should be pretty meaningful and more or less in line with maybe some of the historical levels to kind of drive some of that reinvestment that you need on the SG&amp;A side? Yes.
That's right Jason.
It is fair to assume that our gross margins should continue to expand next year.
Part of Project Renewal involves some manufacturing.
There's a bit of supply chain that will have a positive impact on gross margin.
And we should continue to benefit from pricing take in on the second half of this year and a fairly robust list of productivity projects that we're going into the year with.
Yes.
Jason this is Mike.
I mean the one thing I'd say is we really need to make sure that we continue to drive gross margin forward.
I won't get into the details or any of the moving parts in the very near term.
But strategically it's critical that we move gross margin forward.
It's the lifeblood of any consumer goods business year in year out.
At the same time work hard to get those SG&amp;A rebalanced so that the SG&amp;A is focused on the things that create demand and less on the administrative side.
And those 2 drivers within the P&amp;L are the things that are going to create the upward momentum in our growth rates.
And so we have to have the same energy that we've always had with respect to gross margin improvement.
It'll become tougher to do that overtime than it has historically been historically been the last 5 years because once we get through these last bits of manufacturing and distribution system the stripping out the excess capacity and therefore removing the burden of that fixed cost on the gross margins.
We'll have to improve gross margin the old-fashioned way which is through productivity and through strategic pricing through mix and through margin accretive innovation it will have the benefit of some of the structural changes.
But it has to be front and center.
Every one of our business leaders knows that and we're going to -- even in tough times like we're in now with the kind of inflation we've got and with high unemployment limited pricing capability in a flat markets competitive situations we still have to remain vigilant and committed to driving that number forward.
And I don't see any barriers to us being able to do that.
It just may be that the type of gross margin progression we get year in and year out is different from what we saw over the prior 5 years.
And we'll have to deal with that by doing some of the other things we're suggesting we need to do.
The next question comes from Mark Rupe at Longbow Research.
Michael on the 13 to 9 in the GBUs is it fair to assume that you're happy with the current kind of brand portfolio you have now? Does it roll out any potential rationalization of any business unit? Look we have the portfolio we have and I'm happy with the brands we've got.
If you listen to the conversation about the brand growth rates we've got some nice momentum.
That said we've said publicly and I'll say it again here there's probably 1 or 2 pieces of the puzzle that somebody else might be able to create better value with than we will be able to.
But we're talking small pieces of the puzzle $100 million type of pieces.
Just like  the Bernzo disposal there's 1 or 2 of those that we might consider doing.
But it's not the most pressing issue we've got out there.
Okay.
Then just I would assume that you have more GBUs on the consumer facing stuff.
So should we expect that and so more I guess work will be done there? Well look here's where we are and we'll be clear as we can be.
As soon as we work through the people side of this we're talking about a very significant change within the company and in the structure of our GBUs.
So in fairness to the folks that are impacted I didn't want to go as far as I'll be able to go in a couple of weeks with you in terms of describing what that architecture looks like because I want to help people through the change.
But once we get that done and we reset those leadership teams we'll be able to expose to you what that new structure looks like who the leaders are and why we think that the new architecture makes sense strategically.
Okay and just lastly.
One on the goodwill impairment can you remind me what the drivers behind that again? Yes the way it works is you -- every year we do an impairment test and basically it's a BCS or the business units where we think there's less cushion.
When you run the BCS you compare that with all the assets both tangible and intangible and if it falls short then if there's an impairment you have an implied goodwill.
And if it's different from what you have in the books you take the write off.
That's basically how it works.
So in the case of the baby business the underperformance kind of quarter after quarter was eating into our cushion.
When we got to this quarter it had -- the goodwill had all impaired by then.
Does that answer your question? Is that what you were looking for? [Technical Difficulty] It does answer.
The next question comes from Chris Ferrara Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So the content of reinvestment again right? So it looks like that the restructuring savings you're talking about would be something in the order of a 25% increase to strategic SG&amp;A overtime.
If you just take the basic math and assuming to your point right you're not going to spread it evenly.
It's going to be spread democratically.
I mean you're talking about some real sizable increases in investment behind some businesses right? And I guess what's your confidence level in the potential returns on that stuff like do you feel like you have a good line of sight into how responsive sales and profits will be to that sort of investment? Well we're not going to redeploy it until we do.
So let me make sure that that's perfectly clear.
We've just come through our planning cycle at least the bottoms up portion of our planning cycle.
What I asked everybody to provide me with was their tops lists their top initiatives their top productivity initiatives and also their top unfunded initiatives.
And the next phase for us will be to look at all of that in the context of a piece of strategic work we're doing to understand which portions of the portfolio we believe we should bet on most aggressively over the near term.
And it's the intersection of both the tactical opportunities in the short term and the strategic perspective that that work drives that'll inform the choices we make.
And I think you have to take a long view on some of these bets.
I think most folks wouldn't suggest that you can get a financial return in a very short window on any of these choices.
But overtime you do.
And I've said this before.
I think we have 2 jobs to be done with respect to accelerating our performance.
One is to get more where we are and the second job to be done is to extend beyond and broaden our geographic footprint in select businesses into the faster growing emerging markets.
Job one is job one because it's our first priority.
And also because I think those choices will generate a better return because you don't have to add too much fixed costs into the markets where you are today.
So if you can accelerate growth in the markets where you are you get the flow-through of gross profits last year your strategic SG&amp;A to flow to the bottom line.
And assuming that they're not tactics that these choices are investing and creating a strategic relationship a more structural relationship between the brand and consumers you get an ongoing annuity that comes from those choices which is the repurchase of the brand overtime.
The first purchase the trial the induction period you tend not to get a return on.
The annuity over time is where the money comes in.
Now I would think that we would be able to get a flow-through of benefit to the bottom line that then could be reinvested into emerging markets or flow-through back to shareholders.
But I'm not going to suggest that there's a short-term payback for any stepped-up plussed-up investment.
But overtime certainly there is in my experience.
And as long as you're not investing in tactics that you're investing in strategic opportunities and that's the work that still needs to be done.
Now I said that I wasn't going to get into the details of those choices today but I will early next year.
Once we've tied off those choices with the board and satisfied ourselves that we're getting a payback in the broadest sense a payback for the money that we've plussed into those either businesses or capabilities.
So Chris I know I'm sort of doing the kabuki dance on you a bit but it's because first of all I don't have all the answers yet for where the money will go.
And secondly I don't think there is a short-term return from a traditional sense return on investment ROI type of financial return on investment that you can ever justify from an investment in the quarter or in the 6-month window into a choice we might invest behind.
But overtime there certainly is.
And we'll lay that out as best as we can without disclosing things that would create competitive issues for us.
But we're not going to do that probably until sometime in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> My question was what I was really trying to get at also is what the potential is for some of this to drop down because you just don't have room yet to reinvest at this sort of rate.
Look the interesting thing now is as you put money into strategic SG&amp;A as opposed to have it tied up in structural costs if it doesn't work you can always flow back right? You can always just pull it out.
So you have way more flexibility with your money and strategic SG&amp;A than you do having it tied up from structural SG&amp;A.
So I think we have just so much more -- so many more options with respect to how we use this money in this context than we did just a few days ago.
And we're going to be really smart about how we manage this.
You have to be rigorous in the analysis so I hear you guys loud and clear.
That's what you're asking us.
We don't just throw money at it.
We'll make the right choices and we'll bring you along as we do that in the appropriate way.
The next question comes from Connie Maneaty at BMO Capital Markets.
A couple of quick questions.
Just to put some dimension on a couple of the changes what percentage of your SG&amp;A is structural versus strategic? And then as you split reorganize the company into consumer and professional could you give us a split on sales and operating profit and margin on the new configuration? We're not going to do the second part of your question today I don't think.
But we'll have that shortly so you get a sense for that.
But on the first part of your question Connie it's roughly -- a good rule of thumb is about 40% 45% is strategic today.
And I'm not going to tell you what it will be tomorrow because we haven't really worked through all of that.
I have a follow-up question on why the cost of delivering growth should be rising? It just seems that the environment has been rough for maybe the last 3 or 4 years not just right now.
So what has changed especially if the gross margin should be expanding next year? I mean for many of Newell's category growth has come primarily from gaining market share.
So what's really changed? Well I think the market dynamics are a little bit worse today than they were a year ago for sure.
And you've got 2 consecutive years of flat to no growth markets.
So what happens is in that environment you've got the intensity of competition picks up and people who don't have strategic things to bring to market have to fight on price.
You saw a bit of that in the back-to-school window particularly in the Everyday Writing business where some of our competitors really had to push the price points down.
And so we're -- and Connie it increases the importance of whatever you're bringing strategically to market.
You have to make sure you're supporting that properly.
And then occasionally you need to protect your flank from a pricing perspective.
So that would be my answer to your question.
How do you think of the balance of market share gains at -- would you rather gain market share at lower margins or is profitability overall more important? I want to grow our business profitably I guess is how I would answer that question.
It's not one or the other I want both.
And I certainly don't want short-term growth that doesn't stick.
That's not useful.
So I think -- I said this the last time we talked.
What our marketers need to be thinking about is about developing their markets.
They of course want to do that through our -- and we will do that through our branded assets.
And so what I want them thinking about is expanding the size of the pie and leveraging our brands to do it.
Now we should build market share when we do that.
If you do that you have a good chance of both expanding gross margin and accelerating growth.
If you don't do that then it's tough to expand gross margin and deliver the growth.
And so market development becomes the mandate for our marketers.
I'm not interested in share shifting between us and the competitors.
That's a road to nowhere.
What I'm interested in is bringing more strategic initiatives to market that expand the relevance of the categories.
That's what our retailers want anyway.
They want us to build their business not simply steal the other guys' market share so that they get more revenue per linear inch and they get a return on invested capital.
And that's what we should want because if we expand our markets we end up not having to apply tactics to grow.
And it's those tactics that end up compressing gross margin.
So market development's the key to avoiding the trap that you described upfront in your question.
Connie I sort of fumbled a number with you.
You asked a question on SG&amp;A the balance of strategic SG&amp;A to total SG&amp;A and I had it inverted.
So it's about 60% as opposed to 40% to 45%.
It's the other way around.
It's 55% to 60%.
55% to 60% is what you think...
Yes yes.
The next question comes from Ann Gilpin at Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I kind of wanted to follow-up a little bit on the gross margin question.
What really surprised you on the gross margin line this quarter? Was it the inflation or did you decide to do more promotions than you initially planned? And can you also talk about that in the context of your Q4 expectations? Well look I mean the headline on gross margin -- I'll give you the facts on gross margin.
We had inflation built into our gross margin forecast.
Not quite as much has actually occurred.
So we got more than we thought we were going to get in a couple of areas.
And one of them I think is just a timing issue where markets will break.
But because we don't buy the primary commodity the commodity we've got or the input -- the raw material we have is a derivative of that commodity.
It's simply a timing issue.
So we anticipate it getting in more of a benefit faster into the P&amp;L than we did.
The other is that as I mentioned in my comments we had 3 businesses where things were a little bit more heated in terms of promotional requirements and again the way to really get yourself in trouble from a gross margin perspective long term is to not win those competitive battles.
So in Everyday Writing and Rubbermaid Consumer and Rubbermaid Commercial we had to deploy a little bit more promotional investment than we really thought we would have to in the quarter in order to deliver the outcomes we wanted.
I don't love it and I wouldn't lead it but if that's what it's going to take to hold your share position then you have to do it because market share is critical to the success of our business.
And if I have to play defense in order to preserve the right to go on offense at a later date that's what I'll do.
And that's what I said in my comments and I know you guys don't probably like it that much but it is what it is and that's what you have to do when you're running a business.
Market share is the key thing.
Now Connie's question just a second ago is at the heart of it.
If we have to use tactics too often to hold the share that's not a good thing.
So it puts more pressure into the marketing community deliver ideas that are going to expand the market because there are better ideas that either bring a new benefit or a strategic point of difference or they connect to consumers emotionally in a more compelling way than others have in the past and therefore consumers get more involved with the category.
It puts more pressure into the system that way.
And that's why I say we have 2 towering capabilities of equal stature we're trying to build in this company.
One is a fantastic marketing and innovation machine and I got to give credit to Mark and the prior team.
They've done a good job of building that and we can do more.
But we're off to the races there.
And we need to strengthen our executional capabilities so that the powerhouse operational capability is strengthened such that when those ideas flow through the funnel they're received and amplified with customers and consumers in a really compelling way.
It's the combination of those 2 capabilities that ensures that you get an outcome that doesn't cause you to go down that dangerous path that Connie and you Ann have described where you tactic your way to success.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just ask kind of a high-level question Mike I think you've commented that the long-term 3% to 5% core sales growth target might not be reached in 2012 given some of the macro headwinds.
You're guiding 1% to 3% this year and looking at the past couple of years 2010 and '09 combined looks to be maybe negative.
Does the 3% to 5% long-term target still hold water or do you think that maybe needs to come down given the macro environment and sort of the slow elongated recovery here? How should we kind of think about the long-term core sales growth number? It's an excellent question Ann.
The work that we're doing now to that I referred to earlier about strategic choices and the disciplined approach to resource allocation will inform the answer to your question.
I don't think -- I hope there's a path right into our strategic guidance range but I just don't know yet our long-term guidance range.
My instincts tell me there are in the short term.
I've said what I said at the Barclays conference and I said what I said today which is our core growth of 3.3% in the third quarter and our EPS growth of 7.1% are good reference points.
I think those are and I'm not saying I'm not guiding to those numbers because there's always going to be a range around them.
But I think they're good reference points for now.
We had good share results in Q3 and that enabled that outcome.
It'll take some help from a category growth perspective so the tailwinds that I referred to and obviously Project Renewal to get us into that -- to free up the resources to be able to invest to get us into that range.
But I'd rather not declare at this point my perspective on long-term guidance.
I think we need to do the work the right way which we're doing we're talking to the board about it on the week after next and we have another board meeting in February.
And we'll probably -- it's a work in progress.
We'll probably engage with the board in both meetings on that subject and then we'll talk to you roughly around that timeframe both the strategic path forward and our view on long-term guidance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just ask a clarification question obviously Baby &amp; Parenting improved nicely and sequentially.
It sounds like some of that was shipment.
Did you say that sell-through also improved sequentially or is that still -- has that improved or not? We're getting the sell-through we expected on these things.
I would love to get more.
And what I said was that we have a strengthened promotional plan in the back half of the year.
I want to see how that impacts the trial on these products.
Look I'm not sitting here and telling you that we've got these things stabilized yet.
Our results our business in Japan is on fire.
So the Aprica business in Japan is something to get very excited about.
But it's a small portion of the overall Baby &amp; Parenting businesses.
The business was flattered in the third quarter by the pipeline the sell-in of new products.
And it's just a little premature to know whether those guys have all got the traction we want them to have.
But even if they did that's not the answer for us.
I think we have a more fundamental sort of strategic questions that need to be answered on this business which I laid out.
And I can tell you Christie Juster whose coming to lead this business is an excellent leader.
And I'm really certain that she with my direct involvement and with the support of a number of people that have Baby &amp; Parenting experience in the organization at senior levels will be able to figure this out.
There are some really sticky issues in there that I also spoke to that could govern the rate with which we're able to turn this thing around.
But strategically this should be one of our most interesting businesses.
7 billion people in the world going to 9 billion.
If you look at the demographic profile of people in the emerging markets they're all young they're all having kids and governments are getting involved to ensure that children are taken care of in the proper way.
For example there's no car seat legislation in China yet.
So there's no requirement for kids to be in car seats there.
So figuring out how to participate in what is bound to be terrific category expansion over the next decade and this category is really important but we have to be able to create value while we participate and that's -- obviously we haven't over the last period of time.
That's why we took the impairment charge we did on Baby &amp; Parenting.
And so we can stabilize this.
We can probably get it back to growth but we have a set of strategic answers that need to be articulated about what we want to do over the next decade in this business and how we do it.
And that's where I need to be involved.
That's where Christie will play a critical role.
And that's where I'll tap into all the expertise that sits in around my table to help answer those questions.
The next question comes from Bill Schmitz at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I think we talked about a lot of those sort of long-term structural stuff.
Did you guys decide on what you think the right dividend payout ratio is for this business? Yes we want to have a competitive dividend payout ratio.
How we get there from here is a question mark.
And actually the board is the one that is going to make that call.
But we simply want to try to get our dividend payout ratio closer to 30%.
Research Division</strong> Okay I get it.
I think the competitors are closer to like 40% to 45% though.
That's okay.
That's their choice.
Research Division</strong> You said competitive.
Yes.
I am competitive on multiple fronts [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> How about hedging going into next year? Because I'm sure it's not loss on you guys but the first quarter gross margin comp is obviously pretty difficult.
Is there anything we should be mindful of just as we kind of build the models for next year? Hedging.
We typically buy forward metals.
In the case of resin we go a little shorter because there's really no ability to hedge.
About 3 months is about the best you can do.
So we have some visibility there.
In terms of the Q1 you're right about the comps.
Remember that the year before we had unusual overhead absorption in Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
That's helpful.
Just on the European front is Europe going to make money this year? Because I know there's kind of a qualitative 10% but are you guys making progress on that front? We're actually making very good progress Bill.
We feel -- remember that when we talked about the Europe transformation there were 2 big buckets.
There were the operating income improvements and we said our goal was to get to 10%.
And then there's the tax benefits from the EPC structure.
On the OI benefits they have been coming in.
But the end of -- year-to-date Q3 Our OI in Europe will be 10%.
That compares with 8% in the previous year and less than 2% in 2009.
So the benefits are coming through there.
Once we get the EPC and the SAP system implemented in Europe in April of next year then the tax benefits also begin to accrue.
So I think we're making very good progress there.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I know you don't want to talk about customers but I think it's going to be in the 10-Q.
Can you just talk about what Wal-Mart was as a percentage of the sales of this year versus last year? Yes.
It was 12.5% Bill.
And it was down a point versus prior year.
So 13.5% in the year-ago period.
Research Division</strong> Okay but that's getting sequentially better.
I mean just broadly speaking did you have relationships getting better it was never really impaired? No.
Gosh no.
I mean we -- look Wal-Mart's absolutely a critical customer as are all our other customers.
One of the things Bill that I talked about when I was mentioning capabilities was we need to strengthen this area in our North American business.
And I've always had a philosophy that you need to collaborate your way to great performance.
And I believe that's right.
And you need to look at value creation across the total enterprise not just where our business system stops.
And it's through those types of partnerships that you get the differential treatment in the relationship.
And we've got a ways to go to build that but I'm confident we will.
And having had experience doing that in other roles I'm pretty convinced that we've got a path forward there that will strengthen our connections.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last one if I could.
Have you shared with the category captains at the -- I'm sorry the buyers the various retailers the plan to invest more money into the categories yet? Or is that still on to come? No.
We have not shared that in part because we haven't made the choices about where we're going to deploy it.
But that's all in front of us.
The next question comes from Bill Chappell at SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just want to parse through the revenue guidance comment you made of saying the mid-to-high end of your long-term range is probably going to be more of a challenge for next year.
Is that just an easier way to say 1% to 3% is kind of our goal? Well I'd be disappointed on 1% to 3%.
So we just delivered -- what I said though was a good reference point is what we've just delivered in Q3.
And so again I haven't given specific guidance.
But yes if we were at 1% core sales growth we'd be having pizza for dinner every night.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With that -- I mean as you look at the Baby &amp; Parenting I mean I know you're doing a lot to kind of change that business but as you look to next year do you think the category can rebound or is it one where we're kind of flatlining for a while? Look it depends on the macros.
I mean I think that's the biggest issue.
You look at birth rates in Europe.
You look at birth rates here.
It's just they just haven't recovered.
Do we see the negative impacts if birth rate declines further? At this point no.
But we don't see some major recovery.
And I think that has to do with the macro environment we're in.
It's just going to be tough for a while.
And it's good to see what's going on in Europe.
I think that averts a crisis but actually doesn't deal with the fundamental issue of jobs and economic growth and neither have we here in the U.S.
And until we turn that corner I think the structural headwinds we've got are going to be with us.
That's why I say that we're going to be living with slow to no growth markets next year.
I think that's the right planning assumption to make because I don't see the catalyst to change.
And that puts an increased burden on our marketing and selling capabilities and that's what we're trying to address through renewal.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one.
Just trying to understand kind of the SG&amp;A going into next year.
I mean with a lot of the projects costs or savings being headcount reduction I would imagine by kind of January 1 you're going to see a fair amount of savings.
So should we see SG&amp;A kind of as a -- be lower than average in the first half of the year and then ramp up as you finally reinvest that business? Or should it be steady? And I would think it's a big drop until you really decide where you're going to redeploy it.
Give us the chance to work through the numbers Bill because we're still trying to figure out where are the right investments what is the timing? But you're right about 70% of the savings are people related.
So they should come in fairly fast.
But just give us time to work through our budget.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You're not going to give me a...
We've got some interesting things we're doing in the first quarter that I think will benefit from some increased support.
But I can't remember who asked the question about making sure you're disciplined about getting a return on it.
I want to go through that before I declare Bill.
And that's -- we've been working hard to get to this point to make the choices on the design of the organization to make the choices on who to put in the key roles and we got another week of communication and appointment work to go on.
And then we're going to -- I want the new leaders in those jobs to make their pitches and choices.
And we'll -- so we have a month to work here.
I've said we're going to be a little bit more interventionist from the corporate perspective and not just let this company be the sum of the parts and the motivation being trying to make the whole greater than sum of the parts.
So there are clearly some things that I think we should put money behind in the first quarter.
But will we go for broke? No I really want to see how the gross margin story plays out.
The next question comes from Joe Altobello at Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> We've covered a lot of ground here this morning so I'll just keep it brief maybe a couple of ones here.
First on Baby &amp; Parenting if you put aside the pipeline sale given what you've seen over the last 3 months with Century by Graco with Aprica are you more or less hopeful that that business could actually grow next year? Well Joe I mean we certainly have easy comps in the first part of next year.
But if we were to grow in the first part of next year I wouldn't be all flush and proud.
We should grow in the first part of next year.
I really am more concerned about strategically how we build this business over time.
And I think it is a little bit longer to get our European business moving in the right direction.
We've got some innovations that are flowing in to the business at the end of 2012 that will participate in some really important growth opportunities there.
The challenge here is that it's an awful long lead time to do real breakout innovation in this category from concept to market is a fairly long period of time.
So I'm not going to tell you what we're going to do next year in this business.
We should be able to grow this business unless something else dramatically happens.
But again I wouldn't -- I think we're going to be talking about Baby &amp; Parenting virtually every one of our calls for the next number of quarters probably into 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just secondly on some background on Project Renewal is there something that was in the works prior to your arrival Mike? Or is this something that came about the last 3 months? And I guess the reason I'm asking is because this has been something that has been an issue at Newell for years now in terms of the whole structural SG&amp;A and trying to eat away at that.
So did you guys feel like the organization had to be at a certain place to do this? Look I'm glad we have the growth and we've gotten back into this cadence of delivering Q3 because we had confidence that the organization understands what we need to do and can deal with -- change management is always a challenge.
So it gave me the -- when I saw that coming in it gave me the confidence that we could move fast.
Obviously I just finished my third month so obviously these choices are occurring very fast.
The thing you got to remember is I had the benefit of sitting on the board for 2 years from November 2009 before becoming the CEO.
So it's not all new to me.
And some of these things were things that I've been thinking about before coming into the role.
So it's not -- I think this is a very well thought through set of choices and it's obvious to me that we need to attack the structural costs because we're not going to get the 100 200 basis point gross margin improvement year in and year out that we got through the 2005 to 2010 period that came through stripping out excess capacity in the manufacturing and distribution network.
We have this one last bit of work to do there.
And then like I said we've got to deliver gross margin the old-fashioned way and that's tougher.
And so you can't expect that going forward you'd get 200 basis points here in gross margin improvement.
So if you don't believe you're going to get that then you have to go after the structural SG&amp;A in order to have the strategic SG&amp;A you think you need to accelerate performance.
And that was the framework and the logic for the choices we've made the business case for the choices we've made.
The design itself and the people choices Jay's decision to pursue a big job on the outside.
Jay's choice is an enabler to this and the specific design is something that's come together over the last 3 months.
That was not something I walked in with a point of view on.
The next question comes from Dara Mohsenian at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Juan I wanted to get some more clarity on the pricing you took in the quarter.
It sounded like promotion was heavier than you expected.
But I was hoping for commentary on if list pricing was implemented as you expected and where the consumer demand the elasticity the higher pricing came in versus what you had forecast.
I'll talk to the numbers and then I'll let Mike jump in with the qualitative aspects.
In terms of the pricing we actually got a little bit more pricing than we were expecting.
Pricing read through in the quarter.
Actually on the gross margin side it added 120 basis points.
Now when we talk about promotion it's not necessarily price soft so it's not necessarily pricing.
It's also how you feature what you feature.
So promotion has an impact on mix.
In the case of back-to-school a lot of the pressure that we're talking about really came through mix as consumers made and retailers also chose to display the products that had the lower price points and consumer gravitated towards those.
On the question regarding price volume mix and I think that the specific category that we talked about in Q3 is Rubbermaid Consumer.
We're just getting into that window now where we'd start to see repeat purchase.
This is a different purchase cycle than the businesses I've come from where you get a purchase every 5 -- 4 or 5 weeks.
They're high velocity categories.
This one is not so much.
You maybe get 2 purchases annually 2 to 3 purchases annually.
So you don't get as quick a read on the volume price impact.
We'll get that in the fourth quarter on Rubbermaid Consumer.
But where we see competitors moving their price we're dealing with that.
And we deal with it through tactics or we deal with it through better display programs.
As Juan was suggesting it's not always price.
But it's a little early to declare whether we've got the price volume numbers called right.
That said Rubbermaid Consumer came in right where we thought they would in the quarter in aggregate.
Research Division</strong> And Juan can you give us your full year tax rate expectation also? It should be 28% normalized tax rate for the full year.
Our next question comes from Linda Bolton-Weiser at Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can I just ask -- I noticed there's been a lot of questions about the Baby &amp; Parenting business but I also follow Mattel and they have a baby gear business which actually has been posting pretty decent growth lately.
But they don't do strollers and car seats they do like high chairs and playpens and swings I think.
So can you like within the whole category is there something that's structurally unattractive or problematic about car seats and strollers that makes that more unattractive than some of the other areas? Because Mattel made a very specific decision at some point in time to not do car seats and strollers.
So can you just like share some of your knowledge about that if you can? Yes.
Look I think obviously our biggest businesses are Graco business.
And Graco sits right in the heart of the market from a positioning standpoint.
And this is the most economically-stressed consumer out there.
And when you're talking about car seats and strollers you're talking about big-ticket items.
And so unlike apparel or some of the gear other gears that others might sell these are big outlays.
And in that environment in the environment we are in with the brand positioned where it is in the market we have the full force of that headwind that we're having to deal with.
We're in the car seat in the stroller market.
That's our business and we're also obviously -- we've got a great playpen business.
That's where we're going to stay and develop from our path forward from.
So whether there are structural issues there or not I mean that is who we are and we're going to have to face into them.
But I'm surprised that others are optimistic given the dynamics we see and we look very closely at the category dynamics.
And while things will improve as we lap the really really tough periods.
The market trends will improve because you're up against easier comparisons.
I don't think structurally that much has changed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can I just ask you also sometimes I get the question about your company about why cash flow like the operating cash flow level is about $500 million or so these days whereas a couple of years ago in '06 '07 operating cash flow was more like $650 million? Like what is going on there in terms of your business is about the same size as it was in '06 '07 and yet it does seem like the operating cash flow level has significantly shrunk.
Yes.
Well the business is not the same size actually.
The top line is smaller than it was in '06.
When you look at cash flow as a percentage of sales you can see that it's either steady or increasing.
Actually last year was one of our higher cash flow delivery years around 10%.
It is improving.
Remember that we are investing still significant behind SAP for example.
So our cash flow delivery is strong today and I see it getting stronger in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can I just ask I missed the very beginning of the call but did you give the gross margin performance and did you say if there was an impact from inventory reduction that was reflected in the gross margin? No.
We didn't comment on inventory reductions in the gross margin.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But commodities were clearly still a negative impact...
If you look at the commodities where the impact of commodity -- of the input cost not commodities of input cost because we have sourced business in there as well.
The impact of input cost in the quarter was negative 270 basis points on gross margin.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess what I'm asking was inventory reduction a negative impact on the gross margin in the quarter? Not materially.
The reason that's true is because you have inventory reduction every third quarter.
So it's the change and the change in inventory reduction that would make an impact on gross margin.
Your final question comes from Budd Bugatch at Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations on the quarter.
The performance in the quarter and keeping the guidance in the face of the macro.
And I do have other questions but I'll address them off-line because the call has lasted too long.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Thanks again for joining us today.
Let me close by reiterating that we're very pleased with the progress we're making and the sequential improvement in the financial results during the quarter and excited -- I remain very excited about and energized by the opportunities we have.
We talked a lot today about what we've got to do and I'm certain there will be bumps along the way.
But I'm clear that there's a path towards a bigger faster growing more global more profitable company.
And I'm committed to getting us there.
So look forward to keeping you updated along the way.
Thanks everybody and thanks for the questions.
Talk soon.
If we were unable to get to your questions during this call please call Newell Rubbermaid Investor Relations at (770) 418-7075.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (412) 317-0088 with an access code of 10005541 starting 2 hours following the conclusion of today's call and ending November 13.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations home page under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Great thank you.
Welcome everybody to Newell Rubbermaid's Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
On the call with me today are Mike Polk Newell Rubbermaid's President and CEO; and Juan Figuereo Executive Vice President and CFO.
We have a couple of administrative items before we begin.
First during the call today we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including but not limited to normalized results and outlooks.
We present this non-GAAP information for comparative purposes because management believes providing insights on these measures enables investors to better understand and analyze our ongoing results of operations.
For further information on reconciliations to comparable financial measures under GAAP please see our earnings release on the Investor Relations area of our website as well as in our filings with the SEC.
Please recognize that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from management's current expectations and plans.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Please review the cautionary statements in the earnings release in our most recent 10-Q.
And now with that let me turn it over to Mike Polk for his comments.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
My objective today is twofold.
First I'll review our fourth quarter and full year results and share some observations about our performance.
Second I'll explain our thinking about 2012 and provide guidance for the year.
Let's get into the results.
We posted a solid Q4 delivering 3.7% core sales growth.
Q4 was the strongest quarter of the year driving second half core sales growth to 3.5% and full year core growth to 1.8% versus our guidance range of 1% to 3%.
Reported sales in Q4 were also up 3.7% resulting in full year reported sales growth of 3.6%.
Q4 normalized EPS was $0.40 resulting in a full year normalized EPS of $1.59 up 6% versus prior year and in the middle of our guidance range of $1.55 to $1.62.
While our effective tax rate was substantially higher than prior year in Q4 we did benefit from a better rate than expected.
This benefit was driven by improved European profitability which enabled us to access more NOLs than we had anticipated.
In Q4 we delivered 150 basis points of operating margin expansion driven by tough discretionary cost discipline the very early impact of Project Renewal and favorable management incentive costs.
We achieved this result despite gross margin being down 10 basis points versus prior year.
Importantly we generated strong cash flow of $561 million in 2011 at the high end of our guidance range of $520 million to $560 million.
Our solid cash flow enabled us to pay down $183 million of debt in 2011.
And as a result our strengthened balance sheet has taken another step toward our target leverage ratios.
We also used just over $46 million to buy back 3.4 million shares in 2011 a little more than 1% of our float at an average share price of $13.72.
In Q4 all 3 operating groups grew reported and core sales.
Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products had another strong quarter with reported sales up 7.7% and core sales up 8.0%.
Office Products delivered reported sales growth of 3.7% with core sales up 3.8%.
Home &amp; Family delivered reported sales growth of 1.2% with core sales up 0.9%.
In Q4 10 of our 13 global business units grew core sales 4 of the 13 grew core sales greater than 5% and 3 grew core sales greater than 10%.
Baby &amp; Parenting delivered core sales growth of 4.5% in Q4 and close to 2% in the second half of 2011 as a result of very strong growth of Aprica in Asia and progress towards stabilizing Graco in North America.
While there's more work to be done here this is a step in the right direction.
In 2011 our top 14 brands delivered 4.9% reported growth with the best absolute contributions coming from IRWIN Lenox Rubbermaid Commercial and Aprica.
Together these 4 brands grew reported sales over 11%.
In the emerging markets core sales grew over 10% in Q4 with double-digit core sales growth in most of the major emerging market countries.
Our Q4 core sales growth was 2.5% in the developed world with strong growth in Japan and solid results in North America partially offset by a decline in Western Europe.
Our key growth initiatives are yielding the results we expect.
Industrial Products &amp; Services achieved their eighth consecutive quarter of double-digit core growth behind strengthened selling capabilities in the emerging markets and the successful launch of our Speed Slot Hole Saw.
Parker Ingenuity has been successfully launched into 11 countries now to positive critical acclaim and terrific sell-through particularly in Asia and via e-tailers in North America.
IRWIN delivered strong growth as a result of our new GrooveLock Pliers and levels and measuring launches.
Paper Mate InkJoy has been launched into virtually all countries where Paper Mate is sold with the bulk of the marketing support still to come.
Rubbermaid Medical increased revenues over 80% as we continue to scale this brand.
Sharpie and Paper Mate were successfully launched in Brazil and are making good early progress.
And as mentioned Aprica had a terrific second half in Asia as virtually every new item we've launched exceeded expectations.
Aprica Asia had Q4 core sales growth of over 20%.
And Calphalon had an excellent year behind the expansion of kitchen electrics the new bronze contemporary nonstick line and the distribution win at J.C.
Penney.
On the cost side our efforts to unlock the Kraft capacity for growth are also progressing well.
Project Renewal is up and running.
We've reset my top team.
Our new group in GBU architecture was announced in November and the North American restructuring is well underway.
We're strengthening the U.S.
selling organization and our consumer-facing businesses deploying integrated cross-functional customer and channel teams in the U.S.
And we've announced that we will close our Rubbermaid Consumer factory in Greenville Texas and consolidate production in our Winfield Kansas and Mogadore Ohio factories.
There've been many people impacted by these decisions and I'd once again like to thank all of our employees for how professionally they're leading through change.
On the other side of the Atlantic we're moving rapidly toward the April 2012 SAP and European principal company cutover.
I spent time with the transition team 2 weeks ago in the U.K.
outside of Newcastle and Sunderland.
They've made a tremendous amount of progress.
And while we have a lot of work still to do the team is focused and energized by the challenge.
This is by far the most comprehensive systems project we've implemented.
And while we have the finish line in sight we need to cross over a series of testing hurdles before we throw the go-live switch.
So far so good but lots to do.
Importantly despite a tougher year than planned we have the changed agenda associated with the SAP and EPC EMEA delivered slightly better than 10% operating margin in 2011 about a year ahead of our targeted delivery date and 800 basis points above the 2009 baseline.
So overall some solid results.
Before moving to 2012 guidance there are 3 subjects I'd like to discuss that could impact our results going forward: Western Europe foreign exchange and gross margin.
First Western Europe.
We generate roughly 10% of our total business in Western Europe where our core sales decline accelerated in Q4.
This slowdown was fairly widespread with the weakest performance in Southern Europe and progressively poor performance in the U.K.
Growth in the Russia Eastern Europe and Middle East businesses which get consolidated in our EMEA region remains healthy.
We expect the worsening Western European macro environment to carry forward into 2012 and affect our core sales growth rate.
We've captured this in the 2012 guidance I will share with you in a moment.
The second subject I want to discuss is foreign exchange.
Since our Q3 earnings call foreign exchange has become more challenging.
Through the first 3 quarters of 2011 we benefited from about 250 basis points of positive ForEx in our reported growth.
Since then ForEx has essentially done a full inversion.
We entered 2012 with foreign exchange on many currencies virtually back to where we were in 2010.
The recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar has caused us to temper our outlook for reported growth in EPS for 2012.
Our 2012 guidance assumes a negative 200 basis point impact on full year revenues.
The 2012 top line impact will peak in Q2 and Q3.
Our 2012 guidance also assumes the combined translation and transaction ForEx effect on EPS will be about negative $0.04 to $0.05 versus 2011.
The third subject I want to discuss is margin.
Gross margin was 37.2% in Q4.
Our gross margin in most of our businesses landed right where we expected them to be.
However our Decor GBU had a tough quarter due to an operational issue in one of their factories that impacted both growth and gross margin on our custom blinds business.
The Q4 issue relates to our Q2 decision to close our Salt Lake City custom blinds factory and consolidate production in our Ogden Utah facility roughly at the same time as our mid-Q3 SAP conversion.
In retrospect this was more change than this facility could handle at one time.
Our supply chain and business team has had all hands on deck.
And while we've made sequential improvements through the fourth quarter we may continue to feel pressure in sales and gross margin on Decor until sometime in Q2.
So some positive momentum in our business as we exit 2011 partially offset by emerging external challenges with European macros and ForEx and an execution issue in one GBU.
With that let's move to our 2012 guidance.
I'll start with top line.
We guided 2012 core sales growth to between 2% and 3% sequential improvement on our 2011 full year results but below our second half 2011 run rate.
Underpinning this guidance we expect our markets in the developed world to continue to experience slow to no growth and in the emerging markets to grow in line with GDP.
We believe we'll grow ahead of those markets and continue to build market share.
That said we assume worsening European macros continue in 2012 dampening market growth relative to 2011 and negatively impacting our core sales.
Separately we will reduce our merchandising activity in the first half of the year as we migrate our European systems to SAP and our business practices to comply with the new European principal company framework.
These 2 factors worsening macros and lower merchandising activity in the first half of 2012 will drive weaker growth renewal in Europe than in 2011.
When coupled with the Decor factory issue we believe our core sales will be in the lower half of our guidance range in the first half of 2012 and recover to the higher end of the range in the balance of the year.
On margins our guidance is for normalized operating margin to expand in 2012 by up to 20 basis points.
Inflation will have over 150 basis point negative impact on gross margins but we expect to cover this and more through pricing and productivity.
As a result we expect gross margin to increase in 2012.
We will continue to be really tight on discretionary SG&amp;A costs.
However our SG&amp;A ratio will increase slightly as we build new capabilities and strengthen our agenda.
Project Renewal savings will build through the year and we intend to reinvest the majority of those savings back into the business.
We will be tough on these investment choices focusing them on capabilities and programming that create lasting value and sustainable growth.
These investments will be back half loaded largely with some investments made in the second quarter.
By holding back the majority of the renewal reinvestment until the second half we will gain visibility into our 2012 delivery before locking the Project Renewal investments into the P&amp;L.
The combination of the core sales growth range the ForEx impacts and the normalized operating margin expansion results in the following guidance on EPS and cash flow: we expect normalized EPS to fall in the range of $1.63 to $1.69; and operating cash flow to fall in the range of $550 million to $600 million.
For those of you wondering how we get to the upside of the EPS guidance we get there if: we deliver better core growth as a result of either our growth initiatives delivering even greater impact than we planned or the macro and consumer environment being better than we expect; or we experience less ForEx headwind than we built in; or we allow more of the Project Renewal savings to flow through to EPS rather than be invested in strengthened capabilities and programming.
We cannot control the macro conditions.
The trends on ForEx in Europe are not positive and I don't see any catalysts out there that could affect those dynamics in the near term.
With respect to Project Renewal savings I've consistently taken a strategic view of these monies.
We intend to invest the majority of these funds back into the business.
How could we end in the low end of the range? The 2 most likely causes would be worse macros and/or further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
I think our guidance range is well balanced.
If I had to make a call today I'd call it in the middle of the range given that it's still very early in the year and our guidance reflects the most recent thinking.
With that I'll pass the baton to Juan so he can add some detail to the numbers.
Thanks Mike.
And good morning everyone.
Starting with our Q4 results core sales grew 3.7%.
In North America net sales and core sales grew 3.8% led by the strength of our Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products and Office Products segments both with high single-digit growth.
Sales outside North America grew 3.5% with FX having a neutral impact.
Both Latin America and APAC delivered double-digit core growth of 11.2% and 10.6% respectively while EMEA core sales declined 3.2% mainly due to the tough macro environment in Western Europe.
Gross margin was 37.2% essentially flat versus prior year but below our expectations for the quarter.
Pricing and productivity offset the input cost inflation.
Versus the prior year pricing contributed 130 basis points to margin improvement which was in line with expectations.
Raw material inflation at $23 million was a sequential improvement versus the previous 2 quarters and better than expected.
Versus expectations we were held back by operational issues mainly in our Ogden Utah facility where our Decor GBU makes custom blinds which Mike described earlier in his remarks.
I am confident we will get this business back on track and that we have the right plans in place to fix the issues but we could be into the second quarter of 2012 before they are fully behind us.
Despite the gross margin pressure we continue to invest in demand creation initiatives in focused growth areas: the Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products segment where we are showing the strongest growth trends was one of those focus areas; and support for the Paper Mate InkJoy launch and geographic expansion in the Office Products segment was another.
These investments were partly funded by $9 million decrease in structural SG&amp;A which was driven by lower incentive comp and very early Project Renewal savings.
Operating margin on a normalized basis increased 150 basis points to 11.8%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $21.2 million compared with $22.9 million in the previous year.
This improvement was due to lower debt levels.
Our normalized tax rate in the fourth quarter was 23% compared with 20.8% in the prior year quarter.
The change in the normalized year-over-year tax rate was primarily driven by the geographic mix of earnings and the timing of certain discrete items recorded in the prior year.
Our expected tax rate was more favorable than expected in the quarter.
We were able to use more foreign tax credits as well as more foreign tax operating losses than previously anticipated thanks in part to improved profitability in Europe and to our work in preparation for the 2012 go-live of SAP EPC.
We are happy to see some of these benefits start to flow through the P&amp;L earlier than anticipated.
Now let's take a look at the balance sheet.
During the quarter we generated $282 million in operating cash flow.
We used $134 million to pay down debt and return $45 million to shareholders in the form of $23.3 million in dividends and $21.7 million paid for the repurchase of 1.5 million shares.
The share repurchases during the quarter had less than $0.01 impact on normalized EPS.
We continue to make steady progress improving our working capital.
Notably we reduced inventory by 14 days from Q3 in accordance with our seasonal patterns and a little over one day from prior year levels.
This was a good outcome considering that we had to pre-build inventory at year end to support SAP EPC go-live in Europe and the Greenville plant shutdown in the U.S.
As we look back on the full year we made solid progress on a number of areas in 2011 especially in the face of very tough economic circumstances.
First we generated core sales growth of 1.8% led by our Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products segment with core growth of 6% and Office Products core sales that grew 1.5%.
The Home &amp; Family segment declined 0.8%.
Gross margin at 37.6% contracted 40 basis points as input cost inflation was more than double what we originally anticipated coming into the year and operational issues created additional pressure.
The good news is that our ability to price to offset inflation helped keep our margins in line or better than our competitor set.
Normalized earnings per share of $1.59 represented a 6% improvement over the prior year.
Operating cash flow of $561 million was strong as we continued to make steady progress reducing our working capital.
We spent $223 million in CapEx in 2011 which was higher than our guidance as our strong cash flow enabled us to accelerate certain investments in productivity and capacity.
We successfully completed our Capital Structure Optimization Plan during the first quarter.
Largely as a result of this initiative our year-over-year interest expense decreased by $32.2 million.
We increased our dividends 60% to $0.08 per share and returned an additional $46 million to our shareholders in the form of 3.4 million shares repurchased during the second half of the year.
Clearly a year of solid progress on many fronts.
Turning now to our 2012 outlook.
As Mike covered earlier we expect full year core sales growth of 2% to 3%.
We expect foreign currency translation will have a negative 200 basis point impact on sales for the year.
This assumes average exchange rates for 2012 remain around recent spot rates.
There are a couple of items worthy of note that will impact top line comparisons in 2012.
First as we prepare for the April go-live of SAP and EPC in Europe we're slowing down merchandising activities and asking some of our larger customers to pull forward orders from Q2 into Q1 so we can reduce the risk profile during the go-live period.
Our preliminary estimates for pull forward range from $15 million to $30 million.
Second our Decor GBU will be lapping the pipeline sale associated with the Q1 2011 placement of our size-in-store machines which was around $15 million in sales.
We anticipate normalized operating margin to expand by up to 20 basis points.
This guidance reflects our expectation that we will generate gross margin improvement as productivity improved product mix and pricing more than offset inflation.
We will also increase SG&amp;A spend to drive accelerated growth funded largely by gross margin expansion and reduction in structural SG&amp;A from Project Renewal.
Based on that our total SG&amp;A as a percent of sales in 2012 is likely to increase modestly.
We expect interest expense for 2012 to be slightly down as debt reduction will occur in the second half of the year.
Our effective tax rate for 2012 is projected to be essentially flat.
This expectation includes benefits from the European Transformation Plan beginning after the planned April go-live.
However the year-on-year comparison will be impacted by some of the benefits realized in Q4 2011 related in part to the work performed in preparation for this project which are not expected to recur in 2012.
We expect normalized earnings per diluted share between $1.63 and $1.69 in 2012 or about 3% to 6% growth.
This estimate assumes a $0.04 to $0.05 drag on earnings related to adverse ForEx.
The phasing of the impact is weighted heaviest in the second quarter and into the third as we compare against the weaker dollar in 2011.
We expect the EPS increase will be somewhat back half weighted.
This EPS guidance excludes between $110 million and $130 million of planned restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the European Transformation Plan and Project Renewal.
Operating cash flow is expected to be between $550 million and $600 million for the full year including $110 million to $120 million in restructuring and restructuring-related cash payments.
Capital expenditures are projected at between $200 million to $225 million.
We have $250 million in debt maturities in March of 2012 which we intend to bridge with short-term line and pay from operating cash flow in the second half of the year.
We believe our balance sheet will continue to get stronger and towards the second half of 2012 we should be coming close to our desired comfort range of 2.5x adjusted leverage ratio.
We plan to continue to repurchase shares opportunistically over the course of the 3-year share repurchase plan period.
The Board gave management discretion to be more opportunistic or more conservative depending upon the attractiveness of share repurchase versus other competing options.
Those other options include investing back into the business to fuel organic growth dividend payments further debt payments and potential small bolt-on acquisitions.
In conclusion as we enter 2012 we anticipate headwinds from continued economic uncertainty in Europe gross margin pressure in the beginning of the year as we work through our Decor operational issues and headwinds from volatile currency markets.
On the other hand our businesses are gaining momentum and we feel comfortable with our ability to manage through the challenges and opportunities ahead of us.
We're excited about our growth excited about our growth plans for 2012 and are looking forward to creating an even stronger company for our employees and shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mike.
Mike? Thanks Juan.
As most of you know and I had a chance to meet many of you over the last 6 months I'm very excited by the opportunities I see ahead for Newell Rubbermaid.
The organization is responding to our new agenda for the business.
The team is leading change while getting back into a rhythm of doing what we say we are going to do.
As I've communicated in various forums the next chapter of the Newell Rubbermaid story will be written in 3 stages: first the delivery stage.
We're in the midst of rebuilding our cadence of delivery and the credibility that comes with this; the second stage is the strategic stage.
Effectively our path forward which Project Renewal is in part designed to enable.
I'll lay out the strategic roadmap for the business on February 22 at CAGNY.
I plan to use that venue to discuss our long-term vision for the company our strategy for growth and do a deeper dive on the specific areas where we will invest to strengthen performance.
We'll spend much of 2012 into 2013 reallocating both financial and human capital to those choices and capabilities we believe are most important to our growth agenda.
We expect the payoff to come in the final stage the acceleration stage where we see a step change in performance.
We've got a lot of work to do.
We're making progress and there will no doubt some be some bumps along the way but our team sees a clear path to building Newell Rubbermaid into a bigger faster growing more profitable more global company and we're committed to getting us there.
With that let's open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get a more exact sense for the percent of savings under Project Renewal that you expect to reinvest behind the business in 2012.
Is it effectively all of it? The vast majority of it? Or is there a chunk of it which drops to the bottom line? And then more importantly what gives you the confidence that you're going to be able to earn a solid return on those investments particularly in difficult macro environment? And last just given youve such a different set of businesses and a diverse set of businesses some of which are more responsive to investment than others how do you approach allocating spending across the various segments? Dara it's a great question and it's at the heart of what we'll talk about when we get together at -- when we have the opportunity to speak at CAGNY and I'm going to start with the end of your question first.
The thing that will drive where we allocate our investments will be the strategic choices we make with respect to portfolio rolls for our different businesses.
And as I've said in other forums we have 2 jobs to be done.
We have one job to be done which is to get more growth where we are and the second job to be done is to systematically in a disciplined way deploy the portions of our portfolio that are relevant into the faster growing emerging markets.
And as we think about Project Renewal and the funds that get generated and any other savings that we can identify and there's other pots of savings out there to be tapped into that don't fall under Project Renewal.
As we think about how to reinvest that money we look at it through the lens of portfolio rolls where we want to play portions of the portfolio that we think offer the most strategic potential for growth and offer the best return and offer the best option for creating value against those 2 jobs to be done that I've discussed.
And there are different levers to be pulled in different businesses.
There are different growth levers to be pulled in different businesses.
And so the investment that we will make back into this business will happen sort of at a line item level activity-based level.
The filter we will apply is that matrix I've just described the 2 jobs to be done against the portfolio rolls.
And we'll be selective about how to deploy the money back in.
The timing of how that money flows back in is in part a function of me gaining visibility into our delivery in the first part of the year.
So I've been quite specific with my team and I think clear in the comments I just made that the vast majority of the money won't be allocated until the second half of the year although some spending will start in Q2.
The money will flow to things that create lasting value.
So I'm not going to deploy that investment into tactical things.
We'll put it into things that can get us onto our strategic agenda.
So an example of that might be investment in selling capabilities in Latin America.
Another example of that might be the development of digital capabilities and e-commerce capabilities for a number of our businesses around the world.
And so the types of investments we're going to make are ones that are positioned to create essentially an annuity for us and allow us to get on to delivering against our strategic ambition which again I'll lay out at CAGNY.
So I think that's how I would -- I'd answer the question you got.
Again I want to post the money in and I don't want to lock it into the P&amp;L until I get visibility into gross margin delivery.
We've got the Decor issue in Ogden resolved and we get a little bit more visibility into our first half performance.
It would be wrong to kind of put the money in and then have to pull it out depending on where we are from an earnings perspective.
The question you asked about how much of it flows to EPS versus capabilities and programming.
Well it's not all going into capabilities and programming but I've said the vast majority of it will.
The ability to stay true to those words will be a function of us doing what we say we're going to do in our core business plans.
And time will tell.
I look at it every day and my folks know we're all kind of watching it as it unfolds and I think I wrote an e-mail this weekend saying we're about 4.5% through the year here on January 20 and we're 4.5% of the way to our ambition.
So -- I mean you have to manage the business as an everyday thing.
Vince Lombardi said that winning's an everyday thing and he's right.
You have to have your eye on the outcome virtually every day.
And until I have greater certainty about that and greater clarity I'm not going to post the money in.
But I'm certain we will and we've modeled it obviously otherwise we wouldn't be laying it out as explicitly as we have.
And so I have confidence that the vast majority of it will be able to flow back.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> It does.
That's very helpful.
And then if I can slip one other one in.
The momentum in Tools Hardware &amp; Commercial Products is very strong this year.
Can you just break down into more granular level what's really driving that and your thoughts on how sustainable the different drivers are as we look to 2012? Look I got to tell some of my favorite businesses are Bill's businesses: the CT&amp;A group the IP&amp;S group our Rubbermaid Commercial businesses.
These are great businesses where we have differentiated propositions and differentiated capabilities.
And they are businesses that are relevant for us around the world.
I mean if you look at the emerging markets and the move from rural living to urban living and all the infrastructure build that's going on around those macro trends these are businesses that can draft on the back of these trends.
So they're strategically very important to us.
And so you see us investing behind them as a result.
They've got good margins they've got upside trajectory because they've got better macro trends in the emerging markets and so we're placing bets here.
And so that's why you see the growth sustained.
And importantly we're delivering decent growth in a tough environment even in the developed world which tells you that we've got great brands in IRWIN and Lenox and Rubbermaid Commercial and Rubbermaid Medical and great products that are differentiated versus competition.
Otherwise we wouldn't have that kind of traction.
And as a result they're doing well.
Your next question comes from Laura Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> First I just wanted to follow-up on Baby so Baby and Family.
So obviously great news that you saw some acceleration in the benefits in Asia.
But what about the traction of some of the launch activity in Graco in the U.S.? Is it kind of too soon to tell? Does it have any impact on category growth? Or is it still a little bit more of a share benefit that you're seeing? Yes.
So great question.
I wouldn't get overly excited about our performance in the second half of the year and I'm not.
I think we have a lot of work to do here and Christie's got her arms all over this now and we're making all kinds of changes to our leadership teams all around the world.
I think the most sustainable news I shared with you is the news on Aprica.
We have just a really terrific piece of momentum going on there.
And it's driven by the fundamentals.
It's great innovation.
It's a power of a strong brand in that part of the world.
And also very good leadership.
The guy who's leading that business a guy named Tom Brown is actually now moved -- has moved back to the U.S.
and Christie's actually drafted him into really tackling one of her hot spots which is Europe.
So Tom's going to move from Asia to Europe to really get his arms around that business.
But I want to be clear about where we are.
We have a lot of work to do.
We've got -- the innovations that have gone into the market in the U.S.
are doing okay and they're supported by a much stronger merchandising program which is very important to us.
Would I say to you that we've got real sustainable traction there yet? No.
I think we need to do more in North America and clearly more in Europe before we let the confetti fall from the ceiling.
I think it's going to take us 6 to 9 months to really get strategic traction in that part of the world.
So we can -- we'll bridge that time period with stronger tactics and better execution.
We're having very open dialogues with our sourcing partner which I think is encouraging and is going to lead to better impact in the marketplace.
And we've appointed a new lead on our side in R&amp;D.
Really talented young guy that I think is going to drive a more strategic approach in partnership with our supply partner into our Graco business.
But Lauren just be quite clear I mean we're going to muscle our way through the first half of the year.
We've got easier comparisons on that business so the optics will look maybe a little stronger than the fundamentals.
And I will just be crystal clear with you guys as we go and let you know where we stand.
Importantly as we go to the new segment reporting that ties to our structure you'll have better visibility into the P&amp;L and you'll be able to track it a little bit more clearly than you are today.
But irrespective of that just like I exposed our challenge on Decor to you in some detail I'll bring you along as we make progress.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I dare ask one more.
Rubbermaid Consumer last quarter you guys had said the pricing was coming in but just given the nature of how the products are going to move to retail it was too early to have much gate on volume impact.
So just any update now that's kind of 3 more months in -- 3 more months excuse me.
Yes Jeff Heoler who runs that business for us is doing a great job.
He's actually picking up the Beauty &amp; Style business and the Decor business as part of his new GBU which is -- we call Home Org &amp; Style [ph].
And that's where the Rubbermaid Consumer business will be consolidated.
Again Q4 was a good quarter for Rubbermaid Consumer.
We don't give GBU core sales numbers but I was pleased with the progress.
We made sequential progress from Q3.
And this a tough business but Jeff and his team did a really nice job and we got core growth ahead of the market in Q4.
Your next question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to reconcile a couple of things on the SG&amp;A line.
I think you said you were going to reinvest most of it or most of the savings in the back half but at the same point you're expecting full year SG&amp;A to be kind of up on a year-over-year basis and also said you're expecting earnings to be more back-end loaded.
So I'm trying to figure out -- it would seem like a big benefit in terms of lower SG&amp;A in the first half as you get these savings from the I guess sales -- I mean from the workforce reduction or don't reinvest in the back half.
So I'm trying to understand what the offsets and how I get there? Yes.
So there's a number of moving parts within SG&amp;A.
One of the most significant ones is this year because we fell well short of our targets our management incentive payouts are going to be quite low.
So when we build our business plans for '12 we got to replenish those back to par.
So that's going to be an inflow of cost into SG&amp;A.
There's also another dynamic in the 2011 numbers that you need to remember.
Remember in Q3 2011 we did a true-up of those incentives.
So you've got a one-time low number in Q3 that we've got a lapse.
So those are some sort of ins and outs that just have to do with the curiosities of one year versus another year.
Look we expect to spend the renewal money and it will largely flow back into SG&amp;A starting in the second quarter and although the vast majority is flowing back into the second half.
Our EPS flow I think the way to look at our EPS flow -- knowing that the way to look at our EPS flow is to follow our core sales growth.
So I told you that I thought core sales was going to be in the lower end of our guidance range in the first half of the year and strengthening through the back half is a function of us pulling back on merchandising in Europe as we make the SAP EPC conversion and also because the effect of European macros is most pronounced in the first half of the year.
Because this trend began in late Q3 into Q4 as the tightening in the U.K -- government's tightening in the U.K.
happened and the economy slowed down there and you saw the numbers this week in Q4.
The U.K.
was in -- had negative GDP growth and there's many out there saying that they think Europe's in recession.
I heard one this morning sort of go so far as to lead that discussion.
I don't know if that's true or not.
It's almost irrelevant.
But the majority of that impact's first half.
And so with our Decor issue to resolve with the fact that we're going to have less merchandising in the first half of the year with the fact that the European macro impact is more severe in the first half of the year our growth will be skewed still within the range but skewed to the lower end in the first half and strengthening in the second.
And that's why the EPS sort of flows that way.
It's not that material though.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up.
On the office market I mean from your vantage point we've seen it's going to bounce along the bottom for now a couple of years.
Are you seeing any room for optimism especially as we move through into the back half of 2012? On the market itself? Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the developed kind of office market.
Europe's going to be troubling in all categories so I think the office -- our office product categories in Europe I'm not particularly optimistic about.
The good news is we have good ideas flowing into Europe so I'm confident whether it's in our labeling business or whether it's in our writing business and so I'm confident that we will continue to build share and grow those businesses as best we can in a very very tough and worsening macro environment.
In North America I'm optimistic that if we get our Paper Mate brand going in the right direction given its share position in North America that we can contribute between Paper Mate and Sharpie to market development or market growth.
So I want to predict that we're able to get market growth going in the right direction in 2012.
Bill not yet but do I think we have great ideas with InkJoy with the Sharpie platform coming into this market? And do we have the kind of partnerships building? I spent a day up with Staples in Boston and I think the relationships we're building in those interfaces we can build more strategic partnerships there that help develop the market.
And we can bring insights to that.
And increasingly you should expect us to be doing that.
That should over time help unlock the market dynamic.
But there's a lot of structural issues out there so I wouldn't be too bullish about that in 2012.
But our strategic objective with our leadership position ought to be to build markets not just to drive share shifting between our competition and us.
We want to build real strategic partnerships with our customers.
We need to commit to be able to do that.
Do I think we've got all the capabilities in place to deliver against that promise today? No.
Is that the type of thing that Project Renewal might fund? Yes.
When we talk about building integrated customer and channel teams in our U.S.
selling organization what does that mean? Well it means doing just what I just described.
When will we get the benefit of that? Look I think the reality is we probably won't get the full benefit of those choices and those investments until 2013.
And so again I'd be cautious on any commitments or thoughts I might leave out there about our ability to drive the market today but I would hope over time that that's one of the things that we become more famous for with our retail partners.
Your next question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on basically the structural SG&amp;A versus the brand building SG&amp;A percentages.
I think you've given that to us in the past.
Where do you see that -- how did it wind up this year? And what is it going to be next year? What do you see? So Budd as we've said through the Q3 call and we're inferring here -- we haven't been that explicit we saw a shift this year between structural SG&amp;A -- from structural SG&amp;A to strategic SG&amp;A and brand building.
And we would expect that dynamic to play forward into 2012.
The caveat to that Budd is that when I talked about replenishing our management incentive bonuses to par versus significantly below par in 2011 that will result in some inflow into structural SG&amp;A because structural SG&amp;A are people.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you put the numbers of that Mike? I mean that's kind of what I'm trying to get to.
I know it's significant.
It's hard to get to on a calculator.
No I got it.
We haven't guided at that level of granularity Budd.
But it's just a decent amount of money that's going to flow back and maybe I can have Nancy connect with you and help you understand all the moving parts so that you can make a judgment about that.
But it's not a huge shift.
But I think even structural SG&amp;A maybe up as a percentage of revenue in 2012 we'll see.
I'm pushing really hard on this because I want to pull the money out of there.
And how you do that is you pull people out and you also pull discretionary costs out because the money -- we talked about the fact that we want to get our brand building investment up to over 8%.
Today I think we ended Q4 just a little bit ahead of our run rate  2% 3% [ph] year-to-date.
So our historical -- we said 150 basis points is what we needed.
We did a little better than our run rate in Q4 despite SG&amp;A being down.
I think we did 670 basis points on brand building.
So we're moving in the right direction in terms of the investment there Budd.
Next year's going to be an odd one because there's a little bit of money that has to flow back because we want to provide the right level of engagement for the folks that are in that structural bucket.
But the principle that we have to look at over time is to make sure we work those costs down over the years so that we get brand building investment back to that 8% threshold that we think is sort of the starting line for brand building investment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick other one.
In Tools &amp; Hardware I think Juan said that you made some additional investments and I think you said they are among -- Bill's businesses are among your favorite businesses and yet you had great sales growth and no basically earnings growth.
I think if I did the numbers right you probably should've posted maybe another $6 million worth of OpEx.
Is that the amount that you reinvested in brand building in strategic development for that business? Is that approximately the right way to think about it? Look Budd I won't give you a specific answer to the amount but I'll tell you where the money is flowing to in Bill's group.
It's flowing to selling capabilities.
So when you think about Bill's trajectory in Asia and his trajectory in Latin America and the fact that were able to deliver decent results in a very tough macro environment Bill's business is not advertising and consumer promotion driven.
Bill's business is really driven through the customer interfaces we have in building strategic partnerships and providing insights that help the Home Depots and the Lowe's of the world build their categories.
And obviously we do it to our brands so we'd benefit from that.
So the investments are going into that space.
The other thing that we've done and I mentioned Rubbermaid Medical Solutions delivering 80% top line growth so that clearly has been another place where we put some markers down because we've got great products that are differentiated.
We have a really powerful selling proposition against both the choosers the administrators in the hospital and the users the nurses of our products.
So we're working to improve the capacity of nurses to care at the same time as optimizing workflow in the hospital environment and creating productive value for the chooser.
And so that model is really yielding results but you have to invest in the selling structures to do it.
And we invested both in selling structures in Asia on IP&amp;S which is a great source of traction a great beautiful margin business.
The operating margin in the business is amongst the highest in my total portfolio.
And also the capital investment we put increased capacity in that business to be able to supply demand.
Some of the CapEx step-up that you see went to support investment in our East Long Meadow facility to enable us to be able to service the demand we're generating with the selling expense.
So this is a source of funds business for us and it will continue to be in the context of the strategy we'll lay out over the coming weeks and months.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So basically just to make sure I understand it then you're basically saying the additional investment is people and people mean salaries and salaries continue? Correct.
Our next question comes from Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering just now that you've been at the company a little bit longer if you could share any other insights or impressions that you have? I mean you've alluded to capabilities in some areas and still needing to have capabilities.
And I remember under previous management there was a marketing executive who had provided a score sheet of marketing capabilities and sort of scoring the firm's capabilities in certain areas.
Is that an idea you embrace and how's that score sheet coming along? Like maybe you could just talk about some of those things.
I think Linda the principle behind what you just mentioned is important.
What you don't measure you don't improve.
Let me just talk to these -- the capabilities a bit and then I'll come back to where I think we are.
What we're building is a company that has 2 towering capabilities of equal stature.
One that Mark Tesler really led and started which is the marketing capabilities and embedding a brand-led strategy into the company building an innovation agenda that is managed in a disciplined way across the 13 different GBUs that we've had up until this conversion we're making.
And so that's one of the towering capabilities.
The other towering capability of equal stature I think is an opportunity for us and that's the selling capabilities and building effectively a powerhouse executional company.
And if you've got great ideas and great concepts coming through your marketing capabilities and you build an operational powerhouse on your selling and supply chain side you get a very potent combination.
Today I'd say our strength is in the marketing side.
And then when we have pockets of brilliance in the selling side but we don't have an even capability there.
And I think there's opportunity to strengthen that not only in the emerging markets where we're nascent but as importantly in the developed world.
So as you think about us and as I lay out our agenda for the company you should hear more evidence of that.
Then maybe you have up until this point.
In terms of score-carding where we are I think our marketing capability is stronger than our capabilities -- our strategic selling capabilities.
That's why we're building and deploying it cross functionally integrated customer and channel development teams as part of Project Renewal in the U.S.
But do I think our marketing capabilities are where they need to be for the long term? No.
I think there's opportunity there.
Ted Woehrle has done a fantastic job but I think if he were on the phone today he'd tell you it's a work in progress.
And from my perspective that's great because that's upside potential as we develop those capabilities.
Your next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just tell us like what percentage you are complete with Project Renewal? I know the GBUs have already been flattened but in terms of personnel decisions and things like that.
Yes we're moving quickly but I want to make sure we move thoroughly.
And so we've got the architecture in the GBUs in place at the top of those GBUs.
We're in the midst of the selling redesign work that I've alluded to in the U.S.
Weve got -- we've announced the closure of our Rubbermaid Consumer factory but we haven't implemented that.
We've announced a couple of D.C.
closures again but we haven't implemented that.
So these things take some time to execute and you have to manage them in the right way.
So there's still a ways to go in terms of the follow-through around that.
On the people side and headquarters most of that's behind us.
So if I were going to rough it I'd say probably jeez I'd say 25% of the -- 30% of the choices have been made.
The money will start flowing in a differentiated way from that but it flows in an increasing way Q1 Q2 Q3.
So -- and some of it in Q4 because some of the big choices we made are more expensive.
People choices we made were executed in Q4.
But I mean I think that's the way to think about it because the closure of that factory is a pretty big ticket item.
The operational stuff we said was probably about 30% of the overall program and that comes late in 2012.
All the people-related choices come in -- probably get done towards the month of July of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's really helpful.
And then just back to Europe.
So SAP in April what percentage of the total business will be on SAP and running when that's done? All of the European business will be on SAP once it's up and running.
Research Division</strong> How about the total company? We would have Latin America and APAC to go.
So that would be close to 80% of the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when do you get rid of the legacy systems? Because if I'm not mistaken there is a lot of sort of overlapping costs between keeping the legacy up and then putting SAP on.
So when do you kind of get that step change cut over? That's probably going to be after 2013 because after Europe we'll still have APAC and Latin America to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to get a -- I'm sorry there's a lot of questions but the tax rate for the year.
I know obviously when you go to the EPC that should be sort of the step change in the tax rate as well.
Have you given guidance on the full year tax rate? And how much of that is impacted by EPC? Yes.
We said Bill that the tax rate is going to be about flat for the year which is a good thing if you take into account that we had some benefits in Q4.
Some of those benefits' driven by the improved profitability in Europe so it's good news that we have more profit.
So some of those benefits that were locked in the balance sheet we're now being able to access.
But they relate to the structuring for EPC not the ongoing benefits of EPC.
So once EPC goes live in April of next year we begin to capture the benefits I'd say beginning in May and those become structurally lower rate.
So basically flat to this year but taking into account that this year was -- particularly because the Q4 was helped by some of the prep work for EPC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then 2 more quick ones I promise.
The health of the European distributors.
I know last time the 2008 downturn there was an issue because a lot of distributors were overlevered and they kind of raced to get rid of inventory.
So the market is what the market is but how would you describe the health of your distribution partners? Look the business that I would -- that I think we see that first is in our Tools &amp; Hardware business.
So far so good despite a very difficult environment but I think we have to be -- we have to plan for a worse environment and hope for something better.
But that's the one -- that's sort of the lead indicator that we'll watch those categories.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the last one I promise is just -- I know Walmart is specifically or we can say your largest customer.
The comps are obviously really easy in the front half of the year and we saw some big year-over-year swings as Walmart's percentage of sales in the front half of last year.
I mean does that seem like that relationship is largely repaired? Yes I mean I think -- I'm very optimistic about our relationship with Walmart.
I think the thing that drove the front half challenges in 2011 was actually their philosophy with respect to their merchandising approach.
And on the full year we ended up at around 11% despite that slow start.
So they represented about 11% of our total revenue.
So the relationship was never an issue.
That was a strategic choice that impacted the activity.
And we have good relationships with these guys.
They're people we've known for a long time I've known for a long time in a whole variety of different ways.
And we have the type of dialogue with them that if they're not happy with us or we're not happy with them it's shared quite transparently.
And we have the kind of relationships where we can get to a constructive solution.
But our numbers look -- are looking fine with them and our Q4 numbers with them were back to sort of historical levels and as I mentioned the full year at 11%.
Your next question comes from Christopher Ferrara with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So just quickly on the dividend -- I know we ask about it every quarter.
Is raising the dividend still contingent upon on S&amp;P upgrade? Because it sounds like you may have more discretion from the board to make that decision.
And I guess is 30% to 35% payout ratio still how you're thinking about it? Look we -- that is how we're thinking about it.
We want to get back to that level of dividend payout ratio.
We believe we're going to have the flexibility to get back there.
Of course it is the board's discretion.
Our capital priorities we've been pretty clear about.
We're going to opportunistically leverage the share repurchase program but job one is to put the money into the business.
We need to get on with our strategic agenda.
But I think we're going to have the flexibility to provide value back to shareholders in a variety of different ways through top line growth and margin improvement through continuing to work on working capital such that we free up cash to be able to have more flexibility.
So I think we're going to -- this is a very cash generative business and that's -- with still plenty of opportunities left in working capital.
So I can't give you a specific moment in time when we'll be able to get in there.
We increased the dividend by 60% in 2011 and I hope we can find a path to being able to do the same sometime soon.
Research Division</strong> But are you guys waiting for that S&amp;P upgrade to do it? It's not contingent upon that.
That's not how we think about it.
I think we're going to be able to get everything done we want to get done and one of our priorities is to get the dividend payout ratio to more competitive levels.
And of course we want to get our leverage ratios to where we think the optimal capital structure is.
So I think we can do both in a very reasonable amount of time.
Yes I would agree with that.
I mean we have been prioritizing debt repayments because of the leverage ratio.
I think we're making really good progress.
We're going to be where we want to be in the second half of next year.
The board has expressed a desire to get to 30% to 35% so that would imply kind of consistent increases in the dividend and I don't see anything that will keep us from doing that.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And on the same kind of cash topic.
So CapEx at $200 million to $225 million.
That's the highest number I guess in 9 years and I know you're definitely telegraphing need for investment.
But I guess can you just talk a bit about what the bigger items are that may be driving that for next year? Look I mean I talked to -- I think Chris the most strategic piece of this obviously is SAP but the other strategic piece is investing in capacity in IP&amp;S.
So being able to service the demand that we're creating there is an important priority for us in 2011.
We put a fair amount of investment into our East Long Meadow Massachusetts facility in order to be able to step up our growth.
And it's playing out beautifully.
I mean the team have done a fantastic job there and I think there's -- that we want to make sure we've got the capacity to be able to service all the demand we intend to create.
We're strengthening our selling systems in Southeast Asia and in China.
I was actually in a metal cutting shop outside of Shenzhen at the beginning of December with Rich and his team and we're making good progress there.
But there's a lot of growth to be had.
So we're going to continue to make those types of investments to be able to capitalize on the potential of our businesses.
And obviously we need to get the systems infrastructure in place to be able to have a greater clarity and transparency into the cost within our business and the working capital of our business and that's what SAP is going to enable for us.
Just let me add a couple of data points.
The operating groups the CapEx as a percentage of net sales was about 2.4%.
That's higher than the ongoing rate because of the investments that Mike alluded to.
There's almost close to $40 million in investments either in capacity selling systems or in the case of Decor the size-in-store machines.
The rest is related to SAP and the work in SAP EPC in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's really helpful.
And I guess just one last.
Mike getting back to I guess Phase 1 of what you were talking about around delivering what you say you will all right.
2012 is your first set of guidance as CEO here and you definitely spend a lot of time talking about rebuilding that credibility.
So I guess the context you gave around earnings is that -- look Europe's a drag FX is a drag.
You seem like you're holding back some of the restructuring reinvestments until the back half to make sure the range is okay.
So I guess the question is: Do you feel comfortable that you got it conservatively enough understanding that the portfolio kind of have -- had the ability in the past to have things sneak up on you a little bit? I guess you feel comfortable there.
Look I feel comfortable but that's not to say that we're where we want to be from an operational perspective.
I mean the Decor example's just another point of evidence.
Now every business has issues that crop up.
I've made a commitment to you guys to be very transparent about them.
So when we have them we talk about them so that you have greater visibility into the business.
But do I think we're where we want to be with respect to our performance relative to our ambition? Not yet.
I think that's something that's still in front of us.
So we talk as a leadership team about building an operational powerhouse that is -- in as a complimentary capability to our strategic development thinking in our brands and in our categories.
That's an aspiration.
That's not where we are today.
So I think we have more to do.
Do I feel like we've called the guidance in a way that can deal with the sort of error band that's inherently in this business around the midpoint? Yes absolutely.
Six months in and unfortunately for everybody I look at every number.
And I'm feeling like we've called it in the right place right in the middle of the range.
As I said it's a balanced range given what we know today given the volatility in the markets today.
That's where I would call it.
And we're on to kind of focusing on delivery here.
I think the first stage of the strategic agenda and the last phase of the delivery agenda they overlap with each other.
I think it's going to take us a while to build back our credibility.
I think we got an entire year at least of doing what we say we're going to do.
That will be 6 quarters.
If we can string together 6 quarters then we can maybe take a breath.
But of course any quarter you step back and you miss you might as well go back to go.
It's like Monopoly you go to jail.
So I don't want to land I don't want to roll the dice and land in that little cell and end up back in jail and not collect $200 at the start.
So it's an everyday thing like I said.
I don't think I'll ever declare success quite frankly Chris on the delivery stage because I think it's the wrong message to send into the business.
So there's always things you can do better.
I think as we go along we'll have more of our time freed up as we get more confidence and more capacity to do exactly what we say we're going to do to spend on unlocking the future.
And that's -- I hope to shift the balance of our energy towards that to find more balance in our time towards that as we go through 2012.
And I know that's a very vague abstract answer to your question but that's the best I can do at this point.
Your next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Could you tell us what you think the real opportunity in working capital improvement is? How much you believe you can improve cash conversion? And what metrics you're targeting? I think the opportunity is more than my guys are forecasting.
So that's a message for my team.
But they are forecasting improvement this year but I think there's more to be had.
But Juan why don't you tackle that one? Yes we have internal targets Connie which we'd rather keep aspirational and private for now.
But we're committed to consistent improvement.
You saw that we took 2 days out of receivables.
We took one day out of inventories and that is in a year when we're having to build some buffer stock where plants shut down and the Europe go live that will put up more pressure on the inventory.
We gave back a day in payables.
So we'll get that back.
The thing is that we are putting in place the process improvement that will deliver consistent improvement in working capital.
So we decreased it a little bit this year -- in a year where the pressure was going the opposite way and we feel confident that this should continue.
Connie I think SAP in Europe will help.
When I look at our working capital in Europe I'm not -- I think that's a big opportunity in getting through that -- the window of conversion and then being able to put a front end on the system so that we can see that all the costs in our business model in Europe both in the P&amp;L and also in working capital that's going to be an enabler.
I think there's more work to be done in the U.S.
We need to make it very visible every day like all the other metrics in the P&amp;L are.
I hesitate to give you a number but it's something that is on my personal priority list and Juan's personal priority list to kind of work on in 2012 and make meaningful progress on.
Okay.
A follow-up again on the tax rates.
I mean the tax rate in 2011 was down about 250 basis points 270 from 2010 with most of the improvement in the fourth quarter although the rates were better in the first 3 quarters.
This just can't all be Europe or is it? And if it's not what else is going on? And then also why does the fourth quarter tax rate tend to be lower than the rest of the year? Most of the improvement in the fourth quarter is related to Europe Connie.
And there are 2 sources.
I'll put them in 2 buckets.
One is the unlocking of the tax operating losses from the improved profitability in Europe right? Because we're making more money and now we can benefit losses that we were unable to benefit in the past.
And you don't really know that until you basically close the books and look at it legal entity by legal entity.
The other bucket is as we prepare for EPC and we make changes in the legal entity's structure there are tax planning opportunities that present themselves.
And our tax team was aggressive to take full advantage of them.
Those are nonrecurring because they are related to the structure itself and at the ongoing profitability.
But they are real money.
So they're real they came through.
So that answers that part.
The other about the tax rate the tax rate will fluctuate quarter-to-quarter because there are always discrete items and it's hard to predict when those come.
Last year there was a big one that was the R&amp;D credit which would have benefited Q1 and that law was retroactively passed by Congress in Q4.
So all of that that would have been recognized in the first 3 quarters was recognized in one quarter.
So those kinds of things caused the variability in the tax rate.
And one final question if I could on the quarterly flow.
Just from the comments you've made it seems to me that second quarter earnings are likely to decline if sales shift in Europe from Q2 to Q1 if the merchandising is pulled while SAP is going in.
There is that dynamic.
I think the best way to look at our health as a company is to look at the first half as a whole because you're going to have that Q1 Q2 flip which is unfortunate and we'll have to be talking about it for a whole another year.
But it is what it is and we need to do that to protect the business in April.
It's a big and complicated transition where we're leading.
Is it going to be negative in Q2? Could be.
I hope not.
I don't want to capitulate yet but that's the type of thing that we're going to arm wrestle our way through with the business teams.
But your observation is right on.
Your next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I just have a couple of questions.
One I guess I want to just go to Europe.
And thinking about it I know long-term target has always been that 10% margin.
So as we think about Europe's weakening sales and hopefully it's only one year and maybe by 2013 we can start to see improvement but you do have some of the European restructuring savings coming through.
I was just wondering how you think about managing that business next year and maybe putting some color around the context of getting back to that goal of 10% margin? Look I think the thing that's going to determine how well we do is getting back to growth in Europe.
But growth not at any cost growth -- profitable growth.
When we talk at CAGNY we'll talk about the portions of our portfolio that are most leverageable in those geographies any portfolio of strategies the intersection of geography and category.
And we're looking to build strong sales geographic and category sales.
So you talking about Europe as a whole is probably not the right way for us to talk about our agenda going forward.
But in broad terms the thing that's going to really stabilize Europe and get us on to sustainable improvement in the business there will be getting back to growth.
And that's going to be very very difficult in the macro environment next year.
But again I'm not willing to capitulate at this point but the plan doesn't assume.
In fact the plan assumes a worsening growth performance there.
What's the end game? What's the operating -- normalized operating margin end game for EMEA? Don't know.
I wouldn't be happy if we stayed where we are.
I think in a better macro environment we ought to be -- and in general in the developed world we ought to be able to fuel some of the investments we want to make and broadening our geographic footprint on the back of our developed world markets to include Western Europe.
Next year that's unlikely to be possible.
But strategically should we expect that out of our European business to be able to grow ahead of the markets and make progress year in year out and delivering normalized operating margin increases? Yes.
Do we have all of it all the plans lined out to achieve that yet? No.
But is that the mile markers that I hold out for that business? Yes.
And we think that's the right aspiration to have because again with increased profitability in Europe on the OI level and the tax advantage structure around it the flow-through of that business will have increased considerably from what it was just a year or so ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thats a good answer.
And just second I guess thinking about the 2 to 3 core sales for the year.
How do you look at it in terms of where you need sell-through in categories as opposed to where you're getting incremental distribution in 2011? We saw some good points of incremental distribution that you talked about whether it's the J.C.
Penney business et cetera.
So when you think about that 2 to 3 from that perspective can you kind of just add a little color to that? I think -- look when we think about the emerging markets I think you should think about it as expanding our footprint in trying to lock down some of the initial wins that we've got.
So Sharpie and Paper Mate in Brazil for example is going to be a combination of both.
If you look at our business in that geography on those brands we've got the first big step forward which is landing all the big direct buying accounts.
But if you look at the northern part of Brazil there are fewer of those -- the penetration of those accounts into that part of the country is less and so you have to sort of work it street by street distributor by distributor.
In a place like Brazil on a category like writing and creative expression we'll get a combination of both.
I expect to get increased sell-through in the initial distribution that we got in Brazil and we're going to continue to broaden distribution through the distributors into the smaller retailers in the Northeast and the northern part of Brazil as we build the business case for our brands to those distributors.
So that's an example of what can happen in the real world.
We have a blend of those opportunities all over the world even in the U.S.
So I continue to believe that our Goody brand has plenty of opportunity to broaden distribution not just sell-through.
I walk into many stores and I see our competitor with a better distribution footprint than us.
So I think we continue to have both types of opportunities.
Our marketing programming and our brand building activity in a place like the U.S.
is focused primarily on driving increased consumption on the distribution we've got.
And then our selling activities are focused on broadening the distribution footprint.
So I don't think there's one answer.
I think it's a blend by geography different by business.
And we have to approach it that way and at that granular level.
LLC Research Division</strong> Did you calculate what the impact I guess of the change in Q1 Western Europe and also some of the challenges with Decor? What that would be to total year of sales? Well they're in our guidance.
So we've -- that's how we -- I said to you guys that our full year guidance is below our second half run rate and those are the 2 drivers of that core sales step-down and so that the macros in Europe there's the Decor issue and then there's also just the reality of what we have to do to manage the transition in Europe with less merchandising in our European business in the first half of the year.
Those are the key things.
And then the recovery on Decor.
And that's how we end up in the range we're in.
So it's been modeled pretty well I think.
It's as best as you can do with the volatility in the markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> No that's fair.
And just one last question and then I'll jump off.
Just where you have taken pricing or where pricing was going in for 2012? I think one of the things that are people talking about now is who's taking pricing and who's following? So I was just wondering if you could talk maybe about that type of dynamic and the price gaps that out there? And how comfortable you feel with you versus your competition on the shelf right now? Maybe really focus more obviously on developed markets.
Yes sure.
Look I think this is a category by category answer as well but let me just start at a macro level.
We did achieve the pricing we had built into our gross margin objectives.
Our issues on gross margin in Q4 were not pricing related.
They were cost of failure related and a little bit of mix.
And we have pricing built into 2012 as well in our gross margin assumptions.
We have the rollover effect of the pricing actions we took in 2011 and we have some new pricing as well in 2012.
In many categories I don't think it's going to be an issue to land that pricing in part because we go through this process of line reviews every year and most of that's behind us.
There are some businesses where the pricing every day is a critical issue.
Rubbermaid Consumer's a great example of that in the U.S.
business particularly in the container segment and in the food and bev segment.
And so that's where Jeff has to manage that dynamic every day.
He's got a sort of pricing principles relative to competition that he's managing to.
Those are the guardrails on his business.
He knows what kind of premium he can afford to have without losing consumers.
And he manages to that and he's empowered to manage that.
So I'm not sitting there waiting for him to send me a note to approve a price increase or price decrease.
He's got to manage that every day and maintain competitiveness in that category.
That category is an example of a more intense category with respect to pricing.
And there are a couple of them like that.
Everyday Writing -- in some of the segments of Everyday Writing we have that same dynamic.
And Ben Gadbois who runs that business he's -- that's his call.
He needs to make those real-time.
Of course he's got margin objectives as well so every one of those choices comes with a trade-off somewhere else either more productivity or him playing the mix differently because he's got to deliver his margin numbers as well.
But theres certain portions of our portfolio where relative pricing to competition's essential and there's other portions of portfolio where it's less of a key driver.
And each one of our leaders understands the different levers to pull for the outcomes we're seeking and they're empowered to pursue them and I'm looking at their delivery and at the numbers and challenging that but the decision points differ in the organization.
Thank you for the questions.
I think they're really helpful.
As I said at the beginning of the call we view Q4 as a solid quarter.
It's another step in the progression we believe we need to make.
So progress much more to do lots of excitement within the business lots of change within the business but building confidence that we can be the kind of company you can count on to do what we say we're going to do and also that we can build Newell Rubbermaid into a bigger faster growing more profitable more global company.
So thanks so much and I look forward to seeing many of you at CAGNY.
Bye now.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (404) 537-3406 with an access code of 41968616 starting 2 hours following the end of today's call.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Great thanks.
Welcome everyone and thank you for joining Newell Rubbermaid's first quarter earnings call.
On the call with me today are Mike Polk President and Chief Executive Officer; and Juan Figuereo Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that our discussion this morning includes forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes could differ materially from management's current expectations and plans.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Please review the cautionary statements in the earnings release and our most recent 10-K.
In addition during the call today we will refer to certain non-GAAP or adjusted financial measures including but not limited to normalized operating margin and normalized earnings per share.
We present this non-GAAP information for the purpose of enabling investors to better understand and analyze our ongoing results of operations.
For further information on reconciliations to comparable financial measures under GAAP please refer to our earnings release and the accompanying supplemental information available on the Investor Relations area of our website as well as our filings with the SEC.
With that let me turn it over to Mike Polk for his comments.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our Q1 2012 results call.
Our objective today is twofold: First we'll review our first quarter results and share some observations about our performance; second we'll discuss the progress we are making driving our growth game plan into action.
Let's get into the results.
We posted a solid set of Q1 numbers that represent the positives delivering full year results in line with our guidance.
Importantly we delivered these results in the context of a significant change agenda.
We've aligned our organization around the new growth game plan executed the European transformation SAP EPC cutover driven Project Renewal into action and delivered our third consecutive quarter of consistent results getting the business back into a predictable cadence of delivery.
I'm proud of the team.
They've been fully engaged and continue to demonstrate their ability to drive delivery and drive change at the same time.
Net sales growth this quarter was a very solid 4.6%.
Core sales growth was 5.2%.
We estimate that about $28 million in net sales were pulled forward from Q2 into Q1 associated with SAP implementation in Europe.
Adjusting for this pre-buy core sales would have been up 2.9%.
The 2.9% underlying core sales growth is stronger than we anticipated when we guided the full year at the end of January.
As you recall we thought we'd be in the lower end of the 2% to 3% full year guidance range in the first half of 2012 as a result of less merchandising support in Western Europe during the SAP transition window and operational challenges on Dcor.
This planned slowdown was more than offset in Q1 by strong performance on our Professional and Baby businesses.
Q1 normalized EPS was $0.33 a year-over-year improvement of 14% and $0.02 better than consensus.
Adjusted for the benefit of the SAP pre-buy normalized Q1 EPS would have been approximately in the middle of our full year EPS guidance range of 3% to 6%.
We delivered 10 basis points of normalized operating margin improvement despite increasing strategic SG&amp;A about 90 basis points.
The increased strategic SG&amp;A investment was fueled by continued progress on structural SG&amp;A down over 80 basis points versus prior year and good sequential and year-over-year improvement in gross margin to 38.3% up 20 basis points versus prior year.
Our 38.3% gross margin was our highest result in the last 6 quarters despite continuing challenges from operational issues in our U.S.
Dcor business.
Importantly cash flow was over $60 million better than prior year and we returned over $40 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In Q1 our Professional segment had another strong quarter delivering core sales growth of 10% with the reported sales up over 9%.
This continued strong performance was broad based.
Our Consumer segment core sales declined 2% with reported sales down 2.6%.
This downturn was driven by the continued challenges in Dcor which while expected masked a very good quarter on the balance of our Consumer segment.
Writing in particular had strong performance with excellent innovation on Parker and Paper Mate having a positive impact on those businesses.
We have made good progress resolving the operational issues at Dcor.
Q1 represented sequential improvement in customer service versus Q4 and we believe we'll see further improvement in all key metrics in Q2.
The Dcor business should return to more normal operating rhythm in the second half of 2012.
Our Baby &amp; Parenting segment delivered outstanding growth in Q1 with reported and core sales growth of 21%.
Our Baby growth rates were enhanced by weak year-ago comparisons and some onetime benefits that either don't repeat or reverse out in the balance of the year.
Our expectation for the remainder of the year is for more modest performance.
Importantly the Baby results due reflect steady progress with Graco POS positive in the U.S.
and excellent momentum on Aprica in Asia partially offset by continued challenges in Europe.
Excluding the SAP pre-buy 8 of our 9 global business units grew core sales in Q1 5 of the 8 grew core sales greater than 5% and 2 of the 5 grew core sales greater 10%.
In the emerging markets core sales grew over 14% in Q1 with double-digit core sales growth in most of the major countries.
Our Q1 core sales grew nearly 3.5% in the developed world.
Excluding the SAP pre-buy developed world core sales would have been up about 1% with strong growth in Japan and solid results in the U.S.
offset by continued sales declines in Western Europe.
Our key growth initiatives yielded the impact we expected in Q1.
Industrial Products &amp; Services achieved their 9th consecutive quarter of double-digit core sales growth.
Rich Wuerthele and his team are simply doing the fundamentals right superior products superior selling systems new market entry and everyday great execution.
Parker Ingenuity continues to be deployed into new markets with a very successful launch in Japan.
I visited a number of our customers and salespeople in Japan a few weeks back spending time both in Tokyo and Osaka our Fine Writing business looks terrific.
We will launch Parker Ingenuity with Parker 5th Technology into China in Q2 2012.
IRWIN delivered double-digit sales growth as a result of continued new product momentum and strong 'Irwinization' merchandising programs across the Americas.
Our blue wall and other merchandising vehicles are getting the IRWIN brand and our new innovations in front of contractors in a more effectively way than ever before.
Paper Mate InkJoy has been launched in virtually all countries where Paper Mate is sold.
Market growth is accelerating and our shares are up over 100 basis points in the latest 13 weeks in the U.S..
Importantly Paper Mate growth is driving about half of the category's growth despite having about a 14 share of market in the U.S.
primarily on the strength of Paper Mate InkJoy.
We're gearing up in partnership with our customers for back-to-school and the heavy launch support behind InkJoy is still in front of us.
On Baby Aprica's momentum continued with growth of over 50% in Asia.
I met with our team as well as our largest global Baby customer when I was in Japan.
Our customers are pleased with our innovations and we're working in partnership with them to continue to build the market.
Finally Rubbermaid Medical continues to deliver outstanding results with core sales growth of over 30% as we continue to scale this brand.
My brother-in-law and sister-in-law just had their first baby this past weekend and I had the opportunity to go welcome my nephew Jacob into this world.
For me I'm not sure what was more thrilling to see and hold little Jacob which I got to admit was really cool or to see and hold the 8th Rubbermaid Medical M38 cart systems that were in the Maternity Ward of Valley Hospital in Ridgewood New Jersey.
That was just as cool as holding little Jacob.
Beyond these initiatives our efforts to unlock the trapped capacity for growth are also progressing well.
In Europe we've migrated our ERP systems to SAP and are operating in an EPC model as of early April.
The teams in Europe have worked nonstop over the last few months and have done a great job to get us to the starting line and we're ramping up order processing and fulfillment as we speak.
There are several weeks of handholding and issue resolution in front of us as there always is in an SAP conversion.
But the trend line is positive the transition was managed well and things are progressing as expected.
Project Renewal has good traction as well.
Q1 represents the first operating quarter for our simplified group in GBU structures 3 groups to 2 13 GBUs to 9.
So far the teams are functioning really well.
We've also implemented our new U.S.
selling organization.
We have created integrated cross-functional customer and channel teams at most of our top customers and in most of our channels.
We still have GBU level salespeople on those teams but they now report to a sales leader for that customer or channel who is responsible for developing our strategic relationship and our joint business plans across the total portfolio.
We transitioned to this new structure in the U.S.
in Q1.
We've held top to top meetings with many of our customers and we already have a funnel of new commercial ideas flowing into the business.
Importantly this strengthened customer-facing capability comes with lower costs than in the previous design as duplicative selling structures at the GBU level have been eliminated.
Beyond our selling structure change we've announced the closure of our Rubbermaid Consumer factory in Greenville Texas.
We should be up and running in the second half of the year in the rest of the network with capacity utilization increased and gross margin benefits flowing through to the P&amp;L.
So the European transformation and Project Renewal are progressing well.
We've also announced our drive to reduce indirect procurement in partnership with IBM.
Together these programs have given us the flexibility to begin to fund increased investments to strengthen brand building and selling capabilities on our priority businesses in our priority markets.
In Q1 we began to invest in increased selling coverage in Latin America on our Professional and Writing businesses and to fund early in the year support behind the Paper Mate InkJoy launch in North America and Latin America.
There will be more investments to follow as we move into the second half of 2012 and into 2013.
So we're pleased with the Q1 results.
They're a solid first step toward delivering our full year guidance of 2% to 3% core sales growth 3% to 6% normalized EPS growth up to 20 basis point improvement in normalized operating margin and cash flow of $550 million to $600 million.
The team is working hard to establish a cadence of delivery in the business that is consistent and predictable.
At the same time they're embracing and implementing the changes necessary to create a bigger faster growing more global and more profitable Newell Rubbermaid.
Before handing over to Juan for a more detailed dive in the numbers I'd like to discuss the impact of the SAP pre-buy on next quarter's results and also punctuate a unique event in the Q3 year-ago period that I've mentioned before but want to highlight again.
First the European SAP pre-buy effect on Q2 is self-evident.
The roughly $28 million of pre-buy revenue and the associated EPS in Q1 will reverse out in Q2.
Additionally we will not return to normal merchandising support in Europe until the end of May or early June once our order management systems are back to full capacity.
The Q2 reversal of the Q1 SAP benefit the lack of EMEA merchandising support coupled with peak ForEx pressure and generally poor European macros will put pressure on Q2 results.
While none of this is new news and is all consistent with the guidance previously provided I would point out that the best way to evaluate our results at the end of June will be on our first half numbers versus prior year.
As I mentioned on our January call the other unique event in the numbers relates to the management incentive true-up that occurred last year as it became apparent that we were not going to deliver our targets.
The bulk of that benefited -- benefit flowed through to EPS in Q3 2011.
This year ago benefit will create about a $0.04 to $0.05 EPS hurdle for us to clear in Q3 2012.
With the reversal of the Q1 SAP pre-buy in Q2 and the year ago incentive plan true-up in the prior year Q3 base the middle 6 months of 2012 will be tough months to lap with respect to EPS growth versus prior year.
That said our strong start to the year puts us right on track to deliver in the full year guidance range although EPS growth will be more skewed to Q1 and Q4 than it normally would be.
With that let me hand it over to Juan.
Thanks Mike.
And good morning everyone.
Starting with our Q1 results our net sales of $1.3 billion represent an underlying core sales growth of 5.2% or 2.9% excluding the impact of the EMEA SAP pre-buy.
In North America net sales grew 1.1% and core sales grew 1.3% led by very strong growth in our Professional and Baby &amp; Parenting segments.
The Consumer segment North American core sales declined year-over-year due to the negative impact of the Dcor business.
Outside North America net sales grew 13.6% or 15.4% excluding ForEx.
Adjusting for the SAP pre-buy international core sales grew by almost 7%.
Both Latin America and APAC which are priority growth markets for us delivered double-digit core sales growth with Latin America increasing 10.9% and APAC increasing an impressive 24.6%.
Although EMEA's reported core sales growth was 12.7% after adjusting for the impact of the SAP pre-buy the region showed a core sales decline of approximately 3% mainly due to the continuing tough macro environment in Western Europe.
Gross margin was 38.3% a better-than-expected 20 basis point improvement over a tough year-ago comparison.
Pricing productivity and mix more than offset input cost inflation.
Versus the prior year pricing contributed 100 basis points to the gross margin improvement while inflation had a 130 basis point adverse impact.
SG&amp;A spend increased $18 million compared with the prior year and on a percentage of sales basis increased 20 basis point to 27.3%.
The main driver of the increase was higher brand building and strategic spend as we continued to invest in demand creation initiatives in focused growth areas.
The Newell Professional segment where we are showing the strongest growth trends was one of these focus areas.
And in our Consumer segment support for the Paper Mate InkJoy launch and geographic expansion in the Writing business was another.
Operating margin on a normalized basis increased 10 basis points to 11%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $20.2 million compared with $21.9 million in the previous year.
This improvement was due to lower debt levels.
Our normalized tax rate in the fourth quarter was 23.5% compared with 24.9% in the prior year quarter.
The change in the normalized year-over-year tax rate was primarily driven by the geographic mix of earnings and the timing of certain discrete items recorded in the quarter.
We continue to expect the full year tax rate to be essentially flat to last year at around 26%.
During the quarter we used cash of $47.4 million for our seasonal operating needs a 56% improvement over the prior year.
This was a very good outcome considering the incremental working capital needs in the quarter to support SAP go live in Europe.
The main drivers of the year-over-year improvement were lower incentive cash payments related to our 2011 management bonus as well as lower customer programs partially offset by higher pension contributions.
We continue to make steady progress improving our working capital.
We were able to maintain our cash conversion cycle essentially flat versus prior year in spite of incremental need to support SAP go live in Europe which included extended terms for customer pre-buys supplier prepayment and targeted inventory build.
We returned $40.6 million to shareholders in the form of $24.2 million in dividends and $16.4 million paid for the purchase of 0.9 million shares.
We retired $250 million in medium-term notes in the quarter which was bridged with short-term lines that we plan to pay down with operating cash flow in the second half of the year.
We believe our balance sheet will continue to get stronger and towards the second half of 2012 we should be close to our desired comfort range of 2.5x adjusted leverage ratio.
Turning now to our 2012 outlook.
As Mike covered earlier we are reaffirming our full year guidance.
We expect full year core sales growth of 2% to 3%.
With key currencies strengthening against the U.S.
dollar we are now widening our range of expected foreign currency translation impact on sales for the year to a negative 100 to 200 basis points.
This assumes average exchange rates for 2012 remained around recent spot rates.
We anticipate normalized operating margin to expand by up to 20 basis point.
This guidance reflects our expectation that we will generate gross margin improvement as productivity improved product mix and pricing more than offset inflation and that we increase strategic SG&amp;A spend to support our growth game plan.
We expect interest expense for 2012 to be approximately $80 million with debt reductions to occur in the second half of the year.
Our normalized full year effective tax rate for 2012 is projected to be around 26% which would imply an approximate 27% rate for the balance of the year.
We expect 2012 normalized earnings per diluted share between $1.63 and $1.69 or about 3% to 6% growth.
This EPS guidance excludes between $110 million and $130 million of planned restructuring and restructuring-related costs associated with the European Transformation Plan and Project Renewal.
Operating cash flow is expected to be between $550 million and $600 million for the full year including $110 million to $120 million in restructuring and restructuring-related cash payments.
Capital expenditures are projected at $200 million to $225 million.
In conclusion with Q1 behind us our outlook for the year has not changed.
We continue to anticipate headwinds from continued economic uncertainty in Europe some gross margin pressure in the first half of the year as we work through our Dcor issues and unfavorable foreign exchange.
But there's positive news as well.
Our businesses are gaining momentum.
We are seeing good growth in the businesses and regions where we're focusing our investments.
The Professional segment had another strong quarter helped in large part by the sales force investments we made.
Our Writing businesses are performing well largely driven by innovative new products and superior commercialization programs.
And we are seeing continued momentum in our emerging markets again where we are investing resources to accelerate growth.
In summary our first quarter results give us confidence in our ability to deliver on our full year guidance.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mike.
Thanks Juan.
Let me now update you on the growth game plan we unveiled at CAGNY subsequent to our January earnings call.
The growth game plan is designed to sharpen our choices and strengthen our capabilities for accelerated performance in the marketplace.
At the heart of the growth game plan is a belief in growth as our primary source of long term value creation.
There are a lot of big areas in the growth game plan.
It's a transformation strategy that will direct our efforts for the next several years and we've already begun putting the plan into action.
The first step was to simplify our business.
We've already done this through Project Renewal simplifying our design around 2 fields of play Consumer and Professional.
Second we need to make sharper portfolio choices in order to fuel accelerated growth on our brands and businesses that have the greatest right to win.
And we need to pivot a portion of our portfolio to go where the growth is happening in the world the emerging markets.
We have done this by aligning our businesses against 3 different portfolio roles: win bigger win where we are and incubate for growth.
Like creating this where-to-play framework we can now be more single-minded about deploying resources to the higher growth opportunities while tasking the slower growth businesses to win more effectively within their current geographic footprints.
We will expect all businesses to grow but in different ways and at different rates.
With the clarity of the new growth game plan our efforts and resources can be much better aligned with our growth platforms.
You are beginning to see some of the savings associated with simplification being reinvested in increased selling systems in Latin America on Professional and Writing as well as increased brand building investment behind new product launches like Paper Mate InkJoy.
We've been pushing hard to pivot the organization and drive this new strategy into action.
There is much more to share and much more to do.
I invite you to join us at our upcoming Investor Day on May 24.
We'll take the time to give you a clearer sense for the growth game plan and the actions we are taking to accelerate our performance.
With that let me open things up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was wondering if you can just talk a little bit about the retail channel in the U.S.
Obviously good January and February numbers maybe less so in March.
But particularly I guess in the DIY businesses for you guys and those channels how have the channels progressed? What's your view there? How have your share positions progressed in those markets? Look we feel good about the underlying consumption momentum in our business.
You see that in our share results on many of our businesses.
Not all but most.
So we see good share progression and we see decent category growth rates as well.
So we feel pretty good about the underlying conditions in the U.S.
at least.
Europe's a different story but the U.S.
looks to be a more interesting environment than it was a year ago.
Now some of that -- some of those conditions and some of the growth specific to our Professional businesses may in fact be an artifact of perhaps a little bit of an earlier spring in half the country but in general conditions look pretty good.
There are a number of our retail partners who are changing their merchandising strategies and approaches.
Those are things that we don't control we have to adapt to.
And we do that in partnership with them and those are choices they make in the context of their strategic agenda.
And we see that happening in a couple of places but no more so than you would normally see.
And our challenge our leaders have to adapt to that environment and figure out how to adapt their merchandising programs and their marketing programs to that reality.
But as I said in general the environment's not -- at least looking a little bit more favorable than it has historically.
Historically being the last 6 quarters or so.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess since you brought it up can you talk a little bit about -- a little more detail on what you were just talking about some changes in how the retailers are doing things? What do you mean by that I guess? And what sort of changes are you guys going to have to adapt to do you think? Well there's some that are happening in a way that work for us and some that are happening in a way that create some uncertainty but are important for the retailers.
So the most probably profound change that's out there that we look at is J.C.
Penney's change in strategy which for many of our businesses has an impact on how they merchandise.
It's not a bad thing.
It actually has the potential to be a good thing.
But as retailers transition from one point of view to another you need to move aggressively and be in touch with what it is they are trying to accomplish.
Of course we have to bring our agenda to life through their strategic framework.
I always say that we want to go to market in the language of the customer and in the context of their strategies.
And our agenda needs to sync up and be amplified in the context of what they are doing.
And that's probably the most significant one at the moment.
Obviously a year ago Wal-Mart went through a change of similar ilk going back to some of the basics that had made them such a strong partner for us.
And so this always happens.
It's not unique to the window we're in.
And that's one of the powers of the new sales structure we're putting in place will be to have a single voice accountable for those customers and to be able to anticipate some of those changes such that we can create the most commercial value in the context of their business agenda.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess one last follow-up on that one.
Is there -- has there been a near-term impact on your sales or your share or your positioning at retail in general? Or do you project a near-term impact? And can you talk about that a little bit which direction that would be in? Well our new selling structure is going to create value for us over time.
I talked about 2 jobs to be done in the company: one to create more commercial value out of what we're bringing to market in the markets where we are; and two extending our geographic footprint in a disciplined way to the higher growth emerging markets.
The change in selling structure we put in place is designed to enhance and develop and deliver more commercial value in the markets where we are.
So I expect that structural change to deliver more growth for us over time and the beautiful thing about it is it comes at a lower cost as a percent of sales but it elevates our conversation from a transactional conversation with each other to a more strategic conversation by putting one person and one team accountable for the development of our joint businesses.
So I expect positive things to happen over time.
We've just transitioned to that structure in Q1 and so there's nothing in our numbers today that show any benefit from that choice but the future will.
Your next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
On the Professional and Baby businesses excluding the contribution from SAP the pre-buy.
Can you give us a sense of the contribution -- I mean is it consumption or retailers stocking up on inventory that was driving the sales of those businesses excluding SAP? Sure.
So it's a good question.
Let me start with Baby because I think that's the one that's sort of -- is most eye-opening in terms of the trend shift and there's a number of things going on in that number and I think it's worth sharing those things with you so that you can extrapolate forward as you look at how you view our business.
Let me give you the headline first on the full year.
We expect to deliver growth on Baby in 2012.
And as you recall I said that we were attempting last year to stabilize the business in the second half of 2011 return it to growth in 2012 and that agenda is right on track.
Importantly you should not extrapolate Q1's growth rate to the full year about half of the growth is related to timing differences in selling year-over-year specifically the absence of an inventory liquidation in the prior year period.
So about half of that is a onetime event that we always had in our numbers because we knew it was going to happen.
That's not truly underlying performance.
The underlying performance though has strengthened over the last 4 to 6 months.
We've got low to mid single-digit POS growth in Graco in the U.S.
and we've got strong double-digit growth on Aprica in Asia.
And that's partially offset by continued declines in Europe.
And what we're focused on is sustaining the POS growth in the U.S.
in partnership with our retailers.
We are looking to extend the tremendous Aprica share and revenue growth we've experienced over the last 4 quarters in Asia.
However that will moderate as we lap the step up.
That growth rate will moderate as we lap the step up in Aprica's performance from last Q2.
Because this is the 4th consecutive quarter of good Aprica results.
So we don't fully expect to grow Aprica in Asia for the balance of the year at the same growth rate but we do expect it to grow nicely because we're continuing to build our share position and we've got an excellent team there that's focused on the right things.
The offset to that we expect the problems in Europe to continue until we get our 2013 new items to market which won't occur until late 2012.
Now as you recall we've moved the fellow who is running our Aprica business in Asia to Europe to help us straighten that business out Tom Brown.
And he's landed and he's getting his arms around it.
And I think the opportunity might be if we can stabilize Europe before those new items hit.
But there's no sign -- I think it would be a bad assumption to build into the core forecast to assume we could do that.
The net of all this is we'd expect to grow lower-single digits in 2012 and we're going to push ourselves to drive towards mid single-digit delivery.
I think that's a stretch as I look at things today.
But if things break our way like Europe's stabilization or if the Aprica growth rate in Asia exceeds the growth rate we built in despite lapping the step up in the year ago period.
It's possible.
But the key thing on Baby is to not take the 21% growth and extrapolate forward you'd over rank your estimates if you were doing that.
On Professional about 60% of the SAP pre-buy is related to the Professional business.
And so despite that SAP pre-buy we've got very very good results and it's broad-based.
And this is a very attractive business from my perspective.
As you know from our discussions at CAGNY it falls into the win bigger portfolio roll.
And this is -- win bigger means it will be our first call on resources whether that's human capital financial resources.
It's on trend with the move from rural living to urban living in the emerging markets.
And our opportunity is to take what is a differentiated set of product propositions and brands and a very good selling system a repeatable model grounded in those 3 things and deploy it more broadly in the world.
And so we will continue to press our Professional business for accelerated performance and the numbers in the first quarter at around 10% core sales growth are flattered in part by the SAP pull-forward but that really isn't what explains the numbers at that level.
It's just good underlying performance and excellent leadership.
So those are the 2 questions you've asked.
Of course we have another business in the quarter that is important to talk about and that's Dcor because that's actually -- while it came in exactly where we thought it would right on our expectations it certainly was a down draft in both growth and margin in the quarter.
So excluding Dcor our Consumer segment core growth rates and margins and excluding the SAP pre-buy associated with the other Consumer businesses it would have been positive as a result of the good results on our Writing businesses.
So Dcor hurt the optics of our performance.
So the way I look at this is that the Baby onetime benefits of weak competitors and the absence of the inventory liquidation is offset by -- sort of washes out against the Dcor underperformance and those 2 things normalize out as we move forward.
We fully expect Dcor to make sequential improvement in Q2 and to get back into a normal rhythm of delivery in the second half of '12.
So hopefully that creates a framework for you to look at our Q1 results and build your view forward.
Those are the key moving parts.
That was very helpful.
Just one follow-up.
You've spoken in the past about an increase in the dividend.
I was wondering if there was any better sense of the timing of that event.
Yes of course as you recall we've said and we're committed to making our payout ratios -- our dividend payout ratios more competitive.
We said we want to drive our dividend payout ratios to the 30% to 35% range.
And today we're sitting right around 20% slightly below.
And so obviously we need to continue to progress against that commitment.
This is of course the board's call not management's call but there are -- there's nothing really that I can see that would get in the way of us taking a step toward that objective that we've set in the near term.
And I was pleased with the cash delivery in the first quarter.
We're working hard on working capital to drive -- to improve our cash conversion cycle and so -- and we've got an eye towards where our leverage metrics will be at the end of 2012.
So I've said previously that our ability to take a step toward that dividend payout ratio is not dependent on any unique commitment with respect to leverage metrics or really there's nothing in the way from an earnings perspective of us being able to take a step in that direction.
So it's simply a matter of timing and I'm pleased with Q1.
I'm pleased with the gross margin delivery in Q1 which gives us breathing room to be able to make that choice and recommendation to the board.
And when the board decides that they're comfortable we will announce a stat.
Your next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Is there a way to try to figure out what the POS growth was in the quarter relative to the 2.9% organic x the SAP pre-buy? We don't look at POS in aggregate.
I think POS is slightly ahead of it and I just -- I make that judgment ahead of the growth in our markets.
I make that judgment just based on the share data that I look at.
We saw the GDP growth this morning and that wasn't particularly exciting.
And so 2.9% looks slightly better than that as well.
So look we're building share and our market growth is improving versus where it's been.
Is our POS growth ahead of the 2.9% underlying? I actually -- we don't look at it that way.
In 1 or 2 of the businesses where we do look at it it is.
But we don't look at it across the total business.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Juan just on the tax rate the 27%.
I thought we were going to have an inflection once the EPC came up which happened in April.
So is it fair to say that that's probably a conservative estimate on the tax rate? And then also if there's any cash flow implications of doing that? The 27% for the balance of the year or 26% for the full year does reflect the benefit of EPC beginning after -- in the second half of the year really beginning in May.
As you will recall we had a big benefit in Q4 from the EPC legal entity structuring.
So the fact that were able to maintain flat rate means that there's a benefit coming through.
We estimate about $0.03 per share will be the tax benefits of EPC this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
That's helpful.
And then just in terms of the commodity tenor as the year progresses I think you said 130 basis points for the first quarter.
How does that kind of look as the year progresses? The inflation outlook will be slightly less than in the first quarter for the rest of the year but it should continue in the 100 to 150 basis points range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm going to keep going if you don't mind.
$9 million I guess of renewal savings in the quarter and I think you're going to exit the year at a $100 million.
So also kind of what's the tenor of the savings coming through? Look the saving are coming through exactly as we expected them to and we see the big step up as we move through Q2 into Q3.
We some more things that have to happen.
We've announced a big series of changes but the value of the savings don't flow through into the second half.
So you got the manufacturing changes you've got distribution network changes where all of that's been announced and people know but the physical shifts don't occur and have a material impact into the second half of the year.
So we're right on track with renewal where we expected to be.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the 90 basis points from strategic spending? Can you break that down a little bit more granularly like where that money went? And then is that probably the right number for the full year? We'll see on the full year.
I got to watch the gross margin delivery.
So that's why I didn't want to guide SG&amp;A specifically.
But the 90 basis points in strategic spending is broken into both A&amp;P increases and selling system increases.
The A&amp;P increase is focused on our Writing business because as you recall we launched InkJoy at the end of last year sort of counter seasonally.
And we've supported it with good marketing support in the first quarter which is what's driving our share performance and the nice step up in category growth rates and the overall revenue performance in Writing as well as the Parker Ingenuity launch in many countries around the world.
So the A&amp;P is focused in the Writing businesses and the selling systems are supporting the Professional businesses specifically our Tools businesses in Latin America and also Rubbermaid Medical in the U.S.
And so those are the 2 places where the money has flowed.
Of course it's been funded by an 80 basis point reduction in structural SG&amp;A which is in part driven by renewal and 20 basis points improvement a little bit more than 20 basis point improvement in gross margins.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then going forward I think you're going to add bodies also.
So you have the systems in place in the selling side so...
Yes Bill when I say systems I'm talking people.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
It's feet on the street in Latin America and in Rubbermaid Medical systems.
Your next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One going back to Europe on that Baby side and with Tom Brown coming over.
Can you talk about how you guys are evaluating like country by country? I know that Germany and the U.K.
are attractive markets.
But certainly right now I'm just wondering how you're evaluating where you want to play and maybe where you might decide to exit if possible? Well look I mean we do look at our business in the way that you're describing it.
So we look at GBU by country cell and without getting too specific we make judgments about potential and competitive landscape and those drive how we prioritize which cells we'll bet on and which ones we'll defer betting on to a later date.
And Tom is working through that with Christie for Europe as well as Christie looking at that around the rest of the world.
So obviously 2 cells that are of critical importance to us.
So the U.S.
and Japan in our Baby business.
And you've hit the 2 major cells in Europe U.K.
and Germany.
And so we focus on -- we'll focus our investments against those opportunities and we'll look at the other opportunities and try to hold those businesses together in the most efficiently while we're placing investment bets on the opportunity geographies.
But without getting -- Jason I don't want to get too specific on where we're going to do what.
We have some pretty active competitors that I'm sure are listening to this call and that would give them all the information they needed to do their roadmapping.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then I guess the second question is really about One Newell.
And I guess just wanted to kind of draw upon your experience with One Unilever like how long did it take to kind of see the returns come through? Maybe just any -- I know after CAGNY I think you were meeting with some of the retailers and just the reception that you've gotten so far with this program.
So just maybe if you could just draw on your past a little bit and how quickly you think that that could turn around? Again understanding it's different categories but the same concept.
Look I think we're going to see a nice benefit from this.
When I talk about increasing the commercial value of the things we're bringing to market the way we're going to do that is by being more selective and less democratic in how we allocate resources and by strengthening our selling capabilities in the markets where we are.
And so this change allows us to elevate the conversation from the buying point a transactional level to a more strategic conversation.
So I personally already participated in top to top meetings with -- in the homes -- without getting specific in the home center channel in the office products channel in the mass merchant channel and we will continue to dialogue at that level to create ambitious growth-oriented plans from our businesses.
And what I said in the call in the script was that we're seeing an interesting set of ideas now flowing out of that sales structure that offer us opportunity for growth.
Because the team is representing the total portfolio now and in the past they were really focused on their individual categories.
So new ideas are coming in every day and just like we have an innovation funnel we now have a commercialization opportunity funnel of ideas that we can go after.
Some of them are attractive some of them are not but the fact that the dialogue is occurring and that the function the customer development function is now engaging with the businesses about opportunity to accelerate growth that's a very constructive and positive development.
I think we'll see some value out of that in 2012 certainly in the back half of the year.
But the reality is the full value comes next year.
And there's much more to do.
So this is the first step but there's more to do.
There's more opportunities.
As soon you as you start thinking that way you see all kinds of opportunities for growth and also for cost.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a housekeeping and then I'll hop off.
Did you say I think you bought back about $16 million worth of stock and I know you had I think $250 million left in the authorization.
So I was just wondering if you could talk about buyback and then just how aggressive you may be over the next year or so with that.
I would like to remind you that our philosophy is actually not to be aggressive as we want to be opportunistic.
So basically you'll see us buying more when there's a big discount to what we consider fair value of the stock and you'll see us buying less as we approach that value.
The program to date we've bought about $62 million against the $300 million program.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you say if you bought anything in the month of April with your stock a little bit weaker over the last few weeks? I can tell you that through the end of -- yes we have been in the market in April.
And your next question comes from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
I guess first in terms of the positive surprise you guys saw on the quarter even adjusting for the pre-buy.
It seems like given the strong growth you saw in international that most of the surprises were on the international side.
Is that correct? And if not where did you see some upside surprise in the U.S.? I'm pleased with the Baby momentum in the U.S.
Some of that is a rollover out of Q4 and was built into the base.
But some of the Baby over deliver -- was over delivery in the U.S.
and it's core consumption-based.
We continue on our Tools business to see very very good momentum.
And as I said sort of the warmer earlier spring certainly contributed a bit of that but we've got very good innovation programs on IRWIN and we just have a superior selling system on Lenox.
So we're seeing good traction with those businesses.
So it's not just emerging markets.
It is -- those core businesses in the U.S.
are performing quite well.
And obviously in Writing with InkJoy's launch we have good momentum in those businesses around the world.
As I said we've launched InkJoy now in every market where Paper Mate is sold.
So that is contributing both in the developed world and in the emerging markets.
Now all that said I'm really pleased with the growth rates outside of the U.S.
They're not quite to the ambition we've set for ourselves for 2013 '14 '15 but they're a step towards that and this is before we've really pivoted our resources against them.
Because as you recall we just shared with you the growth game plan the framework for thinking in February at CAGNY.
We got the board's approval to it in November.
So we've built the 2012 plan in a different context and so we're shifting the activity systems in the business towards the growth game plan but it's a transitional year in that respect.
And so we haven't seen the full upside of what we intend to do in those markets.
Now that said I've always said that job one is to get more commercial value out of the markets where we are and to attack the structural cost in those markets so that we spinoff enough cash to make those investment bets.
We need to demonstrate that as our first step.
But strategically I would hope that over time we can deliver even more out of the emerging markets but I'm pleased with it.
Research Division</strong> On that point in terms of the emerging markets how should we think about the profitability ramp as you go forward in 2012 '13 and beyond? I mean obviously it's a going to need some investment that you've talked about that in the past but when should we start to see not only the top line impact from those investments but the bottom line impact as well? Yes what we've said is we're going to go after the opportunity for accelerated growth in the context of a commitment to deliver steady sequential improvement in operating margin operating income margin as a company.
And so our investment profile will be governed by the desire to deliver that.
Now what we've also said and we explained at CAGNY is that our margin structure in the emerging markets is very high.
It's very good.
In part driven by the pieces of the portfolio that we have in those markets and that should structurally continue although for a period of time we will need to step those margins back as we invest for growth.
And the way we'll fund that is by getting the cost out of Western Europe and the cost out of North America such that we get the margins up there.
The net effect of it should be margin enhancement for the company steady sequential improvement in operating margin enhancement and operating margin delivery and operating margin growth.
And we've said this year that we envision delivering up to 20 basis points of normalized operating income margin and I think we should be committing ourselves to doing that going forward as I said in the discussions around the longer-term guidance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Just one last one if I could.
In terms of the -- your growth game plan you talked about allocating resources differently than Newell has done in the past.
I would imagine some of those discussions you have are positive discussions and some of the discussions you had with business leaders might be a little bit more difficult.
How has the organization -- or at least parts of the organization that may see less resources adapted to this new reality? So Joe what we did this year to enable that conversation to occur in a productive way is we changed our compensation system.
If you recall we had the 43 different bonus pools management incentive pools last year.
This year we have one total company performance.
And so we've taken the constraint off that would have inhibited the movement of resources -- either human capital or money across business.
And so that was an important first step.
The other thing that we're attempting to do through targeting is to establish targets that are relevant to the roles that those businesses play.
And again '12 is a transition year '13 will not be.
We've already started having conversations about our 2013 plans and targets.
And those plans and targets reflect the strategic ambition we've set for each of those different businesses.
So there is a way for everybody to benefit from this pivot as I describe it because everybody plays a different role and has a different set of metrics that they're accountable for delivering.
In service to an outcome that should be greater than the sum of the parts and that's been our historical opportunity.
We simply have been a holding company adding up the individual businesses.
What were trying to do is make the whole greater than the sum of the parts and accelerate our growth trajectory by doing that.
Of course it's just a plan at this point.
So we need to live it and operationalize it and drive it into action.
So I don't want to overpromise at this point but it's a framework that will drive our choices over the next several years and it won't change because we know it's right.
Your next question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to ask both in one breath.
I know most kids are getting out of school but maybe you could give us an idea of what you're seeing for the back-to-school kind of from what you're hearing from retailers for both the Writing business and Office business? I mean whether they're getting more encouraged or if it should be any different there? And then second with what you said in terms of kind of some of the timing and headwinds over the next couple of quarters would do expect -- and I know you don't give quarterly guidance -- earnings to be down over the next 2 quarters on a year-over-year basis and then should really bounce back strong in fourth quarter? Look I think in the way I've described our earnings profile this year is going to look unusual and it'll have 2 nice bookends which I don't love because it creates a little bit of drama as you go through the year but that's the way it's going to flow.
I don't want to get specific Bill on whether we're going to grow or not grow EPS in any given quarter.
We're going to push ourselves to grow EPS every quarter.
Even though in particular Q3 is really difficult because of the bonus true-up in that window.
So I think -- I don't want the -- I got people listening to this call so I don't want to take any pressure out of the system for them.
But obviously Q3 will be a challenge in the mix and Q2 obviously has a challenge associated with the SAP flip.
But we're going to -- we've got better underlying growth in Q1 than we anticipated having at this point and I don't know how the story will play out but I'm hopeful that we -- these folks have really demonstrated that they can change and deliver at the same time.
So setting the ambition at the right level is important in order to continue to build the confidence in the organization.
So I would love it if the story ended with 2 quarters of growth in the middle versus prior year from an EPS perspective and the bookends I have described but I just don't know yet.
I don't know whether we're going to be able to deliver that.
Part of that will be a function of whether we can really make headway on gross margins.
I'm pleased with the gross margins and they're impacted negatively by the Dcor performance in Q1.
So if we can figure out how to get that Dcor negative out of the mix and hold it altogether everywhere else then we get to a different place than what we've built in.
But time will tell and I think you need to -- I got a little bit more explicit in this call because I really wanted you guys to think about that as you look at what we have to do in order to make it happen.
Now what I won't do is I won't manage the business in 90-day increments.
We just laid out this strategic framework for an ambition for the company and choices in any given quarter to step towards that ambition may have consequences in terms of the EPS flow.
So the fact that I've got to lap a management incentive bonus true-up in the prior year window is not going to cause me to not invest in the strategic initiative even if there are consequences with respect to EPS growth in the 90-day window.
And I know that we'll try to manage it and bring visibility to that which is what I've tried to do today so that you can anticipate it and we don't get into any missed expectations.
But at the same time the thing that is the dominant logic for me and the thing that's driving choice for me is consecutive steps towards the ambition set out in the growth game plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following back up on the Office products for back-to-school anything you're hearing early from the retailers? No I mean it's obviously a critical window.
And it's going to be -- as it always is it's going to be a real competitive battle.
And our partners are clever and they'll play us off each other and we'll have to be clever and think about how to navigate through those waters.
The good news is we've got a great innovation in our hands that will be marketed fully in that window of back-to-school and we didn't have that in the year-ago period.
We've got great share momentum over 100 basis points increase in share market share.
In fact I didn't say this in the script but in the latest 13 weeks Paper Mate is now the #2 brand in the total writing category behind Sharpie.
And so we've got good momentum fundamental momentum in this business.
It's going to be -- there'll be a battle like it always is.
So I'm not going to project how the story will end in that 4 or 5 week compressed window.
But we've got the tools to go after it and we're fully resourced to do it.
Your next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a little bit about some of the Consumer businesses you didn't touch on namely Culinary and even Rubbermaid Home.
Just -- it seems like home improvement trends that I've heard from some other companies and from retail sales reports and so on do seem to be improving so I would have thought those businesses might have seen a little bit of pick up as well.
So can you talk about momentum in those? Yes.
We've got a great innovation funnel coming on Rubbermaid Consumer in the cleaning area and then refuse and so I'm excited about those.
Those innovations are in front of us not that -- they were not being fully marketed in Q1 but they get marketed and they sell in in a bigger way in the middle to later half of the year.
Culinary it's a great brand.
Calphalon's a great brand.
And we continue to have good delivery on that business.
Last year I was flattered by increased distribution.
As you recall the J.C.
Penney sell-in.
So we've got to lap that.
So the growth rate certainly in 2012 will not be as dramatic as the growth rates were in 2011 but the fundamentals of that business are wonderful.
We've got a really terrific leader and team on that business and we continue to build out our innovation agenda there.
So I'm very encouraged by that.
I think it won't be the driver it was last year for the lack of the onetime benefit of the Penny sell-in but not -- nothing to do with the fundamentals.
And on Beauty &amp; Style we're just launching a new line of hair dryers and curling irons and it's really an important addition to that portfolio.
So we're  playing on both sides of the aisle and that's just flowing into market as we speak.
So we'll see how our heat style range does.
But I think the brand the products look quite good but it's -- again it's still in front of us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just to make sure I understand completely that's a totally new add to that business right? The heat filing? Yes.
If you walk Lauren if you walk that aisle where hair accessories are it usually sits on the other side of the aisle.
So and our competitors have both offerings in their portfolio and now we do as well.
Your next question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Really on Baby &amp; Parenting I think you've been pretty clear that I think the balance of the year looks like on a revenue basis kind of flat to down-ish a bit.
I wonder if you could comment a bit on the profitability the contribution margin in the first quarter was pretty spectacular as was the overall operating margin how do you see the profitability of Baby &amp; Parenting for the full year versus last year's operating margin? And maybe comment on the contribution margin.
I was very pleased with the operating margin delivery in the Baby business.
Certainly benefits from the tremendous momentum we have on Aprica in Asia which is a higher margin business in the balance of the line and so we're getting a mixed benefit on margin in Baby.
But it's also driven by some big and tough calls that Christie is making on cost.
And so it's the combination of those things and a strong working relationship with our key supplier on Graco our partner or sourcing partner and working together on cost.
It's been a very good 90-day window.
The challenge going forward will be that the mix benefit that's coming from Aprica in Japan because we lapped the step up in that performance that will be less meaningful for our business in the out quarters although we'll still see some of it.
And so the real driver of margin delivery and improvement over time will be getting the Graco business moving in North America.
And although I'm happy with that progress the really material step up will come when the '13 innovations flow through.
It takes about 18 months from concept development to market.
And so the real test of the new strategy will come in 2013.
And I think we'll do well this year don't get me wrong but we've got such a down draft in Europe and there's not a material catalyst there that it won't be easy to get mid single-digit growth in Q2 Q3 Q4.
Now that said we're not taking the pressure off Christie and she's not taking the pressure off her team.
So we're going to push ourselves toward that.
But not at the expense of anything strategic going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I don't think you commented on the profitability for the year.
The contribution margin in the first quarter was 47% if our math is right.
Is that about what it will be for the year or will it be...
No it won't be because you're looking at the year-over-year improvement in profit that's driven on the back of the mix improvements in Baby related to Aprica.
We're going to get some improvement.
Certainly some material improvement versus prior year but not at that rate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just my last question or a follow-up question is on -- what's left to do on SAP? Can you kind of maybe refresh us? We've talked a lot about the pre-buy.
How much is left to do? And are you seeing any benefits now from SAP? It's been a process now for I think 4 years.
Yes I know it's been a journey.
We certainly have visibility into cost and complexity and we have visibility into working capital complexity.
And we're -- the real opportunity is to now mine that.
We're delivering above expected outcome with respect to European transformation.
That project will yield a higher IRR than what was committed to the board in part by strong operational results and you see that in the operating income margin in EMEA but also by a better outcome from a tax perspective.
So we're starting to get the benefits.
There's a lot of work still to do in Q2 and that's why we've tempered some of the growth ambition in the first half of the year related to the start up that has to occur.
So when we talk about go live that simply is -- it gets you to the starting line.
And we've been for the last 3 weeks operating in an SAP EPC model in Europe.
And we're ramping up where we thought we would be.
But like any other SAP conversion there's a lot of work to be done on issue resolution and you have to tackle them as they come.
We are not seeing anything material that would suggest that we won't be able to deliver to the expectations we've set for ourselves within the business on start up.
I think we don't get to a fully stabilized normalized delivery until the end of Q2 in Europe.
And once we clear that then we have sort of an open door to move to the next project.
And the next project for us will be in the Latin America.
We prioritized Latin America ahead of Asia and specifically Brazil.
And so we have a lead team in Brazil now thinking about how to scope the opportunity and that will be the next project on the horizon.
I would add to that the SAP project since the beginning Budd we review it with the board every quarter and we look at benefit [indiscernible] versus the initial business case.
And I can tell you that generally we're ahead of what we had expected when the project was approved.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When do you think it will all be done Juan or Mike? Europe is done this year.
We've begun to do some of prework in Latin America.
And now there's discussion going on about what is a right timing for APAC.
But we're looking at probably another 2 years.
Your next question comes from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So gross margin came in better than expected in the quarter.
Juan can you talk specifically about what drove that and does that mean there's some potential upside to your prior full year expectation? And I know you touched on this but can you just update us in general on the pricing environment here and if you've held on to all the pricing you've implemented? Yes we did hold on.
We did get all of the pricing that we implemented.
In fact the pricing was slightly ahead of our expectation.
So that contributed.
We also mixed up because the businesses that recorded the faster growth in the quarter particularly versus expectation tended to be the higher margin businesses so there's a little bit of mix there.
And last there was a slight benefit from inflation it was slightly better than our expectations for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you think those are things that generally extend in the balance of the year or is most of it really mix related that dissipates as we look at the balance of the year? Also we had a ForEx impact benefit by the way.
The inflation -- our outlook for the balance of the year is slightly better than it would have been a couple of months ago.
So I mean that should continue through the balance of the year.
The pricing was a pricing really from 2011.
So that's already -- the incremental benefit will read through the balance of the year.
And we hope that the mix benefit will continue depending upon how the business has performed in the balance of the year.
I can tell you Dara that I really like the taste of 38.3% but it sets an ambition towards something even higher.
And it's good to get a step up.
This gross margin delivery at 38.3% happened despite a Dcor down draft in the numbers and it's the highest gross margin delivery we've had in 6 quarters which is also encouraging.
So we've got a lot of things we want to do going forward in the growth game plan.
Some of it will be enabled by ripping the structural cost out.
Other things will be enabled by continuing to work gross margin up.
And so I felt terrific about this outcome particularly in the context of the Dcor down draft and also in the context of a negative mix effect associated with the Baby gross margins.
So while Baby gross margins improved period-over-period it mixes it down.
So we're going to work hard on this one because it gives us the kind of flexibility both from a growth perspective and also from an earnings perspective.
And so if we can handle it and hold it we will.
Obviously it's going to get tight.
Like I said as things get competitive in Q3 in our Writing businesses and we're going to -- probably #1 is to maintain competitiveness.
So we'll manage through all of those things but one of the calls to action within the business is to really look at this number and ask ourselves whether we can continue to build on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it sounds like the European SAP implementation is proceeding well.
Do you guys have comfort that execution risk or any potential hiccups is kind of behind you there? Or where do you stand from an execution risk standpoint in implementing that? Yes I think it's premature for us to kind of put the mission accomplished banner across the aircraft carrier bow.
That said things are going exactly the way we anticipate that they would go.
And I'm very proud of the team and pleased with the energy the work effort has been really commendable.
But there's going to be issues that we're going to have to confront.
We need to work through that.
This tricky stuff as you try to do SAP across 20 countries and across all the businesses we've got.
That said we've put the right resources against it.
But like any SAP start up there's always issues that need to be resolved and we're right in the middle of that.
So there's nothing that alarms me but it's premature to declare success.
Yes we're still in the hyper care phase of the implementation.
Our team basically categorized it as crawl walk and run.
So the crawl is behind us.
We're still in the walk phase before we run.
And there's some businesses that are running already and there's some that are just getting out of crawl into talk.
And that's how it'll play out for us between now and probably middle of June.
Certainly by the end of the quarter hopefully we'd put a punctuation point on the conversion and move on to the next opportunities.
And your final question comes from Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just in thinking about your presentation at CAGNY on your strategy.
You had put some of the businesses into buckets to at least temporarily I guess in the near term kind of curtail international expansion.
Can you enlarge upon your thoughts there? Is that just sort of because right now you don't feel that's the best return on investment? Or are those businesses that really long term are not really going have much of a global opportunity? Can you just kind of talk about that? And going along with that kind of your thoughts on acquisitions and divestitures? I know you've got a lot of other important strategic things going on and it might not be top of mind but have you done like a portfolio analysis of things that you really think could be divested or are you just completely putting off that thought process? And is there any chance at all of acquisitions right now if the right thing came along? Good question.
So Linda the answer is that there's tremendous opportunity in the win bigger categories and that's going to require investment.
And what I want to make sure is that we're single-minded about those choices.
And it doesn't mean that those other businesses don't have attractive growth opportunities in the markets where they are.
They do.
And we're continuing to invest for that.
But I don't want resources spent on things that we're not likely to operationalize over the next couple of years when we have investment opportunities in the win bigger categories.
And so for the foreseeable future at least for the next several years those businesses need to look to build their share positions and develop the markets in the markets where they are and we will resource them to do that.
Like I said every business must grow.
We're just going to grow them differently and at different rates.
It doesn't mean they don't have potential in the next chapter to be part of our strategy for emerging market expansion.
We've got some beautiful brands there.
So they all have the potential to play.
We've picked the businesses that have the highest potential to piggyback on some macro trends and have brands and products with differentiated product propositions and commercial systems.
We picked the pieces of the business that offer the most upside and we'll talk more about this at the Analyst Day in May and give you the background for some of those choices in a way that you can probably dive deeper on than you were able to at CAGNY or certainly in this call.
With respect to M&amp;A like I said we've got about $100 million to $200 million worth of business that somebody else probably could create more value with than we can.
And if the right suitor came along for those businesses we certainly would listen.
And if we get the right price we certainly would listen.
Even if it does cause us some challenges with respect to retained cost you just have to make those strategic choices when they present themselves.
And so we definitely would do that for those businesses.
On acquisitions I continue to think that our #1 job is to get this business back into a cadence of delivery and then pivot the organization towards the strategic roadmap we've articulated in the growth game plan with a focus on organic growth not on external development.
We need to build that story out before we complement it with M&amp;A and we have -- and so we've made that clear within the business and that's certainly clear with respect to how we're allocating capital.
Now that said we can't control when those opportunities present themselves.
And if the right strategic thing presented itself we'd have to take a look or if the right bolt-on presented itself we'd have to take a look.
But job #1 is to get the business systems in place in those markets and to shift our activity systems to delivering the growth ambition we've laid out organically.
Well thank you everyone for participating in the call today.
As we said we're pleased with our start for the year.
We're getting back into the cadence of delivery that is consistent and predictable.
And we look forward to seeing many of you in Atlanta as many of you as can join us on May 24 for our Analyst Day where we'll spend time explaining exactly how we're driving the new growth game plan into action.
Thanks everyone.
Enjoy the weekend.
Today's call will be available on the Web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (855) 859-2056 with an access code of 70623881 starting 2 hours following the end of today's call.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations home page under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Newell Rubbermaid Second Quarter Earnings Call.
With me today is Mike Polk President and Chief Executive Officer; and Juan Figuereo Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties many of which could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of these factors may be found in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and in today's earnings release.
Also our press release and this call contains non-GAAP financial measures that include but are not limited to normalized operating income operating margin and normalized earnings per share.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations and they're provided to facilitate meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is included in the Investor Relations area of our website as well as in our filings with the SEC.
With that let me turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
This morning we reported a solid set of Q2 results with good underlying growth trends across most of our portfolio a 40 basis point increase in normalized operating margin driven by a 50 basis point gross margin increase an 11% increase in operating cash flow and $0.47 normalized EPS $0.02 ahead of consensus and 4.4% ahead of year ago.
Through the first 6 months core sales increased 2.5% right in the middle of our 2% to 3% full year guidance range.
Normalized operating margins expanded 20 basis points which is at the high end of our full year guidance range of up to 20 basis points.
Normalized EPS was $0.80 up 8.1% versus prior year and above the high end of our full year guidance range of 3% to 6%.
And operating cash flow increased over $70 million versus prior year and is on track to deliver in our full year guidance range of $550 million to $600 million.
So a pretty good set of numbers at the halfway point in the year.
Importantly at the same time that we're driving delivery we're driving change.
During the first half of 2012 we deployed a new simplified group in GBU structure launched our new customer development organization executed the European SAP EPC transition closed a significant Rubbermaid Consumer factory initiated a new indirect procurement partnership with IBM and gained traction around on our working capital reduction program.
I'm proud of the team's effort.
We're driving the business towards more consistent performance and we delivered in a very tough environment.
Perhaps as importantly they believe in our new vision and strategy and are resolved to strengthen our company and accelerate performance as we move into 2013 and beyond.
There's still much to do but we're on track to where I hoped we would be 1 year into my time at Newell Rubbermaid.
As you know from our press release we've reaffirmed our full year guidance.
Before exploring the factors that could influence full year delivery let me walk through the highlight reel for Q2 in the first half.
As you know Q2 was a complicated quarter as a result of SAP implementation in EMEA.
There were no big surprises in the SAP transition and in fact I was very pleased with the execution of the program.
To protect shipments through the Q2 startup window we pulled about $28 million in net sales from Q2 into Q1.
This pre-buy in Q1 and then the deliberate startup of our order management systems in Q2 limited our merchandising activity in the quarter resulting in less sales than would otherwise have been delivered in a normal quarter.
Adjusting for the impact of the SAP pre-buy but reflecting the absence of the merchandising in EMEA Q2 core sales were up 2.3%.
In Q2 our Professional segment had another very good quarter with core sales growth of 4.6% excluding the impact of the SAP shift.
For the first half core sales in the Professional segment rose 5.3% with all 4 global business units contributing to the increase.
The 5.3% core growth in Professional was achieved against a full year core growth rate in 2011 of nearly 6% so strong momentum and good growth on growth as we invest project renewal savings into the professional segment selling systems in the fast-growing emerging markets.
Our Consumer segment has had a tougher start to the year.
In Q2 core sales excluding the SAP timing shift were nearly flat declined 3/10 of a percent.
This is an improvement versus Q1.
Despite good results in our writing and creative expression GBU we continued to have challenges in our Dcor business and an increasingly difficult macro environment impacted our European Fine Writing brands.
While our Dcor operational issues are largely resolved as we exit Q2 the recovery has been tempered by a change in corporate strategy at our third largest customer in this category JCPenney.
JCP's new everyday low price approach has adversely impacted our highly merchandising sensitive Dcor business and we now expect this impact to persist until our partner's new strategic vision is fully implemented in our categories.
These 2 factors European macro impact on Fine Writing and the JCP challenge drove the Consumer segment decline in the first half and will put pressure on our Consumer results through the second half of 2012.
These impacts are reflected in our full year guidance at current but not worsening levels.
Our Baby &amp; Parenting segment delivered another strong quarter in Q2 with core sales growth of 7.3% excluding the SAP timing shift.
First half core sales grew 13%.
We continue to make progress on Baby &amp; Parenting with improved POS in Graco in North America and sustained stronger momentum on Aprica in Japan.
While we still have work to do we're encouraged by these first half outcomes and are increasingly confident in our ability to deliver a good set of results in 2012.
In total our first half core sales growth was 2.5% and is slightly ahead of where we expected to be at this point in the year.
Core sales grew in 6 of our 9 global business units 3 of those 6 over 5% and 2 of those 3 over 10%.
Our top 14 brands which represent about 85% of our revenue grew core sales nearly 5% with standout performance on Aprica Paper Mate Lenox Graco IRWIN and Sharpie.
We continued to deliver strong emerging market core growth of about 14% with 13% core growth in Latin America and nearly 18% core growth in Asia Pacific in the first half.
Core sales in the developed world grew about 1% with North American core growth of 2% partially offset by an EMEA core sales decline of a little less than 6% in the first half.
We estimate EMEA's underlying decline to be about 4% when adjusting for the SAP transition related to the absence of merchandising in the February through May period.
Our Win Bigger categories grew core sales nearly 4%.
Our Incubate for Growth categories grew over 13%.
While our Win Where We Are categories declined about 4% driven entirely by Dcor.
Underpinning our performance are some notable achievements.
Our Industrial Products &amp; Services business continued to drive strong core sales growth both domestically and abroad.
After adjusting for SAP Industrial Products &amp; Services delivered their 10th consecutive quarter of double-digit core growth.
Year-to-date our Lenox brand core growth was well over 10%.
The IRWIN brand delivered its 7th consecutive quarter of greater than 5% core sales growth.
We're seeing strong results from our IRWINization marketing and merchandising initiatives.
Year-to-date IRWIN core growth was nearly 10%.
In the U.S.
new innovations on Graco are resonating with consumers.
The Graco FastAction and Ready2Grow travel systems are driving significant market share gains.
Graco's first half growth was over 10%.
In Japan Aprica's success story continues.
We're investing to sustain the momentum in the business as we anniversary the strong year ago growth and competitors respond to Aprica's significant share gains.
Aprica has been our fastest growing brand in the first half delivering strong double-digit core growth.
In Asia our Fine Writing business continues to perform strongly.
In Q2 we launched Parker Ingenuity with Parker 5th Technology in China while sustaining terrific growth across the balance of Asia.
Parker delivered strong double-digit core growth in the first half in Asia.
Our Writing and Creative Expression brands are driving category growth in the U.S.
outpacing the total category growth rates by more than 2 to 1.
Paper Mate has now taken the #2 share position in the total writing category in the U.S.
as a result of the terrific success of Paper Mate InkJoy.
Globally both Sharpie and Paper Mate delivered over 5% core growth in the first half.
As I mentioned earlier we're also making good progress on our change agenda.
In Q2 we successfully went live on SAP in Europe and are operating in an EPC model as of early April.
Our team submitted to the transition extremely well and we expect to be back to normal merchandising levels in the back half of the year.
In the U.S.
we continued to build out our new customer development organization.
We've seen some early wins most notably an Office Depot Rubbermaid partnership under which Rubbermaid storage products will be sold nationwide at Office Depot retail stores and online.
On the cost side our Project Renewal efforts are on track to deliver $90 million to $100 million of savings by the first half of 2013.
In Q2 we rationalized capacity by closing a significant Rubbermaid Consumer facility.
We're also executing distribution-centric consolidations in Rubbermaid Consumer and Rubbermaid Commercial.
The benefits from these efforts will start flowing through the P&amp;L in Q3.
Beyond Project Renewal we're starting to see the early read-through of savings from our initiative to reduce indirect procurement spend.
Our goal is to reduce indirect procurement cost by $50 million in the U.S.
by the end of 2013 and we have made significant progress against that goal in the first half.
We've also identified $100 million in working capital savings over the next 3 years.
SAP is a key enabler to better working capital management.
And with over 80% of our business now on SAP I feel confident that we have the tools to work more efficiently and free up trapped cash for more productive uses.
On balance we have good visibility and made progress on costs.
And we began to reinvest some of these benefits into our selling systems on our Win Bigger categories in Latin America in Q2.
We expect the pace of reinvestment to pick up in the second half of the year as we develop new e-brand building digital assets on a number of key businesses.
So we delivered good first half results and I hope you feel as good as we do that we're getting the business into a more consistent and predictable cadence of delivery.
Let me now make a few comments on the balance of the year.
As a reminder we've guided full year core sales to increase between 2% to 3% normalized operating margin to increase up to 20 basis points normalized EPS to increase 3% to 6% or in the $1.63 to $1.69 range and operating cash flow between $550 million and $600 million.
As I've said given our first half results we are reaffirming our full year guidance.
There are 4 key factors that could influence where we fall in our guidance range.
The first factor is our performance on our Writing &amp; Creative Expression brands through the back-to-school season.
We are very well positioned for an excellent back-to-school season with a stronger Q2 sell-in than last year better merchandising placements and good U.S.
market share momentum on Paper Mate Sharpie and Expo.
The customer development teams and our retail partners have put together a good set of plans.
Of course we need the consumer to convert our merchandising placements to purchase and then we need our customers to place replenishment orders for our business to see the revenue benefit in the P&amp;L.
Remember the back-to-school formula for success is strong sell-in plus great sell-through plus strong replenishment that equals great Q2 and great Q3 in Writing &amp; Creative Expression.
If any of those variables are off the season is off.
Sell-in Q2 was stronger than prior year and the merchandising placements are stronger as well.
So far 1.5 boxes checked out of 3.
We need to see sell-through and replenishment.
Our guidance assumes we checked all 3 boxes.
The merchandising season is just kicking into high gear so we'll find out soon enough.
The second factor influencing full year delivery is the continued recovery of our direct core business and the speed with which JCP migrates gear sets to their new merchandising vision.
Our full year guidance assumes positive resolution of our operational issues in Q3 and we are largely there with all of our service metrics back to standard as we speak.
We have assumed in our guidance that the adverse impact of the changes at JCP persist until they activate their new strategy in our categories next year.
The third factor is the macroeconomic environment in Europe.
Conditions have worsened through Q2 and were a little more difficult than we anticipated when we most recently spoke in May at the Analyst Day.
The most significant impact is in our European Fine Writing business where traditional stationary stores which make up nearly 40% of our Fine Writing business are under real pressure.
We expect the European pressure on Fine Writing to continue into the second half of the year but to not worsen.
The fourth factor that could influence where we fall in the guidance range is foreign exchange.
Through mid-year we've experienced about $0.01 of adverse EPS impact from ForEx about $0.02 better than what we originally anticipated.
Our guidance assumes the last few days' rates hold for the balance of the year.
If they do EPS will be adversely impacted by about $0.02 more in the second half of the year than what we were anticipating when we previously guided.
So rather than flowing about $0.03 negative in the first half and about $0.02 negative in the second half the ForEx impact was about $0.01 negative in the first half and will be about $0.04 negative in the second half with the skew to Q3.
Importantly when the ForEx pressure just mentioned is coupled with the reversal of our Q3 2011 management incentive plan true-up of about $0.04 which I've mentioned in our previous earnings calls our ability to deliver Q3 2012 EPS growth versus prior year becomes really difficult.
All that said we have a number of positive things happening in the business and despite the challenges and uncertainties articulated we continue to have good visibility to cost and earnings and continue to suggest that the middle of all 4 of our full year guidance ranges reflect our balanced view of what we can achieve in 2011.
With that let me hand over to Juan for a more detailed look at the numbers.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Net sales for the quarter were $1.5 billion a 1.9% decrease versus the prior year.
Core sales which exclude the impact of foreign currency translation increased 0.4% or a 2.3% increase after adjusting for the EMEA SAP pre-buy.
In North America net sales grew 2.2% and core sales grew 2.5% led by very strong growth in our Professional and Baby &amp; Parenting segments.
The Consumer segment's North American core sales were essentially flat in the quarter as challenges in the Dcor business were offset by stronger back-to-school sell-in.
Outside North America net sales decreased 13.1% or 5.4% excluding ForEx.
Both Latin America and APAC which as you know are priority growth markets for us delivered another quarter of double-digit core sales growth with Latin America increasing 14.9% and APAC increasing 12%.
In EMEA core sales declined 20.9% mainly due to the SAP implementation including the previously mentioned pre-buy plus the temporary halt in merchandising efforts related to the cutover period all exacerbated by the impact of the worsening tough macro environment in Western Europe.
Gross margin was 38.3% representing 50 basis point improvement over the prior year ago quarter.
Pricing and productivity more than offset a 90 basis point negative impact from input costs inflation.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense decreased $4 million compared with the prior year and on a percentage of sales basis increased 20 basis points to 24.7%.
A stronger dollar drove $10 million of the expense decrease.
On a constant currency basis SG&amp;A spending was up $6 million all driven by strategic spend which rose 40 basis points as a percentage of sales.
The increased spending focused on demand creation activities in focused growth areas.
Sales force expansion in the Newell Professional segment where we are showing continued strong growth trends was one of those focus areas.
And in our Consumer segment support for the launch of InkJoy and geographic expansion in the Writing business was another.
Reported operating margin of 12.2% compares to 12.7% in the prior year.
The decline is due to increased restructuring and related costs arising from Project Renewal which started flowing through the P&amp;L in Q4 of 2011.
Operating margin for the quarter on a normalized basis increased 40 basis points to 13.7% driven by gross margin expansion.
Interest expense for the quarter was $20.5 million compared with $21.3 million in the previous year which was slightly higher than anticipated due to the timing of debt issuance related to the redemption of $437 million in outstanding junior convertible subordinated debentures related to our 5.25% quarterly income preferred securities most often referred to as QUIPS.
During the quarter we issued $500 million of medium-term notes in 2 tranches: $250 million of 2% 3-year notes and another $250 million of 4% 10-year notes.
We also initiated the redemption of the QUIPS in Q2 and completed this transaction in early Q3.
This refinancing will improve our cost of borrowing over the term of the notes and eliminate any potential earnings dilution associated with the convertible feature of these securities.
We anticipate annualized interest savings of approximately $0.02 per diluted share as a result of this transaction.
Due to the negative carried costs during the notice period the benefit in 2012 is expected to be less than $0.01 per share.
The reported tax rate for the quarter of 32% represents a 17-percentage-point increase over the prior year.
The increase primarily relates to discrete items recorded in each period.
In the current quarter we recorded $11 million in tax charges for the impact of the European transformation plant had on our tax reserves and valuation allowances.
We expect to recognize approximately $7 million in additional related tax charges during the back half of the year.
As you may recall the last year rate includes a $0.07 per diluted share tax benefit related to the reversal of tax contingencies due to the expiration of various worldwide statutes of limitation.
Our normalized tax rate in the second quarter was 25.8% compared with 26% in the prior year quarter.
Operating cash flow in the quarter was $103.1 million or a $10.3 million improvement over the prior year quarter mainly due to lower non-operating working capital.
We are making good progress on our working capital initiatives with a notable 3 days reduction in inventory versus the prior year.
Our progress against payables will begin to show in our DPO in the second half as there are some temporary items that are impacting progress in Q2.
We returned $54 million to shareholders in the form of $29.1 million in dividends and $24.9 million paid for the repurchase of 1.4 million shares.
We have repurchased 5.7 million shares at an aggregate cost of $87.4 million since inception of the program in the third quarter of 2011.
Turning now to our 2012 Outlook.
As Mike covered earlier we are reaffirming our full year guidance.
We expect full year core sales growth of 2% to 3%.
With the dollar strengthening against currencies we're now increasing the expected foreign currency translation impact on sales for the year to an estimated negative 2%.
This assumes average exchange rates for the balance of the year remain around recent spot rates.
We anticipate normalized operating margin to expand by up to 20 basis points.
This guidance reflects our expectation that we will generate gross margin improvement as productivity improved product mix and pricing more than offset inflation and that we increase strategic SG&amp;A spend to support our growth game plan.
We expect interest expense to come in slightly below $80 million with debt reduction to occur in the second half of the year.
Our normalized full year effective tax rate for 2012 is projected to be around 26%.
We expect 2012 normalized earnings per diluted share between $1.63 and $1.69 or about 3% to 6% growth.
This EPS guidance excludes between $110 million and $130 million or $0.27 to $0.32 per diluted share of planned restructuring and restructuring related costs associated with the European transformation plan and Project Renewal as well as $18 million or $0.06 per diluted share related to the 2012 cash tax charges expected to be recorded for the European transformation plan.
Although we still expect about $0.05 per share of unfavorable foreign exchange we now believe the timing of that impact will be largely realized in the back half of the year.
Operating cash flow is expected to be between $550 million and $600 million for the full year including $110 million to $120 million in restructuring and restructuring related cash payment.
Capital expenditures are projected at $200 million to $225 million.
In summary with Q2 behind us in spite of tougher macros in Western Europe our financial outlook on the year remains essentially unchanged.
As is always the case in business we've had some puts and takes.
We're more challenged in certain areas than we initially expected namely in foreign exchange in Europe due to the macro issues and in our Dcor business.
But we also have good momentum in other parts of the portfolio including Baby and in the majority of our Professional business.
So at this point we believe the risks and opportunities are relatively even balanced.
And if things play out the way we see them today that should put us somewhere in the middle of our guidance metrics for the full year.
So in conclusion with our strategy in the early days but gaining momentum our first half results give us confidence in our ability to deliver on our full year guidance.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mike.
Thanks Juan.
It's hard for me to really believe that a year has passed since I started in this role.
Time has just really flown by.
We packed a lot in and I think there's a lot of be proud of.
Despite a very tough environment operational issues on Baby and Dcor SAP implementation in Europe and the change associated with Project Renewal over the past 12 months we've delivered 3% core sales growth expanded normalized operating margin by 50 basis points and increased normalized EPS by 10.7%.
In the same time frame we've strengthened the balance sheet by paying down $0.5 billion of bond maturities increased our access to credit at attractive terms through a new $800 million revolving credit facility improved the capital structure of the company by refinancing our QUIPS at more favorable rates and deployed a more tax-efficient business model into Europe.
We also increased the dividend payout by nearly 53% versus the prior 12 months and returned an additional $87 million to shareholders through our new $300 million 3-year share repurchase authorization.
These outcomes are a credit to the team and demonstrate that we're capable of delivering results driving change and creating value for our shareholders.
All that said my focus is on the future.
I am clear today that the possibilities for Newell Rubbermaid are greater than I imagined when I first took the role last July.
My confidence in our ability to play for the upside strengthens with every hurdle we clear.
I don't expect an easy ride given the state of the global economy.
And as a result we'll continue to assume and build plans that contemplate tough macroeconomic times ahead.
Of course the big picture for Newell stretches well beyond macro pressures with the quarter-to-quarter issues in the business.
The strategic opportunity which is captured in the growth gain plan is significant.
And the ambition to build a larger faster-growing more global more profitable Newell Rubbermaid is there for the taking.
There's no doubt we're on our way but there's much more to do.
We've only just begun to build out our geographic footprint to the faster-growing emerging markets.
We're only getting started on the exciting possibilities of e-commerce and e-brand building.
We've only had our new customer development teams in place for a few months and they're just beginning to make an impact.
And our brands and innovations are hungry for support.
When we get the support on our businesses at the right level and in the right way we see great results.
So a good start for sure but much more opportunity ahead of us than behind us.
The growth game plan has been cascaded deep into our organization and will shape our agenda over the next number of years.
It's about activating a clear set of portfolio of choices reigniting the entrepreneurialism that's in the heart of every one of our brands and building 2 towering capabilities of equal stature -- one focused on the development of our growth ideas and the other focused on execution and creating commercial value from those ideas in the marketplace.
To activate this growth agenda we need to continue to release the trapped capacity for growth.
We've taken the first step to simplifying our organization with Project Renewal but we need to continue to drive out costs that do not create demand.
There is a significant opportunity here and where we have attractive cost reduction ideas that yield a good return and enable more of our resources to be invest invested in growth and strengthened capabilities we are going to take them.
You've seen in our near in plans many of those ideas over the last 12 months and there will be more to share.
Releasing the traffic capacity for growth is inextricably linked to our opportunity to accelerate results and drive shareholder returns to higher levels.
As I hope you can tell I'm excited about playing for the upside at Newell.
We've laid out a clear and aggressive strategy.
Now it's all about decisive leadership strengthened execution and the deployment of the right resources to drive the growth game plan into action.
With that let me open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] So operator we'll take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My first question.
Can you give us just some color on what you think the SG&amp;A ratio for the year is as a percentage of sales? We've said we're going to -- we may end up anywhere between 25.5% and 26%.
I think 26% is what we've said the last time we talked.
We're sort of right in line with that through the first half.
I think our SG&amp;A ratio in the first half is about 25.9%.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up kind of unrelated.
But is there any change -- have you seen any change in either sell-in or sell-through patterns towards the end of the quarter early into July? We had a little bit of stronger sell-in to back-to-school on Writing &amp; Creative Expression than we did last year.
One of our customers made the choice to take their back-to-school -- a portion of their back-to-school inventories earlier than we did last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then no change in the sell-through? It's too early to know in back-to-school.
I mean we're just really kicking in now.
I'm -- look I think the headlines here are we've got better sell-in than we had last year.
We've got better share momentum on the 3 big brands that will get merchandised heavily in back-to-school season which is Sharpie Paper Mate and Expo.
In fact our writing shares as a percent of the total writing market are up nearly 150 basis points in the first half of the year.
And Paper Mate went from being the #3 brand in the total writing category to the #2 brand in that total writing category in the first half.
And we have that momentum sustained right through right through the month of June the last share numbers I saw.
So we're coming into back-to-school and we have better merchandising placements better -- higher displays et cetera.
So we're better positioned.
But as you know it's about converting all that stuff that you do upfront to purchase from the consumer and then it's about our retailers' point of view on their inventory positions as to whether we get replenishment orders after the back-to-school season.
So there's a lot to unfold over the next 3 or 4 weeks 5 weeks.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Mike I think you said that the impact of the lower merchandising on the European business was 2% right? So it was down 4.
It would have been sort of down 2 without the extra merchandising.
Can you talk a little bit about sort of how you're layering the normal level of merchandising back in? And sort of following up on Bill's question are you seeing any difference in the cadence over time in terms of European demand either on an underlying basis sort of either decelerating or accelerating from that standpoint? It's a good question.
Remember what I -- I think I've said this a couple of times along the way.
We're not going to try to make up for lost merchandising from the first half of the year in the second half of the year.
I don't want to do that because I worry about the competitive response to increased frequency of merchandising or greater depth of price points in the second half-year.
So rather than have that money flip into the merchandising when we flip into the back half of the year to increase frequency we're just going to get back into our normal rhythm.
And we are -- I think we'll be fine in terms of being back in that rhythm we are right now than we will through the third quarter and into the fourth year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then sort of any sort of the change in cadence over the course of the quarter or into the third quarter in Europe or is it just all pretty much...
The only underlying -- look there's a lot of pressure in Europe.
And as you recall our sort of underlying declines are around 3% to 3.5% as we exited last year and into the first quarter.
Part of it -- part of the issue in the optics of our numbers in Q2 have to do with the SAP pull forward.
So you don't have to -- I wouldn't overreact to the double-digit decline in EMEA that you see.
So if you adjust out for that it's about an 8% decline in the quarter.
A portion of that has to do with the lack of merchandising.
It's not a small amount so roughly in line with what you said about 2 percentage points.
We have some timing things that happened at the end of the quarter.
We didn't shift the last 3 days of Q2 in Europe as part of our SAP transition in the first hard close in an EPC environment.
So part of that is artificially -- has artificially pressured our results in Q2 as well as in EMEA.
But the fact is that we have some underlying issues in Europe related to the macros and they are most acute in our Fine Writing business.
And what's interesting about it is it's the smaller stores so that represents probably about 40% of our revenue in Europe and it's actually the price points that are less than $100 where we're having the issues.
And it makes intuitive sense if you think about it.
If you're a wealthy person in Europe you have money to spend.
So if you want to buy a $250 or $300 pen you can.
And our business looks fine in that segment.
Our under $100 offerings are sort of tweeners.
It's the best way to describe it between everyday writing instruments and prestige writing instruments.
And that's where the pressure is.
And those tend to get sold at some of the smaller stationary stores which represents about 40% of our business.
That piece of our business is really feeling the heat.
And that accelerated in the first half of the year.
And we've in our guidance range contemplated that for the back half.
But that's something we need to figure out because at the moment despite really strong double-digit growth in Asia on our prestige Fine Writing business we're losing it all giving it all back in Europe on this sort of mid-tier segment that's under pressure.
And that's a real issue.
That's going to cost our roughly 3.5% underlying performance to be worse as it was towards the second half of Q2.
And we have made the assumption that that carries forward with us into the second half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to move to the U.S.
And very recently we've heard a lot of discretionary -- semi-discretionary companies talk about this cadence that Bill and John were referencing except more in the U.S.
right falling off and you've seen demand destruction.
And I noticed kind of in the 4 things you named for what would affect where you landed in your guidance the U.S.
wasn't one of them or U.S.
macro wasn't one of them.
And frankly your U.S.
macro or your U.S.
growth accelerated this quarter right? So exclusive of back-to-school like I get back-to-school sell-in was good but generally your categories your businesses outside of back-to-school I mean what are you seeing in the U.S.? Look part of our professional momentum is driven out of excellent execution on industrial products and services in the Irwin brand so Lenox and Irwin in the U.S.
And so we've seen strengthened momentum there.
Some -- and we have continued momentum on Rubbermaid Medical good double-digit growth.
I really didn't call that out.
And then of course I think the positive data in the second quarter -- the most positive data in the U.S.
in the second quarter has got to be our Baby performance where we're seeing very good consumption gains and share gains despite all the headlines you read.
I don't know if you saw the report this morning on birth rates some negative report on birth rates in the U.S.
suggesting they're at the lowest levels in 25 years.
So despite that and I honestly -- some of these macro issues I tend to -- European things are really acute.
But things like the birth rate data that's just sort of the cost of doing business.
So your brand has got to carry the day.
You have to have better innovations.
And we are starting to see that.
So I think the U.S.
-- I'm pleased with the U.S.
results.
We need the U.S.
to perform well and we're getting that from Baby and from Professional.
We've got some challenges in the Consumer segment aside from our Writing &amp; Creative businesses -- Creative Expression businesses and that's largely in Dcor.
But I can't say that I'm disappointed.
I'm actually pleased and I think part of this is a reflection of the strength of our brands and part of it is the impact -- the early impact of the CDO.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And again I guess as an unrelated follow-up I get -- like it's obviously currency you're offsetting that drag.
Can you talk about commodities.
How was your outlook on commodities changed from last quarter to this quarter? And I'm sorry if you've said it already.
No I mean we've got a slight improvement in our resin outlook for the back half of the year but we still believe we're going to experience about 100 basis points of inflation in the back half an adverse impact in gross margin.
And while resins more favorable we continue to have pressure in metals and source goods and in the other commodities that we're dealing with like paper in the packaging.
But yes moderated because remember we talked about at the beginning of the year about 150 basis points of negative impact in gross margin related to inflation.
Back half of the year we'll be closer to 100 as resin inflation has moderated.
The thing about our resin -- the resin impact for us is we think we see some benefit in Q3 but we don't see much benefit in Q4 at least in our outlook.
And the other thing to note is we lose the pricing leverage in gross margin as we move through Q3 into Q4 because remember most of our pricing benefit in gross margin relates to 2011 pricing actions and the carryforward of that.
So I think our comparisons get a little easier on gross margin in the back half of the year.
I think our gross margin is about where we would hope it would be.
I'm pleased with it the progress.
And we're going to need to count on productivity mix and strategic pricing where we can get it to compensate for what will still be about 100 basis points of inflation in the second half in gross margin albeit less than what we have originally anticipated.
On your ForEx point Chris I mean the thing to note on ForEx is that we're in the range that we suggested we would be on the full year.
We said there would be about $0.04 to $0.05 of impact when we guided back in -- when we first guided back in January.
We actually did better on the ForEx line in the first half year so some of our EPS overdelivery in the first half is related to -- to relative to our forecast -- is related to a more favorable or a less -- the best way to say it it's a less negative impact in the first half than we've originally anticipated.
So it's about $0.01 of adverse ForEx impact in the first half.
The dollar has strengthened since late April pretty substantially.
And I know it's bouncing around quite a bit; it bounces around every day.
But part of that favorability reverses out -- part of that first half favorability versus the guidance reverses out in the second half.
And that's why I've said the flow sort of shifts.
We anticipated $0.03 adverse in the first half $0.02 adverse in the second half in EPS.
And it's really -- it's likely to end up if things hold as they are today $0.01 $0.04.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I would actually just follow up on Chris's question.
As you look at commodities for next year I mean is there a tailwind? Are you looking into kind of locking in some of the costs now? Or are you just going to wait as the year progresses? We've got a pretty -- and I mentioned this Bill.
You and I have talked about this a little bit and I mentioned this on prior calls.
We've got a pretty sophisticated resin buying office here given the amount of resin that we buy.
And so we'll leverage all the options at our disposal that are financially prudent for us to leverage.
We're not going to -- I don't want to be in the trading business or take the risks associated being in the trading business.
But I'm quite happy with the way our resin commodities are bought.
The thing that -- it's more of a drag on us at the moment it's our source goods inflation.
And if you recall from earlier conversations we've had we had a bunch of contracts that expired that were long-term contracts at the beginning of the year and we had to lock in at higher labor rates.
And so as a result you end up with an inflation impact on our source goods that flows through the full year.
And I think at some point you may want to lay out a little more detail how significant our source goods are in cost of goods because it's a pretty important variable for us.
And when we have inflation there we end up with a pretty significant impact on the total company.
So the source goods will be about half of the inflationary pressure on the second half.
It's quite significant.
And on the -- so on the buy forward Bill just to be clear we do go out -- we typically don't go out more than once a year.
We usually go longer on the metals because that's where you have the exchange trade of metals.
You can go longer.
The resin tend to be shorter but this year we have done some into next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a following-up.
We're still kind of new to the 3 categories of Incubate Win Where We Are and I guess Win Everywhere.
I'm just trying to understand...
All the time.
It's where we wanted to be Bill.
It's Win Where We Are it's Incubate and it's Win Bigger.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean how should we look at the fact that Incubate was the fastest growing this quarter? I mean in particular at some point there's infant -- Baby and Infant kind of get out of the Incubate category.
Are they out of the woods? And should I worry that one is growing faster than the other in a given quarter? No I mean there are couple of -- there's a bunch of businesses in there.
I mean Baby is by far the biggest piece of our Incubate categorization.
And as you recall we put Baby in there for a different reason than we put the other ones in there.
We put the Endicia and Mimio and Rubbermaid Medical in there because they really are ventures and we don't want them subsumed into the operations of their bigger parents.
So we want them insulated so that they can build their repeatable growth models.
And they're doing well.
Double-digit growth on Rubbermaid Medical.
Very very strong growth on Endicia which is a competitor to Stamps.com.
Great business.
We were just out there in Palo Alto.
And then Mimio's dealing with all the headwinds associated with the pullback in municipal investment associated with budget management et cetera in the education space.
So we've got 3 different businesses that are insulated as incubators.
And then we've got Baby there.
And we put Baby there because it needed an intervention.
And we made that intervention both at the management team level and then in the reporting structure.
So we brought it directly into me and I've gotten closer to that business than I am in other businesses as a result of the problems we had in the first half of last year.
Strategically I expect us to leave it there for the foreseeable future because despite our efforts to get it back into recovery which we are going to be able to do we have a challenge in our portfolio which is because of the margin structure in this business you would not make a big investment behind it if it caused you to mortgage other Win Bigger categories like our Professional portfolio and our Writing portfolio for the sake of developing the business outside of the markets that it's in.
So obviously I'd love to play for China on Baby -- 18 million births versus a 3 million here.
But until we get that structurally shifted it needs to stay where it is and we need to figure out how to unlock that opportunity because otherwise we won't play for that Chinese opportunity in as big a way as we could.
So that's why it sits in Incubate because it requires a strategic intervention.
It required both an operational intervention which Kristie and her team are well on their way on.
But for the long haul it requires a strategic intervention because even with double-digit OI margins which we are beginning to get towards big step changes in operating income margins which I'm pleased with and Kristie and the team deserve terrific credit so does our partner for enabling and helping us to get there.
But for us to get and play for China we need probably another 300 400 500 basis points of margin in this business.
And so that's going to require a big shift and a real rethink.
And that's what we -- that's why need to leave it in Incubate for the foreseeable future because we've got to get the recovery bedded down.
And we can grow this business without doing what I just described.
But if we really want to play it as the third leg of our Win Bigger strategic agenda we have to find the different mechanism to change the dynamics there.
And so that's why it is where it is and that's why I envision it staying in that categorization for the foreseeable future because it's going to take lot more work to get that piece of the puzzle figured out.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the Baby conversation.
So one was just a surprise at it's still being so strong not just because you've sort of been fairly cautious after the last quarter.
But we had thought there probably have been some effective pull forward just by virtue of how big the Walmart promotion was in Q1.
So can you just talk a little bit about where the surprises were in North America this quarter? I know you're saying the birth rate -- you've got to grow regardless of what the birth rate is.
But this is a dramatic change and not just -- you've got easy comps but you also -- it is a really difficult sequential situation.
Yes.
We've got -- there's 2 things that have happened that were pleasing in the second quarter.
Number 1 and I'll talk outside the U.S.
for a second.
In Q2 of 2011 we saw our first step-up in Aprica performance in Japan.
And probably the most pleasing thing that occurred in Q2 to me as we lapped what was double-digit growth in the prior Q2 period we delivered double-digit growth in the current period.
So Aprica is on a roll.
I mean I think that's one headline I will give to you.
I think it gets tougher as we move through Q3 into Q4 because we're beginning -- I was surprised that our competition hasn't responded very aggressively in Japan yet.
And we know through the normal ways you do competitive intelligence that they're coming with some stuff in Q4.
So we're going to have a tougher comp not just driven by the year-ago comparisons but as a result of in the back half of the year stronger competition.
All that said I love what's going on in our Japanese Baby business.
It's got a great leader there in Mayada-san [ph] working for a great leader in Kristie and these guys are all over it.
So I do think it gets a little bit tougher in the back half of the year but I'm pleasantly surprised by the Q2 results on Aprica.
I mean there's other good news in Baby which is the FastAction innovation and some of the other innovations we've got executing in and flowing into the marketplace in Q2 are having a good impact.
Our POS is up in the U.S.
pretty nicely in the second quarter.
So yes you're right the Baby Days event was a Q1 event which was earlier but we've got -- and so Walmart had a very strong Q1 and hence the comp a less strong Q2.
But we've got momentum in other places in the U.S.
as a result of a really good effort on the part of the customer development organization and strong engagement from the leadership with their retail partners.
And we have better innovation.
So it's the fundamentals that are starting to kick in.
Does competition respond more quickly in the U.S.
than it did in Asia? Probably.
It's a more dynamic market but on balance we're feeling a little bit better about the first half.
Now the only thing I would say about our first half performance is you should recall that the first half of 2011 is by far the easiest comp we're going to have.
So we delivered 13% core sales growth in the first half of 2012 up against 12% declines in the first half of 2011.
So it obviously gets harder from here.
Q3 '11 was a down quarter but not nearly as down as the first half of '11.
And Q4 was an up quarter in 2011.
And so it gets tougher but that's why we pay Kristie the big bucks.
Research Division</strong> And then just following up the profitability there that you were speaking about on the last question so how much of that do you think is really like operational improvement versus better volume leverage? It's combination of both.
I mean we've done a lot of things on the cost side and structural SG&amp;A really quickly.
We're not -- we haven't made a big bet on Baby.
Whether we can hold double-digit operating income margin or not in the second half year on that business actually don't worry about it because I want to make sure we invest to sustain the growth momentum there and get the fixed cost leverage.
So we'll see what happens in the second half year but we're going to start to spend a little bit more behind this business because we have better innovation coming.
We actually have better innovation coming at the end of this year into Europe as well.
So if you look at our business 3 geographies really matter.
It's North America it's Asia but that's really Japan and it's Europe.
2 of the 3 are beginning to do really well.
One is doing extremely well.
One is beginning to get its sea legs that's North America.
Europe is still a drag on the business and that's going to continue until we get to the end of the year when we get the innovation out.
But I want to make sure we're spending enough to make that innovation land with impact and so we may give a little bit it back on operating income margin on that business in the second half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions actually.
First just wanted to go back to the U.S.
for second.
And I know you guys have touched on this a little bit earlier in the call.
But in terms of what you saw on the part of your retailers and their willingness to carry inventory either late in 2Q early 3Q have you noticed an increased cautiousness there at all? Look I mean we -- as you know Joe the thing that impacts revenue is the change in the change in inventory behavior not just the inventory pressure.
There's always inventory pressure on businesses because retailers are -- their key metric is return on the invested capital so it's obviously an important thing for them to leverage.
There the drum beats out there.
I think the negative headlines on the macros tend to cause retailers to be more cautious.
And there we've seen at points in time where our -- because we have visibility to this.
We have POS data.
We know what our retail sales are by customer.
We know what our inventory positions are by customer.
When we get out of balance we see retailers adjusting to get us back in balance so that the rate of inventory growth relative to the rate of sales growth is in sync.
So there's -- in any given moment you've got those normal fluctuations going on.
There are some retailers that are pressing harder in Q2 on inventories but I don't like to talk about it unless it's a huge deal.
We felt that a bit in our Dcor business and we felt that a bit in our Cookware business.
And I suspect in both of those categories in the second half of the year we'll see and feel that kind of pressure continue.
But it will be a question mark on Writing &amp; Creative Expression and it will be reflected in the replenishment orders we get post back-to-school as to whether the office superstores and the mass guys who have taken strong positions upfront whether they are as confident in the category sustaining its growth rate going beyond back-to-school.
And that will influence the choices they make.
So we have to be prepared for that risk at the end of Q3 and into Q4 in Writing &amp; Creative Expression.
And we can't control it so we just try to manage the sell-in against what we think the sell-through is going to be so that we get the consumption to play out and we get that balance such that we get the replenishment orders.
But it's not science; it's art.
And we can get that wrong and we won't know how that story is going to play out until the consumption the sell-through occurs in the month of August into the middle of September.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then on the SG&amp;A line the strategic investment this quarter I think it was up 40 bps.
It was up 90 bps in the first quarter.
What are you expecting for the second half and what's baked into your guidance? We don't guide on -- and I haven't really commented Joe on the forward-looking numbers.
That said we've begun to invest renewal savings in the second quarter behind selling systems in Latin America largely on the Professional business but also on Writing in Brazil.
And we will begin to broaden that investment to include the investment behind the creation of new digital assets for our e-brand building and e-commerce initiatives in the Consumer segment.
But I'm cautious about going hog wild on that investment until I see how the macros play out.
I'm more conservative here than maybe you guys think I am.
I'm not going to throw the money out there until I'm really sure.
Now that said I would expect strategic SG&amp;A to be up in the second half of the year versus prior year.
The one thing I would say in some of those numbers is you have to remember that part of that will reflect the true-up dynamics on our management incentive programs versus prior year.
So it's not all working money because remember our product marketing folks and our selling resources are in strategic SG&amp;A.
So last year we paid out our bonuses very low.
We've got the true-up that's in our back half numbers in the third quarter and that a part of that not all of it but a part of that is sitting in strategic SG&amp;A.
So some of the increases that you might see will be sort of artifacts of that dynamic.
Your next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just would like to go through looking at the Professional and Baby &amp; Parenting.
You had revenue increases in Professional from quarter to quarter from first quarter to second quarter and flat in Baby &amp; Parenting.
And yet the operating income in each declined so the contribution pull-through didn't look like it was there.
Can you kind of maybe give us a little bit of drill-down as to where that was and what caused the operating income to decline in each of those? Yes I think the thing to remember Budd is that on the reported numbers you have the SAP effect so you have the revenue that has been shifted.
And the gross profit obviously that was connected to that revenue shifted from Q2 to Q1.
But to be -- so that's a big chunk of it and probably the most significant chunk of it on Baby.
On Tools though we are investing in selling systems -- on Professional sorry we're investing in selling systems largely in Latin America -- Brazil on our Tools business across Latin America on IP&amp;S in China on IP&amp;S in Latin America on Commercial.
And we are also putting some money behind Rubbermaid Medical in terms of selling resources in the U.S.
So the drag on operating income margin once you net out the SAP effect on the Professional portfolio is related to those investments.
And that's part of that Renewal money that's going into that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just to be clear if I parse those out of the expenses into gross profit or cost of goods sold and SG&amp;A you're saying in Professional it's basically the strategic SG&amp;A investment that's building it? In Baby &amp; Parenting it was a reduction in gross margin due to the SAP shift? Is that the way to look at it? Yes -- no gross margin didn't go down.
It's absolute -- it's about the absolute -- it's about the fixed cost leverage of not having the revenue and gross profit dollars in Q2 on Baby.
On Professional it's a combination of that and what I described as the incremental SG&amp;A that we put -- strategic SG&amp;A that we put behind the business.
So it's 2 things on the Professional portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mike I guess I just want to first talk about -- I know the layout of the year was the first and fourth quarters are going to be strongest.
So from a sales perspective and the kind of the buckets that you've laid out for some of the incremental pressures it feels like the third quarter sales will probably come in a little bit lighter than expectations just because of the Dcor business and the turnaround there.
So as you think to the fourth quarter on the Consumer side are there any incremental merchandising plans that you have in place? And I guess what gives you that confidence that the sales can really accelerate especially when you have the toughest comp? And then I just have a couple of follow-ups.
:p id="79344716" name="Michael Polk" type="E" /&gt; Yes I mean we've got a good underlying share momentum in our businesses for the most part.
So if I look -- I think that's one of the big contributors on the Consumer side as to why you'd expect the momentum to continue.
Remember InkJoy just began to sell in the second half of the year.
So we've got some dynamics like that that are positive.
We've got a dynamic on Calphalon where we have to lap the inventory pipeline on JCPenney.
And we've got the JCPenney issues on Dcor that will be offsets to that.
We've got good merchandising plans set on Rubbermaid Consumer.
Remember we were shutting down one of the big Rubbermaid Consumer factories and moving machinery from Texas to Kansas and Ohio in the second quarter.
So we weren't really pressing that business very hard because you disrupt availability.
And we've created capacity dynamic.
And the service issue we wouldn't want to do.
So we've got that transition which in the factory landscape that we've executed in Q2 that's behind us so we have a little bit more flexibly on Rubbermaid Consumer in the second half of the year.
And I would expect us to be able to deliver some more progress.
So I mean there's a lot of different moving parts in our numbers.
And then we've got Baby momentum.
So Baby is certainly stronger than a year ago in Q3 and we'll have to see about Q4 how that plays out.
We don't buy by quarter Jason as you know but I think that we should -- you should think about what we said with respect to our full year guidance along those 4 -- along the 4 different metrics that we guide on.
And hopefully we can do a little bit better on some of them.
But at this point I think that's a good reference point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then I'm wondering if you could provide some update on One Newell.
I know that's probably a couple of months under your belt but maybe just some of the wins some of the learnings along the way that have come in maybe better than expected? Yes so with Project Renewal is the first step in simplifying our structures and we're seeing the benefits of that beginning to flow through.
We did some important things that were tough for the organization in Q4 and into Q1 of 2013 on the GBU architecture and group design.
And those are largely done and behind us.
We then shifted our focus in Q2 to the manufacturing and distribution center component of Project Renewal.
And we've done the factory closure which obviously was quite traumatic in Texas for people.
And we've moved the equipment now and are starting up that equipment in Kansas and in Ohio in those factories.
And that's been exciting and disruptive but positive.
And so we're focused on the manufacturing distribution center side of things.
And then we've got some more to do to close off Renewal in the back half of the year and into next year to put a punctuation point on that.
That's Project Renewal.
When we talk to you about One Newell initiatives that's above and beyond Project Renewal.
And what that's about is about improving the indirect procurement costs in our business and getting on with the working capital opportunities.
And that is nothing to do with restructuring.
That has to do with really tightening down on how we spend our money.
One piece of that is the indirect procurement partnership that we formed with IBM to access their $50 billion buying pool and that's focused on U.S.
indirect procurement which if you recall is $1.2 billion of spend.
And that's where we said we would expect to get $50 million of savings by 2013.
We're making great progress there.
I'm really happy with the work and the team that's leading it and the energy that it's created within the total organization.
And the working capital opportunity that Juan talked about at Analyst Day we're just beginning to get into.
I'm pleased with our inventory management in the first half of the year.
It's down $70 million versus prior year and that's because we're focused on it and part of our incentive schemes are focused on quarterly delivery of improvements.
And so we're really kind of wiring that one down and we're making some good progress on payables.
As we exit Q2 into Q3 Q4 we'll make some good progress on payables as we put some new programs in place there.
And so all those things are playing out.
And we have a lot more work to do in both areas so I don't want to -- I think it's premature to suggest that we're anywhere near.
Just kind of making it down in a 100-yard sprint we're sort of in the 20-yard line on indirect procurement probably on the 10-yard line on the working capital.
But that's fallen out and it's -- I think the organization sees the opportunity and smells it.
We're all on the same incentive schemes so that we have skin in the game on the outcome everyone of us.
And so we're all pulling the oars in the same direction to make it happen.
Your final question will come from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is already answered.
This concludes our question-and-answer period.
If we were unable to get to your question please call the Investor Relations team at (770) 418-7075.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for any concluding remarks.
My last comment I guess would be simply that I characterize the first half of 2012 as a step in the right direction.
I'm really pleased that we're starting to get this business back into a consistent cadence of delivery.
And the real opportunity going forward is to pivot the organization and its resources against the growth game plan and start to activate that game plan and drive it into action.
So with that I think we'll just call it to close and we'll talk to you soon.
Thanks.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 with an access code of 10707444 starting 2 hours following the end of today's call.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Thanks Mackenzie.
Good morning.
Welcome to our Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
With me this morning are Newell Rubbermaid's President and CEO Mike Polk; and Doug Martin our Executive VP and CFO.
Let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of performance.
Risk factors that may impact these statements are discussed in the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K and in today's earnings release.
Our press release and this call also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures including but not limited to normalized operating margin and normalized earnings per share.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is provided in our earnings release and is available on the Investor Relations section at newellrubbermaid.com.
Thanks and now I'll turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
We have 3 objectives this morning.
First we'll review our third quarter results and provide our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Second we'll discuss the announced expansion of Project Renewal and the 5 new work streams that will accelerate our transformation.
And third we'll discuss the significant change in our organization design in my leadership team that will enable us to unlock the upside of the Growth Game Plan.
This new organization design aligns our resources to our 2 key activity systems the work we do to develop our brands and categories and the work we do to ensure best-in-class execution and delivery.
The new organization and leadership we've announced is designed to strengthen our business on both dimensions and lead to accelerated performance.
Our track record of solid results and our demonstrated ability to drive delivery while simultaneously driving change gives us the confidence to now accelerate the pace of change to more quickly realize our ambition of becoming a bigger faster-growing more global more profitable Newell Rubbermaid.
A sign of our strength in performance and growing confidence is this morning's announcement of a 50% increase in our dividend a step change that takes us to the high end of our stated dividend payout ratio target range of 30% to 35%.
This is the second dividend increase we've announced this year and the third in the last 2 years which reflects the board's confidence in the company's strong cash generation ability and in the potential of our Growth Game Plan.
Our new annualized dividend of $0.60 per share is up from $0.20 a share at the beginning of 2011 and now reflects a dividend yield of nearly 3% at yesterday's share price.
There's a lot to talk about so let's get into the results.
We've reported a solid set of third quarter numbers that represent a positive step towards delivery of our full year results in line with our guidance.
Net sales were $1.54 billion in line with consensus.
Core sales grew 1.5%.
Normalized earnings per share were $0.47 $0.03 higher than consensus and 4.4% better than our year-ago results.
And gross margin improved by 50 basis points to 37.9%.
Normalized operating income margin was flat to prior year at 13.7% with the increasing gross margin offset by an absence of compensated-related benefits in the year-ago numbers.
Operating cash flow was strong at just over $300 million.
Looking at our results through the first 9 months core sales have grown 2.2%.
Normalized operating income margins up 20 basis points to 12.9%.
Normalized EPS is $1.27 up 6.7% versus prior year and operating cash flow is over $357 million up over 27% versus prior year.
Let's take a look now at segment results.
Our core sales growth in the Consumer group declined 40 basis points.
This is actually a sequential improvement versus the first half run rate.
Year-to-date the Consumer group's core sales have declined 1.2%.
Our strong Writing &amp; Creative Expressions results continued in Q3 but were offset by macro-driven headwinds in our Fine Writing business in Europe and our ongoing challenges at J.C.
Penney and Dcor in North America.
I want to recognize the Writing &amp; Creative Expressions team for a successful Back-to-School season.
They checked all 3 boxes selling in Q2 followed by sell-through and replenishment in Q3.
This year we exceeded last year's replenishment orders which along with great sell-through results contributed to a strong Writing outcome in the third quarter of 2012.
Total Writing category POS was up nearly 5% in the Back-to-School window with Newell brands driving over 60% of the category growth.
Our Professional segment delivered core sales growth of 2.5% in the third quarter despite having lapped a very strong prior year quarter in which we reported core growth of 7.5%.
Year-to-date Professional core sales have increased 4.3%.
Professional growth is especially strong in North America with share gains in most of our categories.
North America Professional core sales grew over 4% in the quarter and are up over 5% year-to-date.
We are seeing softness in Western Europe and Australia New Zealand on Irwin and Dymo as general macroeconomic concerns resulted in more difficult sell-in and sell-through.
This offset some of the North American momentum.
Baby &amp; Parenting had another strong quarter.
Q3 core sales growth was 7.8%.
Year-to-date Baby core sales growth is over 10%.
Baby's performed well all year due to very strong core sales in Asia as a result of the terrific new item performance on Aprica in Japan and strengthening results in North America fueled by better collaboration with customers and stronger Graco innovation.
Year-to-date for the total company we continue to deliver strong emerging market core sales growth of about 12%.
Core growth in Asia Pacific is over 13% and we have over 12% core growth in Latin America.
The developed world has grown about 1% with competitive levels of U.S.
growth of 2.3% partially offset by weak performance in EMEA where core growth has declined nearly 5%.
Given the challenges in Dcor the U.S.
growth is quite strong with the combined Baby &amp; Professional businesses delivering year-to-date U.S.
growth of over 6%.
Let me now make a few comments on the balance of the year.
As a reminder we've guided full year core sales to increase between 2% to 3%.
Normalized operating margin to increase up to 20 basis point normalized EPS to increase 3% to 6% or in the $1.63 to $1.69 range and operating cash flow of between $550 million and $600 million.
As you know from our press release we have reaffirmed our full year guidance across all 4 guidance metrics.
Given the strong earnings performance in the third quarter we now have a pretty good line of sight to the top of our normalized EPS guidance range.
The key factors that will influence the outcome on normalized EPS and normalized operating margin will be the degree to which we accelerate brand-building investment in the fourth quarter.
As we've discussed we knew it would be a tough third quarter to deliver EPS growth because we were comping against unique compensation-related benefits in the year-ago numbers.
In that context we throttled back a bit on brand-building investment versus prior year.
As we progress through the fourth quarter we will start to invest more in an effort to strengthen our core growth momentum as we exit the year.
Beyond brand-building investment levels there are 2 factors that could influence core sales growth in the balance of the year.
The first factor is the continued momentum of our growth businesses in quarter 4 as they lap step-ups in year-ago performance.
We've assumed Baby &amp; Parenting and Writing &amp; Creative Expression are able to grow on top of prior year growth.
Combined these businesses grew core sales roughly 5% in quarter 4 2011.
The second factor is the impact of macroeconomic fiscal policy and political uncertainty in the U.S.
and Western Europe as we exit 2012.
We are less concerned about near-term consumer response to the uncertainty believing we captured that appropriately in our guidance.
However we are less able to predict changes in retail behavior given the macro uncertainties and the potential for retailers to draw down inventories more than they typically would do to manage their key year-end metrics.
At this point Doug will provide more detail on our financial results and importantly take you through our announced expansion of Project Renewal.
Thanks to the hard work and dedication of everyone here at Newell we've made significant progress over the past 9 months since we unveiled the Growth Game Plan.
This progress gives us the confidence to press with more urgency towards the Growth Game Plan's acceleration stage.
The expansion of Project Renewal is critical to unlocking our full growth potential.
Based on our progress to date I'm confident we can go further and faster than we originally intended.
Over to you Doug and then I'll return to discuss our new organization design and leadership appointments.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'll spend the next few minutes covering our third quarter results and our outlook for the year.
After that I'll walk you through some of the details on the expansion of Project Renewal.
I'm going to start with Q3.
Total company recorded net sales for the quarter were $1.54 billion a 0.9% decrease versus the prior year with core sales increasing 1.5% excluding 240 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency.
Reported net sales in our Consumer segment decreased 2.1%.
Core sales which exclude 170 basis points of negative currency fell 0.4% representing a sequential improvement from our first half results.
Normalized operating margin for this segment increased 180 basis points to 17.3% with price and productivity driving improved gross margins and the deferral of certain brand-building investments from Q3 into Q4 contributing to lower SG&amp;A.
In our Professional segment Q3 reported net sales declined 1.1% with core sales which exclude 360 basis points of unfavorable currency increasing by 2.5%.
Operating margin declined 240 basis points to 13.2%.
This reflects our investment in marketing activity around our Irwin National Tradesmen Day as well as strategic sales force and feet on the street initiatives intended to drive future growth.
In our Baby segment Q3 reported net sales rose 5.2% with core sales which exclude 260 basis points of negative currency increasing by 7.8%.
Q3 normalized operating margin was essentially flat to last year at 9.9%.
Looking at our Q3 sales by geography.
North America core sales grew 1.1% led by the Baby &amp; Parenting and Professional segments which were collectively up 4.7%.
In EMEA core sales declined 2.8% slightly better than the SAP adjusted run rate for the past several quarters but still reflecting ongoing macroeconomic weakness in Western Europe.
We're getting good growth however in emerging markets like Russia and Middle East and Africa.
In Latin America core sales increased 11.3% driven by continued solid growth in our Tools Commercial Products and Writing businesses.
In Asia Pacific core sales grew 6.3%.
Australia and New Zealand sales were down in the quarter as the consumers become increasingly more cautious and price-sensitive due to a slowing economy.
And though we are continuing to see good growth from Aprica Japan we are beginning to see some more competitive activity that is the potential for moderating growth going forward.
Our Q3 gross margin was 37.9% which represents a 50 basis point improvement year-over-year.
Productivity and pricing more than offset a 50 basis point negative impact from input cost inflation.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense increased $4.1 million compared to the prior year and on a percentage of sales basis increased 50 basis points to 24.2%.
A strong dollar reduced year-over-year expense by $11.5 million so on a constant currency basis SG&amp;A was actually up $15.6 million than the prior year.
Higher strategic SG&amp;A spending on sales force expansion and focused growth areas was offset by the year-over-year comparison against last year's Q3 when we recorded a benefit from our incentive compensation true-up.
As Mike mentioned in Q4 we expect to ramp up discretionary spending behind our brands.
Reported Q3 operating margin of 12.3% compares with negative 12.4% in the year-ago period.
Last year we recorded $382.6 million in asset impairment charges that did not repeat this year.
On a normalized basis Q3 operating margin was flat year-over-year at 13.7% of sales.
Q3 reported earnings per share were $0.37 compared with a loss of $0.61 in the prior period.
Normalized earnings per share which exclude restructuring and restructuring-related cost as well as certain onetime items was $0.47.
That's $0.03 ahead of consensus and 4.4% better than a year ago.
About $0.01 of the year-over-year improvement was driven by lower share count with the remainder of the increase being attributed to lower interest and other income.
Interest expense in the quarter was $18 million compared to $21.8 million in the previous year.
If you recall in Q2 we refinanced our outstanding quarterly income preferred securities with lower-cost medium-term notes.
These will generate annualized interest savings of about $0.02 per share going forward.
The Q3 reported tax rate was 35.3% compared with a negative 24.4% in the prior year period.
Year-over-year the change in reported tax rate was primarily driven by the geographic mix of earnings and discrete items recorded in each of the quarters.
In the third quarter of 2012 the company's effective tax rate increased; and in the third quarter of 2011 the effective tax rate decreased both as a result of recording certain tax contingencies the resolution of tax audits and the expiration of various worldwide statutes of limitation.
Our normalized tax rate in the third quarter was 28.9% compared with 28.2% in the prior year.
Operating cash flow in the quarter was $301.5 million a $6.2 million improvement over the prior year quarter.
We're making good progress in our working capital initiatives with a 3-day reduction in inventory days and a 1.5-day improvement from payables versus the prior year.
We also returned $55 million to shareholders in the form of $29.1 million in dividends and $25.9 million paid for the repurchase of approximately 1.5 million shares.
Since we initiated the share repurchase plan in Q3 of 2011 we have repurchased 7.1 million shares at an aggregate cost of $113.3 million.
Turning now to our 2012 outlook.
As Mike mentioned earlier we are reaffirming our full year guidance on all 4 key metrics: Core sales normalized operating margin normalized earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Based on our year-to-date results and our current view into Q4 we believe we will come in near the high end of the earnings per share range and in the lower half of the core sales growth range.
With year-to-date cash flow improvement of $77 million we're also on track to deliver operating cash flow within our guidance range of $550 million to $600 million.
We project interest expense to come in between $75 million and $80 million for the year.
Our normalized full year effective tax rate for 2012 is projected to be around 26%.
Now I'd like to shift gears a little bit and talk about the expansion of Project Renewal.
We have an opportunity to accelerate growth by going after cost more aggressively to fund investment behind our Win Bigger businesses.
Achieving growth requires bigger investments in people and in capabilities like brand support design innovation and better tools for execution.
We know we don't have enough money invested in growth and this is how we're going to get it.
Today we announced an expansion of Project Renewal which encompasses several critical efficiency projects to further unlock trapped capacity for growth and free up funds for investment.
We are focused on 5 key work streams.
The first is organizational simplification.
We will create a flatter more efficient structure that will free up structural cost for reinvestment behind brands to fuel growth.
It will also offer a better -- it will also offer better direct visibility into the business and promote better informed and faster decision-making.
Mike will discuss this in more detail shortly.
The second area is further EMEA transformation.
We will make a step-change reduction in complexity in order to improve profitability.
These resources will be funneled to Win Bigger businesses globally to fuel growth.
The broader areas we are looking at include SKU rationalization route to market supply chain and platform support.
The third area is best cost finance.
A new simplified organization structure that will enable One Newell approaches to transaction processing and information management.
Other opportunities exist in shared services to leverage SAP to move people resources from reporting and compliance to more value-added analytics and decision support.
The fourth area is best cost back office including consolidated customer service and procurement that offers opportunities to achieve One Newell efficiencies across back office functions.
And finally there are several supply chain footprint opportunities to optimize manufacturing and distribution globally.
This expansion of Project Renewal will generate incremental annualized cost savings of $180 million to $225 million by the middle of 2015 and will affect just over 10% of our current workforce.
The majority of the savings will be reinvested in programming to accelerate growth and strengthen brand-building and selling capabilities in our Win Bigger businesses and our Win Bigger geographies.
We expect to incur a cash cost of $225 million to $250 million related to the renewal expansion and record total charges of $250 million to $275 million over the same period of time.
We've made good progress in the first phase of renewal and are on track to capture $90 million to $100 million in savings by our target date of Q2 2013.
This has been a fast payback project and a necessary first step to simplify our structure and free up resources.
The success of Phase 1 gives us the confidence that we can take this next larger step.
It too will be a fast payback and will result in a structure that is fully aligned with the Growth Game Plan.
So with our balance sheet in good shape ongoing operating cash flow can comfortably fund the CapEx required to support our growth plans cash needs for the expansion of Project Renewal a dividend in the 30% to 35% payout range and continuing steady progress on share repurchase under our $300 million authorization.
In summary while we continue to face business and macroeconomic challenges in parts of our portfolio we are pleased with our results year-to-date and remain confident in our ability to meet our full year commitments.
We continue to have good momentum across much of the business.
We are also executing against plans to mitigate and overcome challenges where they exist.
All the while we remain focused on the Growth Game Plan and unlocking cost in order to invest in our brands and selling infrastructure to drive sustainable growth as we move forward.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mike.
Thanks Doug.
As I said earlier today we're launching a major transformation of the company design to drive the Growth Game Plan into action more boldly and more rapidly.
Over the next couple of years we will both simplify and enhance the way we do business to accelerate our drive to make Newell Rubbermaid a bigger faster-growing more global more profitable company.
This morning we announced a new organization model and strengthened leadership including top outside appointments to my executive team.
We are reorganizing the company around the first 2 pillars of our Growth Game Plan brand and category development where we strive to make our brands really matter; and best-in-class execution and delivery where we're building an execution powerhouse.
The new development organization will be accountable for building big brand ideas high-impact disruptive innovation and a true point of difference through superior design and product experience.
All of the company's marketing insight design R&amp;D and corporate development talent will be part of the new development organization.
The new delivery organization will be accountable for P&amp;L management and delivering the maximum commercial value from the growth ideas built by the development organization.
The delivery team will place much greater emphasis on building true strategic partnerships with our customers and suppliers optimizing supply chain efficiencies across the company while also building our go-to-market capabilities in the emerging markets.
All of the company's general management supply chain customer and channel development talent will be part of the new delivery organization.
I'm confident this new model will strengthen our performance.
When I joined Unilever in 2003 that organization looked very much like our current Newell Rubbermaid structure.
In 2006 we deployed a similar organization model to the one we've announced at Newell today.
I held top leadership roles in both the delivery and the development pillars of that company and I know from experience that this model works.
It creates focus on both the important work of developing brands and building disruptive innovation and the urgent work of day-to-day delivery.
And through that focus does not allow the urgent delivery issues to overwhelm and dilute the important brand growth work as often happens in a single point of accountability models like the one we have today at Newell and Unilever had in 2006.
The model we are now moving to drove significantly improved performance at my former company and it will do the same at Newell Rubbermaid.
At the same time strengthening Newell's development and delivery capabilities we will noticeably flatten our structures giving bigger roles to key leaders and driving simplification throughout the organization to focus on growth.
The company will start by delayering the top of the organization eliminating the Professional and Consumer groups while further consolidating the global business units from 9 GBUs to 6 business segments.
The 6 new business segments: Tools Commercial Products Writing Baby &amp; Parenting Home Solutions and Specialty will be part of the delivery organization.
The brand alignments to these new business segments are disclosed online and we will report our financial results against these new segments starting with our 2012 year-end results.
In the context of the new organization we've made a series of new leadership appointments to my team.
Mark Tarchetti the former Head of Global Strategy at Unilever will join the company in January as Chief Development Officer and lead the new development organization.
Originally from the U.K.
Mark is the founder of the international consulting firm Tarchetti &amp; Co.
has been working closely with the me and the leadership team over the last year to develop the Growth Game Plan.
Prior to starting his own consulting firm Mark spent 14 years at Unilever in a variety of senior strategy business and finance roles culminating in being appointed the Head of Global Corporate Strategy reporting directly to Paul Polman Unilever CEO and driving the development of the company's new corporate strategy with the top executive team.
Bill Burke currently Group President Newell Professional has been appointed Chief Operating Officer and will lead the new delivery organization.
Bill has a proven track record of outstanding leadership and consistent growth in his 10 years at Newell Rubbermaid including leading and repositioning the Lenox brand to deliver double-digit sales growth and leading the company's Professional businesses to accelerate international expansion.
Bill's businesses have been the growth engine of the company over the last few years.
Bolstering Bill's delivery organizations our 2 new additions to the Newell executive team.
Joe Cavaliere will join the company as Chief Customer Officer reporting to Bill.
Joe has 29 years of experience in customer development and brings an outstanding track record of delivering growth developing strategic customer partnerships and building world-class customer development capabilities.
He is currently the Head of Customer Development for Unilever in North America and before that was one of the top leaders at Kraft Foods.
Joe has led the transformation of Unilever's customer development capabilities over the last 9 years.
I recruited him to Unilever from Kraft have known and worked with him for many years prior to that and I'm thrilled that he has chosen to join Newell to lead customer development globally as part of the delivery organization.
The company will also appoint a Chief Supply Chain Officer who will report to Bill.
This executive who we will announce in the coming weeks brings nearly 30 years of supply chain experience the last 8 in senior leadership positions at a large industrial products company.
Our new supply chain leader will drive sharper execution and delivery to our sourcing distribution and transportation customer and consumer services manufacturing and planning disciplines.
In development we've strengthened Mark's team with 2 new appointments as well.
Richard Davies will join the company as Chief Marketing and Insights Officer.
Richard is leaving his role as the head of Unilever's Global Insights function where he leads more than 700 people in over 50 countries.
Originally from New Zealand Richard brings over 30 years of marketing insights and brand-strategy experience to Newell.
Richard's proven track record of creating brands and bringing innovation to consumers combined with his experiences living and working in markets around the world make him an ideal leader to raise the bar on our marketing and innovation agenda.
The marketing and insights talent currently in the business segments will report to Richard.
Richard's partner in new product development will be Chuck Jones our recently announced Chief Design and R&amp;D officer.
Both Richard and Chuck will report to Mark.
The R&amp;D industrial graphic and interaction design talent currently in the business segments will report to Chuck.
Bill Mark Joe our new Chief Supply Chain Officer Richard and Chuck together with our current functional leaders will all be members of my Newell executive team.
I could not be more excited about partnering with these leaders as we drive the next phase of our transformation and growth.
They're all recognized as among the top in their respective fields and they will all be key contributors to my leadership team.
Most importantly they all see the same transformational opportunity to build something bigger and better at Newell Rubbermaid through the Growth Game Plan.
The fact that our new teammates have chosen to leave big roles with broad responsibilities to join Newell Rubbermaid is a very strong validation of our potential.
As the result of the structure changed Penny McIntyre our currently Group President Newell Consumer will leave the company to pursue other opportunities.
I wish Penny the best in her future endeavors and thank her for all of her tremendous efforts and accomplishments during her time with Newell.
In addition Ted Woehrle Chief Marketing Officer; and Paul Boitmann Chief Customer Development Officer will be leaving the company.
I also want to thank Ted and Paul for their service leadership and impact and wish them continued success as they also pursue opportunities outside Newell Rubbermaid.
We've covered a lot of ground today.
So let me summarize.
We delivered a solid set of results in the third quarter and are well on our way to delivering our full year guidance across all 4 of our full year guidance metrics.
We've announced a 50% increase in the quarterly dividend that brings us to the high end of our targeted dividend payout ratio range.
With the on-time and in-full completion of the first phase of Project Renewal right around the corner in the first half of 2013 we've announced the expansion of Project Renewal.
The expansion of Renewal has 5 new work streams that will by the middle of 2015 generate $180 million to $225 million of incremental savings over that 2.5-year period.
We've announced a simpler flatter organization model that recognizes -- reorganizes the company around the first 2 pillars of the Growth Game Plan with our structure now aligned to our strategy.
And we've appointed a new Newell executive team with a tremendous blend of top talent from both within Newell Rubbermaid and from the outside.
I see more potential in our business today than I imagined upon joining the company 15 months ago and I'm energized by the choices we're making the team we're building and the opportunity that lies ahead.
Our people have proven to me they're capable of driving delivery while simultaneously driving change.
By increasing the pace of our transformation we will more quickly realize the Growth Game Plan ambition of building a bigger faster-growing more global more profitable Newell Rubbermaid.
With that let me open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital Markets.
So on these 5 streams can you allocate the percentage of savings you expect to get from the each one of them? Connie this is Doug.
We will be giving more color on the total Project Renewal restructuring or the expansion pieces of it on the call in January.
Okay.
And then what about the timing of the cost and the savings? I mean it says throughout the life of the program.
But it seems like a lot of the change has been made now the new reporting structure happens right around the corner.
So can you give us a little color on that? Yes that will be some of the changes will be happening the ones that Mike mentioned.
It's a relatively small piece of the total though that will happen in the next couple of months between now and year end.
Most of the activity will begin occurring beginning in the second quarter of next year and then the different work streams will roll out after that.
Again we'll give you a little more color on that as we get into January timeframe.
But I'd remind you that we do intend to reinvest these savings in the business as they're generated to further drive growth.
Connie just want to build on that.
The structural change at the top happens immediately.
And so within the -- certainly my direct reports that change will happen -- happens effective today.
Some of the folks will start to report later in the fourth quarter into the beginning of next year.
But we're going to get on with that structure.
And in fact we're meeting later this afternoon with the -- in the global webcast to dimensionalize that for folks.
I think the people savings will skew towards the front end some of the structural stuff that we need to do.
The supply chain will be spread out over the duration and that won't kick in -- the supply chain work won't kick in for a while.
We need to give our new Chief Supply Chain Officer the opportunity to own some of those choices although we've got a pretty clear view of what we need to go through.
So you'll see the savings in the cost spread over that 2.5-year window with the organizational work done earlier and the structural supply chain work done later in that 2.5-year window.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I guess you guys are set up now with call it cumulatively $300 million in savings which is like $0.75 a share on $1.70 earnings base like 5 points of margin.
I guess the question is with that $300 million number I mean can you bucket what the reinvestment could look like right? Because given what you spend on things like R&amp;D on marketing right on your selling organization it sounds like the reinvestment of that would be multiples of what you spend now right? I'm just wondering if you could just provide a little color and insight just to help us kind of dimensionalize this stuff.
So Chris it is the key question that we are asking ourselves.
How much of that flows in and how much of that flows to EPS? Clearly the intent of -- behind doing this is to unlock the upside in the Growth Game Plan which is all about shifting our SG&amp;A dollars from structural cost to investment behind our brands.
And we've said the majority of the spend will go into brand spending.
We haven't said all of it will however.
So what this does for us is it releases the cost and gives us the opportunity to invest for faster growth and for the geographic expansion of our leading brands at the same time it's providing a greater line of sight to earnings and operating cash flow growth.
So this is the key next step in unlocking the trapped capacity for growth but also provides that line of sight.
We won't spend money unless we're spending money behind ideas that are going to create growth.
So I'm not -- and you've seen my behavior over the last 15 months.
Money flows to ideas.
And so it's really important for the new leadership structure that we've announced and for the new leadership team to get in here as quickly as possible and for us to really galvanize our -- around the set of choices that weren't good investment.
Clearly the portfolio role choices that we've made the definition of our Win Bigger categories the choice to in the disciplined and deliberate way build out our geographic footprint into a higher growth -- faster-growing emerging markets.
Those will all be filters through which we make the choices of what to invest in.
And so if you're looking -- as you get greater visibility into our business through the segment reporting we'll do and as you're thinking about how you build your view forward I would use those filters.
I would apply a disproportionate amount of the investment against the Win Bigger businesses and the Win Bigger geographies as Doug said.
Now we're not going to provide quarterly guidance and I do think you need to be careful in terms of how you think about the flow of savings into your models and into whatever you do with respect to your projections on EPS.
Effectively the flow of savings will mirror the flow of savings over the next 2.5 years will mirror the flow of savings over the last 12 months.
The cost and the benefits over the next 2.5 years effectively are the same cost and benefits that we've experienced over the last 12 months with renewal if you think about it.
And that's I think in a broad sense the way I would look at this with us investing only in the things that we believe in believe will yield a sustainable growth return.
Just a reminder Chris as well as we've generated savings this year from Project Renewal we have begun investing in selling systems and we've talked about that.
So an increase -- and we've also increased strategic spend as we've gone throughout the year on a year-over-year basis by about 50 basis points.
So you'll see that shift within SG&amp;A.
But Chris the things to look at in our portfolio that we'll bet on Writing we'll bet on Commercial Products we'll bet on Tools.
Those are all our Win Bigger categories.
We'll bet on Latin America and then -- because we believe that we need to develop our business south and east.
And eventually we'll bet on China and Southeast Asia.
But we'll do it in a deliberate way in a disciplined way that lives up to our commitment to also deliver steady operating income margin improvement.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess an unrelated follow-up.
I mean yes I think it's great you got the payout ratio up to 35%.
But looking ahead right that still leaves 65%.
And I think you've said that tack-ons or acquisitions are really not what you're looking at right now.
I mean should we assume that buyback is really where the destination for the remainder of your cash generation? Look we believe in the Growth Game Plan.
As I've said that over the last 12 months the focus of the Growth Game Plan is on organic growth.
But that over time we will open our mind to bolt-on acquisitions that are focused strategically against our growth agenda.
But now is not the right moment for us to be doing that.
So as you look at our capital allocation strategy over a 5-year window you shouldn't simply shut down that path to making Newell into a bigger more profitable faster-growing company.
That said there's nothing transformational out there so we're going to have a lot of the interesting choices with respect to what to do with the unallocated cash that this business has the potential to generate.
We've said our target payout ratio ranges in the 30% to 35%.
We've been challenged by some.
We think that's not competitive enough.
I think Bill was the first one to put that to me a year ago and we will have other options available to us with respect to providing returns to shareholders.
Of course choices like that are the board's choices.
Management can make a recommendation the board will make a call.
And I think all of those avenues are open to us.
And what's exciting about our company is the incredible crash-generative nature of the business and the opportunity we have to make even further progress on that front through attacking not just the trapped capacity for growth as it's measured in the P&amp;L but also the trapped capacity for growth that is measured through our working capital ratios.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on that allocation of capital questions just for a minute.
Because I know you have one of the lower dividend yields in the group but you also have one of the lower multiples.
So it surprises me frankly that even just year-to-date we haven't seen more buybacks.
You're kind of in that consistent $20 million to $25 million a quarter.
And I guess the question is does that belie some trepidation on your part in the consistency of the results? Do you think there's going to be a better buying opportunity out there? Or is this just a hey we kind of want to be consistent for now in terms of our allocation of the excess cash and just make share repurchases more of a regular thing because I'm surprised you haven't been more aggressive on that front? Yes Wendy this is Doug.
I think it's the latter.
And I think when you think about the overall -- our overall considerations for the use of cash we're obviously funding our renewal programs.
We are investing in CapEx then to continue to build out our growth opportunities and our core businesses.
We have increased the dividend a couple of times over the last year to something that's consistent with the payout range we'd like to be in.
And then we're going to execute our $300 million share repurchase plan on a relatively consistent basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that leads me to looking into next year.
And I as I go back to the Analyst Day and the 3 phases of your growth I think next year is supposed to be in that strategic bucket and the concept was earnings growth kind of in the 5% to 8% range.
But I hear you talk about these actions unlocking the upside if you will in your growth plan.
And I'm wondering as we start to thinking about 2013 are you comfortable with all of us kind of going to the high end of the range? I know some of these cost savings take a couple of years to roll through.
But are you feeling good enough about the business that we can migrate to the high end of that range in terms of thinking about earnings growth next year? Wendy it's Mike.
I think you captured it right that we're just emerging into the strategic stage.
The choices we're making today are designed as I said to unlock the upside.
And what I mean by that is we have an opportunity if we move through this effectively to pull the acceleration stage in closer to our current timetable.
And I don't think '13 will materially change in terms of what we have to do as a company.
'13 is always going to be the big transition year.
That's why we're making these changes now to get the talent in here to really fill the funnel.
So I don't think it materially impacts the long-term guidance we provided when we first laid out the Growth Game Plan in '13.
The question becomes can we accelerate '15 into the tailwind of '14 or the second half of '14? And that's something we will work through over the coming number of months as we get the new leadership in place and we start to really focus our resources and channel them against the biggest impact agenda items we've got.
So I think the promise of the upside probably comes a year beyond next and we'll have to work through whether we can get that pulled forward by a full year or whether it's something less than that.
But the language I use was very choice-full.
And you're right this restructuring enables us to accelerate the timeframe to get to the acceleration phase.
And I think there's bound to be opportunity here.
What's really nice about what we've chosen to do in the 5 work streams is we get a real quick payback on this.
It's not materially different than what we have done in the first phase of renewal.
And because of that the effect on uncommitted cash over the 5-year windows is neutral.
There's no difference in our uncommitted cash having executed this program.
So you fund it within that timeframe and you're still left with $1.5 billion of uncommitted cash and increased borrowing capacity that we'll have the ability to do interesting things with.
And again we don't want to get specific about that now but that will most likely involve a blend of both shareholder-friendly actions and more aggressive point of view on both on M&amp;A.
Your next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Pretty excited about some of the transformation Mike so congratulations on getting that.
Wendy asked the question that I was going to ask about whether the guidance for next year the 3% to 4% sales core sales growth and the 5% to 8% EPS growth and where might be in that.
So let me move onto my second question which was you did not name or at least in the release the heads of the operating units.
So do we have any surprises in that? When will those be formally announced publicly? They're being announced in the company today so I'll share them with you now.
I didn't want to put them into the press release until our people had the opportunity to hear it from us directly.
There are 6 segment leads 6 business segments that we're moving to.
There are 6 business segment presidents that will be appointed -- have been appointed.
We are combining Industrial Products &amp; Services with Construction Tools &amp; Accessories.
And Rich Wuerthele who currently runs IP&amp;S will lead the Combined Tools business.
In Baby Kristie Juster stays put.
She's doing a great job in our Baby business and we're really beginning to hit our stride there and of course we're not going to change anything in that place given the momentum we see building.
In Home Solutions which is the combination of Home Org &amp; Style GBU and Culinary Jeff Hohler will lead the new Home Solutions business segment.
In the combination of Tools and -- the Construction Tools &amp; Accessories and Industrial Products &amp; Services business we will take the Hardware business and move it into our new segment called the Specialty segment which will merge with our technology global business unit.
David Klatt who currently has responsibility for the Tech GBU will assume responsibility for the new Specialty business segment.
And Eduardo Senf who currently runs our WACE business Writing &amp; Creative Expression will assume responsibility for the Writing business segment.
So those -- and then in the RCP and Commercial Products we will -- we've appointed Neil Eibeler to continue to lead that business.
So as you can see we've got good continuity of leadership in those key roles.
In the context of those changes Ross Porter who currently runs Construction Tools &amp; Accessories will be leaving the company.
And as with Penny Ted Paul I do want to thank Ross for his service and leadership over a number of years.
He's had quite an impact.
And when you make changes like this good people end up leaving and I'm optimistic and happy to help any one of these folks really land in key roles because they're all really talented people and they've made significant contributions to getting us to this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations to the folks that will lead those units and I echo your sentiments about Ross.
We in the investment community have had a long and valued relationship with Ross.
So I hope he does well going forward.
The last question I have is also organizational because it looks like Europe is going to change markedly with your General Counsel running that.
And I take it that the matrix level of that organization is going to be collapsed? Can you talk a little bit about how that's going to work? I think that's a good idea but I'd like to understand and see that working.
Sure.
So for those who didn't see the leadership announcement John Stipancich who is our Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel will take over P&amp;L responsibility for EMEA and lead the EMEA transformation through a group of European leaders that are on the ground.
Gordon Scott who is our sales lead in EMEA on the Consumer businesses will become the General Manager of that geography.
And it is the one area of the world that we will manage as a geography as we work through the transformation work stream because the critical enabler to unlocking the cost in Europe is to remove the complexity whether that's SKU complexity or whether that's route-to-market complexity or whether that's the nature of our go-to-market strategies in small countries across EMEA.
And in order to do that effectively and fast you need to have somebody that's got accountability for making those choices.
And if we were to leave the verticals in place in that geography while we were making the change we didn't believe we would efficiently be able to make those complexity choices without a lot of cajoling and influencing.
And so we're impatient in some ways with respect to unlocking the cost because we have places we want to spend the money for growth.
And so we've asked John to step in to lead that work.
John's background John was -- before coming to Newell involved in private equity working at KKR &amp; Co.
And so he's got a lot of experience in leading transformation work of this sort.
And so we've asked John to take the lead in driving that portion of our renewal expansion initiative into action.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> First question is on the expansion of renewal.
It seems like over the last decade or so I guess one could argue that Newell has been in a state of restructuring or a non-stop state of restructuring and has been fairly restructured over that time.
So how comfortable are you -- or how confident are you that you can effectively triple the size of the original renewal program? And then secondly I assume the spending won't occur until the cost savings actually do materialized? So Joe great question.
We've got a very good line of sight to each of the 5 work streams.
These have been built bottoms up.
We have more work to do before we make some final choices particularly in the supply chain.
But we've got a pretty good line of sight to the opportunities and the linkage of cost and benefit.
The thing that needed to happen in order to enable us to go after this is the structural choice we've made this money.
We had to reorganize and reset the organization structure to enable many of these costs to be accessible.
And so things happen in a sequence for a reason.
We've aligned the company's structure to the strategy.
We've got SAP in place in the 80% of our revenue -- and in geographies representing 80% of our revenue today.
Slightly more than that quite frankly.
So we've got visibility into complexity cost in the way that we've never had before.
And so we have the opportunity now to pursue these -- the release of the cost.
And so that's the logic for how and why we've done what we're doing and in what sequence.
Your question about whether we can get $300 million -- cumulatively $300 million of benefit out of the cost structure of this company and the answer clearly is yes.
It's just going to take us time to do that and of course we have to balance the way we do that release of cost against the need to consistently deliver our commitments.
And so of course it's going to be the tension that's existed so far that will exist over the next 2.5 years which is finding the balance between delivery and change which as I said my team has proven to me that they can drive delivery and simultaneously drive change.
And that gives me the confidence to really go more aggressively to go bolder and faster to reach for the transformation of the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just secondly on the cost savings you guys are looking for from indirect procurement I think the last time you had spoke you mentioned that you're looking about $50 million of savings by the end of next year.
Could you update us on that and where that stands at this point? Sure Joe.
This is Doug.
We're on track continue to be on track for the $50 million.
And this year we are on track to deliver about $20 million of that.
So we're well on our way.
The teams are all engaged and are fully engaged in supporting the initiative and driving the savings that we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Just one last one if I could.
The merchandising activity at J.C.
Penny obviously has been a drag on you guys in Dcor in particular.
And it sounds like you're hopeful that by next spring that will change or it will improve.
How quickly would you expect to see some improvement from J.C.
Penney? Look I think we're going to have a rough ride with JCP until they do their transition in late Q1 into Q2.
It's really focused in our Dcor and our Culinary business.
And to the degree that they can get to the promised land that could be very exciting for us.
So we want to work with them to enable that.
In the meantime we're looking to build our businesses out such that we don't have to deal with such a headwind.
Just for reference through the end of Q3 year-to-date our core sales globally x Dcor would be up 3.5%.
So that's the degree to which this problem has hurt us.
So that's pretty solid performance in a really really tough environment from a macro perspective.
And I gave you some insight into Baby and Professional in North America combined growing over 6%.
So we've got many parts of our business performing very well right now and gives us encouragement that when we release cost and put some money behind these businesses we should be able to see some benefit from that from a growth perspective.
So the answer to your question is we're going to have to live with the Dcor and the Culinary drags as a result of JCP right through that transition in the first half of 2013.
But look I'll take a longer view than this and these choices are things we can control.
I want to focus our new energy around building a really compelling innovation and brand growth agenda through the addition of talent we're bringing into the company and through the structural change we're making that will enable us to create focus both on development and delivery.
And if those 2 capabilities will work in an interdependent way and they're of equal stature and they together will create a more vibrant future for us.
And so our energy is going to that right now.
We will work through the J.C.
Penney issues in those 2 businesses.
And like I said if they can get to the promised land that's a very exciting future for us but it will be bumpy until then.
Your.
Next question comes from the line of Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just remind us I've kind of lost track here of how much increase in strategic spending you are supposed to have in 2012? And if you think by the end of fourth quarter we'll be -- you'll be ahead of that or kind of just in line with that or below? And also you mentioned some shift of spending.
Can you just elaborate on that? I think you said from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
And then my second question has to do with -- you had said that there was some weakness in Fine Writing kind of in the more mid-price point range.
And can you just update us on that? Is that trend improving or is that kind of the same and remind us what geographies was that just Europe or Europe and Asia? And then third question is have you given right now any thought as you've continued to look at the businesses and been longer at the company to divestitures? Are you happy with the potential future for each of the things? Or what's your current thought there? Thank you.
Thanks Linda.
Let me start with a couple of them and I'll work back towards the SG&amp;A question.
So on Fine Writing Europe.
As you recall we shared with you on the last call the concerns we had on our Fine Writing business in Europe as a result of the macro pressure that business was feeling.
This is the component of our Fine Writing portfolio that sits probably below $100 a pen.
It's not a very high end of our business which is growing beautifully.
It's the area of our portfolio that's sort of caught in between Everyday Writing Instruments and the super premium end of that portfolio.
And that was the segment of the portfolio in Europe that was under duress.
It's also the segment of the portfolio in Europe that's distributed more through small stationery stores.
And these guys are under pressure in this environment and therefore pulled back on the inventories or in some cases having a tough time financing those inventories.
And so that business came under pressure in the first half of the year and that dynamic continues with us.
We've layered more support more promotional support into the business in the second half of the year.
And we'll continue to watch that and layer merchandising funding in to stabilize that business as we move into the fourth quarter.
I don't want to play that lever too hard because everything we spent there is money that could be invested elsewhere in more strategic -- bigger strategic priorities.
So we have to be careful about that.
But our goal would be to stabilize that business until the macros turn in Europe by layering in the right merchandising support.
On your question in general with respect to SG&amp;A we're right where we thought we'd be.
Of course if we had not have the Dcor problem we'd be really layering the money in right now.
But the Dcor problem has and we haven't given you a specific operating income impact but needless to say it's been quite significant.
And we needed to cover that through the year.
Had we not had that problem we would have been able to layer in even more investment.
We have spent as we've said $30 million so far on selling systems.
That's people that's feet on the street across Latin America in some select businesses in North America.
So we've weaned into selling investments first.
And on a constant ForEx basis our brand investment is effectively flat.
So we have yet to layer big money in in that space.
But as we come into the fourth quarter and the line of sight to EPS is clearer we will start to layer in brand support money on top of the base we've got today which is quite substantial.
I mean if you look where we would spend the money it would be our Writing business our Professional business.
If you're watching TV around the Olympics you would have seen Paper Mate advertising.
If you were watching the Video Music Awards in September you would have seen Sharpie right in the middle of all that.
If you'd go online and you search Sharpie party on Google you'll see Sharpie everywhere.
So I'm not felling like we're short of investment today.
But we have some bigger ideas that are coming through the funnel that will require support going forward.
And as the new talent gets set we will have the appetite to spend even more as they make the impact they should make on the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I was hoping to get a better sense of when we should expect to start seeing the top line payback from the higher spending.
You talked about the line of sight on generating the savings but can you expand on the line of sight to when the spending should actually start to materially boost your top line growth? Well as we said in the strategic guidance we provided in February we would expect that acceleration to start to occur through the strategic phase into the acceleration phase.
And so what needs to happen first is the release of cost so that we have the investment firepower to put that money behind our brands.
As I just mentioned to Linda the Dcor problem this year aid into our capacity to invest behind brand.
And have we had not that you'd be seeing that investment happening already.
But as we've said we're not going to just spend without living up to our commitment to both accelerate growth and improve our operating income margin year in and year out.
And so we begin to have greater clarity greater line of sight to opportunities and as the cost get released we have the opportunity to layer those into brand-building investment and you should expect us to start to do that as we enter fourth quarter and into 2013.
And you should expect to see our growth rates sequentially improve in '13 versus '12 as they have in '12 versus '11.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you discuss if you're seeing or expect to see any demand benefit from a potential U.S.
housing rebound? It sounded like market share were strong in the U.S.
in the quarter but I was hoping for a bit of an update on category growth and maybe just a general update on macros around the world also.
Yes.
I was asked that question this morning by a reporter on the macros.
We haven't seen a material change in consumption patterns in North America.
The biggest change we've experienced has been in Europe and that continues to be a tough environment.
Same time we haven't seen sort of the housing-driven balance either.
So we haven't seen the upside the tailwind sort of move behind these businesses.
We're winning because we're building market share.
And the growth rates that I described for our Professional portfolio is a function of that in North America.
So I look forward to the moment where the winds sort of pivot but we haven't seen that yet.
Our planning assumption for next year is that we've got more of the same.
We haven't assumed a material change either way.
I think from a consumer perspective that's probably the right assumption to make irrespective of whether we go off the cliff or not.
There may be a 90-day wobble in Q1 if in fact we do with all the media headlines.
But strategically I don't think that is as much of a risk as perhaps retailer response to that dynamic playing out.
That's where we get the volatility more so than in the consumer dynamics.
We will have an interesting challenge in the first half of next year because as you know summer occurred earlier at least in the eastern half of the country last year which certainly helped our Professional portfolio.
But I don't think there's -- we're not experiencing any material impact of the macro shifts on our business.
Look at our emerging growth rate at 12% roughly year-to-date.
We've all seen the GDP headlines out of China and out of Brazil.
But given where we start from slightly less than $1 billion business which an absolute sizable but relative to the market a huge opportunity.
The GDP dynamics in emerging markets aren't really a factor.
It's more of what we do and how much we invest to deploy the portions of our portfolio we intend to develop in those geographies than any other macro impacts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so core sales be at the low end of your range for the full year that's more home Dcor than macros causing some downside at this point? It's the macros in EMEA than it's Dcor.
And I think that those are the things that caused us to be at the low end of the range.
And we have a tough -- and we're starting to lap growth.
So we've got to grow on growth.
But we're 3.5% year-to-date without Dcor in the mix.
And I don't like to do the withs and withouts so the reality is we're at Q2.
And I think we'll be hard pressed to get above the midpoint in our full year guidance range without some big change in the environment.
So I think we've said the -- we have a clear line of sight to the top of our EPS range.
But given the environment we're sort of in the bottom of our -- bottom half of our core sales range.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Is there sort of any way you're gauging the effectiveness of some of these investments in emerging markets? I mean there aren't systems in yet to sort of get an early read on sort of what the payback has been so far.
And then if you could just give us the sales to date for renewal? The sales to date or the savings to date? Research Division</strong> Sorry yes savings to date.
Yes.
I'll let Doug answer the savings-to-date question.
This is how we're measuring the investments in -- the renewal investments in Latin America.
I'm looking at growth rates.
And I look at growth rates the return on the sales investments in terms of the growth yield we're getting in those geographies.
So I'm not looking at it from a financial metric perspective.
I'm looking for a specific investment yield in those specific geographies.
I've got to look at that in aggregate across the total company.
And we're seeing good growth in Latin America by country.
So even with the GDP slowdown in Brazil we've got good numbers coming out of that part of the world and strong double-digit growth in those geographies.
And that is a function of getting broader coverage.
And so when we complement that with good brand investment and we get to building our brands in the sustainable way we're going to have a nice financial return on those investments.
But it will take a longer -- it's a longer period of time Bill.
It's not something that I actually want to even measure in sort of on annualized basis the financial return.
The growth yield absolutely.
Are we doing it strategically? Absolutely.
Are we building our market share from a brand perspective? Yes we've got to measure that.
Do consumers -- what does brand health look like behind those brands? Do we need to measure that? Absolutely.
That's the kind of dashboard that we look at.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And Doug do you have that savings-to-date number? Yes.
I do Bill.
The year-to-date number is about $0.10.
And the program to date because we had a little bit occurred on the fourth quarter last year is about $0.11.
Research Division</strong> And then Mike we all know you're a very persuasive guy.
Can you just give some more color on how you got all these folks to come over? And then maybe if there's any changes to the incentive compensation metrics as you kind of change the strategic direction of the company.
Look I mean these guys saw the opportunity inherent in the business.
All I had to do is show them a couple of charts.
Research Division</strong> Can I see those charts? Yes yes.
It's on the Analyst Day.
It was that cash chart and that was to see the essential on that one the one that talks about our unallocated cash and the increased borrowing capacity.
And then the fact that the brand portfolio is so concentrated.
You've got 14 brands that represent 85% of our revenue stream.
And these are not brands that are in their twilight.
These are strong brands with great light in equity.
And so with the right investment of energy and insight we can really create something powerful with that brand portfolio.
And then you want to work with people you like.
So I don't know maybe that's a factor.
Research Division</strong> The incentive compensation isn't it going to be changed in the way sort of people are paid? No.
We are -- we continue to -- I want to put more emphasis over time on the long-term components of our comp.
But the metrics we're looking at are going to stay the same.
We'll focus on core sales growth we'll focus on EPS delivery and we'll focus on cash.
And then from a long-term perspective we're looking -- we get comped all of us on relative TSR.
So I think those are the right metrics in the business.
And if we -- if I had a wish it's that we push more the total direct compensation towards the long-term incentive component of things because I believe that that's the best way for our employees to share in the value creation story related to the Growth Game Plan.
And I think that while it's a little bit more of a long-term payout then perhaps they're historically used to I think it's the right perspective to have and it's the best way that they can create wealth for their family.
So I'm encouraging the board to think that way and I definitely talk our employees about our business that way.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then just one quick follow-up.
Typically a good back-to-school correlates to a very good Christmas.
Is there any reason to believe that it's not going to be the case this year? Look we're hopeful.
We're launching Sharpie Metallics and we're putting money behind it.
It's part of what we'll get brand investments.
And we've got a really cool thing going on on Sharpie also with respect to our music partnerships.
And we get the full core benefit of InkJoy in the marketplace in North America.
So we have good things going on in the business.
I wish -- I said to the board the other day the impact of this Dcor thing is really pretty profound.
And have we not had not that issue we'd be in a very different place.
But we got to live with that and we're going to live with that right into 2013.
And if we take this new structure and we work it really hard we should start to see some benefits as we get out there into '14 and beyond.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions about the structure the new GBU structure.
The first would be -- I mean you talked about 14 brands and is 6 GBUs seems like a lot for sort of 14 core brands? And then secondly was there any thought given the aligning the structure from a geographic standpoint instead of a GBU standpoint given the need to focus on the emerging markets businesses? Well John I like having our structure our P&amp;L ownership vertical by category basically.
It makes the interface between those first 2 pillars much easier to manage.
So you've got a development owner and a category owner that are both global in nature.
One of the complexities in my former company is that you have to marry a category owner up to 20 multi-country geography owners.
And that gets very complicated and expensive.
So we're not the type of company that can afford to have all those interfaces.
So I think this is the right structure for us.
We've made a different choice in EMEA for a different reason which is related to the complexity issue that I raised.
But you know what? I don't know what we'll look like 5 years from now.
There's any number of possibilities.
And for the next period of time though this is the right structure for us.
It's the most efficient way for us to make the biggest impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of minor things.
One I guess as we think about 2013 and kind of the step-up in core sales from maybe where you'll end this year and known that Dcor is going to weigh down.
I guess can you just talk about the relevance of the innovation pipeline you see for '13 relevant to what's out there for '12? So that's the first question.
And then the second question just maybe a little bit more color on the SKU rationalization maybe where you see some of the bigger opportunities obviously not going into specific brands.
But if you could talk maybe Consumer versus Professional versus Baby a little bit more color on that angle.
Yes.
In terms of innovation funnel I actually we've got a pretty good funnel coming forward both of items that are rolling out of '12 into '13 and new things that we're doing.
Some of which I can talk about.
Some of which you'll have to wait to talk about until our next call.
And it's pretty balanced with good activity in Writing a very good plan in Baby.
We have an excellent selling of our new items for '13 on Baby in the U.S.
in Europe which is new news which will help.
And also we've got some of the exciting things happening in the Professional business that I can't talk about right now.
Plus we've got some geographic deployment opportunities that we will pursue in '13 which again I don't want to get specific on yet but also offer some really interesting opportunity largely in the Professional category.
So as I think about the growth levers we've got for next year those are in round terms the brand innovation or portfolio deployment components of it.
We have as much opportunity in strengthening our delivery as we do in strengthening our development pipeline.
And there's as much creativity and joy to be had in building the right assortment by channel and creating strategic partnerships and stripping complexity out of the enterprise-wide value chain from our retailers' cash register back through our supplier interfaces.
And that work which will be the work of the delivery organization can each both release cost but also drive growth.
And I'm as excited about those opportunities in the channel development opportunities we had as I am about the innovation opportunities we've got.
With respect to the specificity you're looking for on complexity reduction in Europe there's really 3 levels to this.
There's the SKU complexity that you've talked about.
And I think there's opportunities in probably our biggest businesses there which are Writing business and our Tools businesses.
But we have to be very careful about that.
There's equally opportunity to play for different route-to-market models depending on geographies.
So we have the complexity and the cost associated with a very broad EMEA geographic footprint but not very big businesses in some geographies.
And of course you want to sustain those businesses but there's a more efficient way to deliver those revenues through management of our route-to-market systems in a more synergistic way and that's a different type of complexity.
So without getting too specific but you get the sense for those types of opportunities we'll pursue.
John's all over this with the support of the European team and also with some help from the outside.
Your next question comes from the line of Sarah Miller with SunTrust.
I'm on the call today for Bill.
But I guess one last question that we had was could you provide any more color around the Baby business? I know you mentioned that a lot of your growth in the U.S.
was coming more from market share gains.
But just if we can get some more color around the overall category whether you see a lift coming any time soon both in the U.S.
and other geographies? Sarah the headlines on Baby are generally pretty positive.
We've strengthened our customer partnerships in the U.S.
We've got better innovation on Graco this year.
We have lapped the step-up in growth in Aprica in Japan which occurred in Q2 of 2011 and we're sustaining good double-digit growth in Japan on Aprica.
We do see some competitive activity picking up in Japan now.
So there'll be some challenges there in terms of sustaining that rate of growth but pretty good performance.
The business in Europe has had challenges.
And so as we look forward to '13 we're bringing in new innovation platform to market there which should strengthen the Graco performance in Europe.
And we're hopeful that our business stabilizes there.
We feel good about the innovation sell-in for 2013 in the U.S.
And we're hopeful that we can sustain the growth we're currently experiencing on top of year-ago growth in North America which we have yet to lap until the fourth quarter of 2012.
So Q4 will be the real test for the underlying forward-looking momentum in the Baby business in the U.S.
Q4 and Q1.
And we're well staged to be able to sustain certainly more than competitive levels of growth.
Your final question comes from the line of Lee First [ph] with Wellington Shield.
I'm interested in hearing more about your go to market.
I think you've already implemented One Newell sales force.
And I was wondering if you could give us examples of success there already and then what kind of changes do you see going forward.
We've -- Lee as you know we -- in April of this year we really rolled out the customer -- the new customer development organization in the U.S.
that on the Consumer side of the business took our sales structures from a disaggregated model where they were in bed -- our sales force was in bed within each GBU and pulled them to the center to -- and organized our field selling teams around customers and channels.
And we began to see some impact from that particularly in the Consumer business in -- which is where the change was made in late Q3.
And I would expect that momentum to continue to build going into Q4 and into the first half of the year.
We're seeing great progress with respect to penetrating new customers which was part of the design ambition.
And we're seeing early progress with respect to broadening our distribution footprint.
But I wouldn't be objective if I didn't tell you that I think there's a lot more opportunity for us to go after.
One of the powerful things about our new organization structure and having it focused around development and delivery is that more energy and more emphasis will go into the development of the right assortment for the right channels the right pricing strategies the right merchandising frequencies the right merchandising vehicles and the right channel penetration strategies for each one of these businesses.
If you're a general manager or a segment president in this new model that's where a good chunk of your energy is going to go in the future.
And so having now put the CDO in place we have the opportunity to leverage it through this new structure more completely.
And it was done in that sequence for a reason.
You needed to get the CDO done first in Consumer before you'd be able to leverage this model that we've rolled to.
Now importantly with Joe's arrival we will broaden the umbrella across our total portfolio to manage the customer development landscape in that way.
It's not a change for the Professional business but it brings both organizations together so that Bill Burke has one go-to guy on customer development.
And I think that's very very helpful.
There's opportunity in the future to take that model beyond the U.S.
But for the time being our energy is going to be focused there.
And so Joe comes in having lived in this context at Unilever and at Kraft previously and knows how to work the system and knows how to get the most out of a model like this.
He knows the critical nature of the partnership between customer development and the general management infrastructure and he knows the critical nature of the partnership between that general management structure and the development pillar.
And so he's operated in this world for 10 years 15 years and will be able to help us avoid all the potholes that you have the potential to step in when you don't have that experience.
Are there any examples of success so far that you can share with us? We've talked about the Office Depot partnership on Rubbermaid Consumer talked about broadening our portfolio of footprint through our Toys "R" Us relationship to include more than Baby on the toy side of that partnership.
We're seeing expansion on our food and beverage Rubbermaid portfolio into the food drug and mass channel.
And so there's a long list.
And I'll be happy when we have less strategic things to talk about to lay that out.
It's a good challenge Lee.
I mean if we're not clearly communicating all the wins we're getting I'll make sure to take some time on our January call to dimensionalize that for you.
And on the emerging markets it sounds like you're focusing on Latin America.
Could you just quickly clarify what your strategy is there in the long term and short term? As we said we are going to invest behind the Win Bigger businesses and our Win Bigger geographies.
The Win Bigger businesses are Tools Professional Writing and Commercial Products.
And all of those businesses have footprints in Latin America.
So we are going to leverage those geographies for expanded brand presence and growth.
And at the same time take the same portfolio to Asia.
And so geographically our focus point in Latin America is 3 hubs Mexico Columbia and Andina [ph] in Brazil.
And those 3 countries will serve as platforms for growth across the total Latin American landscape.
In Asia the prize is in China.
We got a foothold there in Fine Writing and the Industrial Products &amp; Services.
We've moved talent to our new office in Shanghai to help develop our Rubbermaid Commercial Products business and we will continue to do so to unlock the opportunity in China and also across Southeast Asia.
This concludes our question-and-answer period.
If we were unable to get to your question please call the Investor Relations team at (770) 418-7075.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for any concluding remarks.
Well thanks for the questions and thanks for sticking with us through a very complex and complete set of announcements this morning.
We've covered a lot of ground.
Once again let me summarize.
We've delivered a solid set of results and are well on our way to delivering our full year guidance across all 4 of our full year guidance metrics.
We've announced a significant 50% increase in our quarterly dividend that brings us to the high end of our targeted dividend payout ratio range.
With the on-time and in-full completion of the first phase of Project Renewal right around the corner in the first half of 2013 we've announced the expansion of Project Renewal.
And that expansion has 5 new work streams that will by the middle of 2015 generate $180 million to $225 million of incremental savings over that 2.5-year period.
We've announced a new organization structure that's simpler and flatter that reorganizes the company around the first 2 pillars of the Growth Game Plan and our structure is now aligned to our strategy.
And we've appointed a new Newell executive team with a tremendous blend of top talent from both within Newell Rubbermaid and from the outside.
And so it's a very exciting moment for our company.
This is the pivot where we start to drive the Growth Game Plan into action.
We launched the Growth Game Plan in February.
We initiated the first round of renewal changes in November to bridge to this moment.
And now we take a bigger swing at both cost and releasing the trapped capacity for growth but perhaps more importantly building out an organization model and a new team that has the potential to drive the company towards the acceleration stage of the Growth Game Plan with the ambition of building a bigger faster-growing more global more profitable Newell Rubbermaid.
So with that thanks for your questions and your support and we'll talk to you soon.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (800) 585-8367 or (855) 859-2056 with an access code of 39786031 starting 2 hours following the end of today's call.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Thank Morley.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
As usual with me today is Newell Rubbermaid President and CEO Mike Polk; and EVP and CFO Doug Martin.
Let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions.
Actual results or trends could differ materially.
Risk factors that may impact these statements are discussed in the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K and in the company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.
Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures including but not limited to normalized operating margin and normalized earnings per share should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Newell Rubbermaid's GAAP results.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP results is included in our financial summary slide deck on our website and in today's earnings release.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Mike.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
We have 2 objectives today.
First we'll review our fourth quarter and full year results and provide some perspective on that performance.
Second I'll give you some insights into our thinking about 2013 and provide guidance for the year.
Let's get into the results.
Our Q4 results represent our sixth consecutive quarter of consistent delivery.
Up against our strongest year-ago quarter Q4 core sales grew 2.2% in line with our expectations.
We delivered normalized EPS of $0.43 about 7% ahead of prior year and $0.01 ahead of consensus.
Q4 normalized operating margin was 11.7% down 10 basis points versus prior year.
Increased advertising and promotion continued investment in sales force feet on the street and incremental customer programming associated with Q4 merchandising and 2013 new item sell-in was largely offset by productivity and structural SG&amp;A reductions linked to Project Renewal.
These investments were also enabled by good visibility into below-the-line benefits that gave us the flexibility to accept gross margin compression in the quarter.
Importantly we generated operating cash flow of slightly over $261 million capping off a very strong cash flow year.
Our full year results reinforce our commitment to steady sequential improvement of our performance.
For the full year we grew core sales by 2.2% a 40 basis point sequential improvement in core growth rate versus last year and a solid outcome in the face of tough economic conditions in Europe and challenges on our decor business.
Normalized operating margin expanded 10 basis points as productivity positive pricing and structural SG&amp;A reductions more than covered a 30 basis point increase in strategic SG&amp;A related to sales force investment and increased advertising and promotion spending.
Normalized EPS was $1.70 6.9% ahead a year ago despite having to overcome an $0.08 headwind as we replenished management incentive compensation levels this year.
Operating cash flow came in about the high end of our guidance range at nearly $619 million 10.2% ahead of prior year.
We nearly doubled our dividend from $0.32 per year to the current annualized rate of $0.60 which drove our payout ratio to the high end of our targeted range of 30% to 35%.
We also bought back nearly 5 million shares in 2012 at an average price of $18.62.
And we strengthened our balance sheet by refining -- refinancing the QUIPS and the April 2013 notes and extending our $800 million revolver exiting the year with an adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.2 down from 2.6 in 2011 and 2.7 in 2010.
As a result we significantly improved our return on invested capital to 13.3% up 80 basis points versus last year and up 140 basis points versus 2010.
I'm proud of the organization for driving this delivery while simultaneously driving change.
During 2012 we executed the first phase of Project Renewal taking steps to simplify our organization structure and helping to bridge 2011 to 2012.
We launched the Growth Game Plan our new strategy to make Newell Rubbermaid a larger faster-growing more global more profitable company.
We launched a new European SAP platform that gives us better clarity into costs.
We deployed a new selling structure across our U.S.
business with the creation of the Customer Development Organization.
We partnered with IBM to launch a new indirect procurement initiative that delivered over $20 million of savings on the way to $50 million by the end of 2013.
We announced Phase 2 of Project Renewal a major next step to drive the Growth Game Plan into action with 5 new cost work streams including organization simplification EMEA transformation best cost finance best cost back office and new global supply chain.
We announced a big swing to align our structure to our strategy reorganizing the company around the Growth Game Plan further simplifying our structure to 6 business segments and creating 2 focused organization pillars development and delivery.
And lastly we strengthened our executive leadership with key new appointments from both within and outside of the company.
My new team is now in place and they've hit the ground running.
So we've delivered a year of sequential improvement despite a number of headwinds and we've implemented a tremendous change agenda.
Within these results we've had some notable achievements.
Our U.S.
business which represents over 65% of our total revenue delivered solid growth despite serious headwinds on Dcor.
Core growth across all of our U.
S.
businesses was up 2.3%.
Excluding the Dcor  business core growth in the U.S.
was up 4% driven by greater than 5% growth on Baby Commercial Products and Tools.
Our emerging market core sales growth was nearly 12% with core growth in Latin America of about 15%.
Increased investment in sales force feet on the street helped fuel our Tools Writing and Commercial Products businesses resulting in nearly 20% growth in Mexico 18% in Andean 14% in Brazil and 12% in Southern Cone.
The balance of our emerging markets grew over 9%.
Our Tools segment had another great year delivering 7% core sales growth.
2012 represented Tools' fourth consecutive year of core sales growth greater than 5% and almost half of the Tools growth was generated outside the United States.
Our Writing segment also had significantly strong performance with Paper Mate InkJoy continuing its momentum fueling both category and share growth in markets across the globe.
Our Writing business delivered core sales growth of over 3% with again markets outside the U.S.
delivering almost half of the Writing growth.
Our Baby segment turned a corner with strong core sales growth and excellent margin improvement.
The Baby business grew nearly 10% in 2012 with double-digit core growth in Asia and North America.
Stronger new product innovation and a more strategic approach to customer partnering drove this growth and margin expansion.
Operating income in this segment increased over 40%.
While the year was not without challenges most notably our Dcor  business in North America and our Fine Writing business in Western Europe I trust you all agree our teams have managed through these challenges well and delivered a year we can be proud of.
I'd like to now turn to 2013 and our outlook for the year.
Project Renewal and our other cost initiatives when coupled with increasing impact of our new organization and functional capabilities give us confidence that we can once again sequentially improve performance in 2013.
As you recall from numerous presentations we explained that in the delivery phase of the Growth Game Plan we would deliver 2% to 3% core sales growth and 3% to 6% EPS growth and then our results would accelerate in the strategic phase to 3% to 4% core sales growth and 5% to 8% EPS growth.
2013 will be a transition year as we move from the delivery phase of the Growth Game Plan to the strategic phase.
In the first half of 2013 we'll implement a series of changes as we drive the Growth Game Plan into action.
These changes are related to the second phase of Project Renewal which we announced on our Quarter 3 earnings call and reflect our commitment to build a best cost-finance organization and to simplify our structure organizing around the first 2 pillars of the Growth Game Plan making our brands really matter and building an execution powerhouse or we have said development and delivery.
These thrusts when coupled with 2013 new savings from the first phase of Project Renewal will generate $75 million that progressively becomes available for investment from the second quarter onward.
Most of this money will be reserved for second half investment as ideas like the U.S.
launch of Hilmor our newly announced HVAC tool brand and yet-to-be-announced launches on Sharpie in North America and Irwin in Brazil flow to market.
A portion of these savings will be reserved for continued investment in new capabilities in customer development consumer insight and design and R&amp;D and of course some of those savings will flow to earnings.
Phasing of our results will reflect this transition from the delivery phase of the Growth Game Plan to the strategic phase with slower core sales growth and earnings growth over the first half of 2013 and accelerating results through the second half.
Overall our full year guidance reflects sequential improvement in performance versus 2012.
We'll deliver core sales growth of 2% to 4% normalized operating income margin expansion of up to 20 basis points normalized EPS growth of 5% to 8% or $1.78 to $1.84 and operating cash flow of $575 million to $625 million.
Our 2013 guidance assumes no material change in global economic conditions with modest growth in North America continued weakness in Western Europe and continued strong growth in the emerging markets.
Our Win Bigger segments Tools Commercial Products and Writing should deliver good growth in 2013 behind stronger innovations geographic expansion and continued strengthening of customer partnerships in North America.
Our Baby business is on a roll and we expect that to continue in 2013 with very strong new product acceptances in North America and new merchandising concepts on the way to market with our retail partners.
Home solutions will continue to be burdened by the Dcor business in the first half of the year but stronger innovation and 4 new scale merchandising events should result in better full year performance than in 2012.
Our geographic priorities will remain the same in 2013: share growth in North America double-digit growth in emerging markets with primary focus in Latin America and growth in line with our markets in EMEA.
There are 2 factors that could influence the outcome.
The first factor is the speed with which we unlock Project Renewal savings for reinvestment into brand support.
Gross margin will sequentially improve in Q1 from Q4.
However with the absence of positive price in Q1 as a result of the lapping of the 2011 pricing in Q4 our ability to step up brand investment will be governed by productivity mix and the timing of Project Renewal savings.
We expect gross margins to improve progressively through the year as new price increases take hold in late Q1 and productivity delivery ramps up.
However the real accelerant for investment will be the flow-through of Phase 2 Renewal savings from Q2 onward.
Our growth opportunity and risk is associated with timing of those savings and the consequent investment.
The second factor is the macro environment.
We've assumed that there is no material change in the environment and that risk associated with the recent negative news on GDP growth in the U.S.
and the U.K.
and the potential consumer spending impact of tax increases in the U.S.
does not materially affect our business.
Of course this assumption could be wrong.
But based on our Q4 U.S.
growth in a flat GDP environment we feel like we've got the risk captured in our current guidance.
I want to take a quick moment to comment on phasing through the year.
We expect core sales growth in the first half of the year to be in the lower end of our guidance range and core growth in the second half to be in the upper half of our guidance range.
Our growth will flow this way for 3 reasons.
First Dcor performance will continue to be a drag on results until J.C.
Penney resets their home section.
The current plan is for that to occur in Q2 with a potentially negative effect in late Q1 during the transition of formats.
Second our new innovation activity ships in late Q1 and obviously our brand support monies flow to these ideas and Year 2 investment on the big launches from '12 like Paper Mate InkJoy Parker Ingenuity and Sharpie Metallics.
Third brand support investment flexibility increases from Q2 forward as the savings from both phases of Project Renewal become increasingly available from that point on.
As you update your models I'd like to remind you of 2 factors that will affect the phasing of sales normalized EPS and normalized operating margin in the first half of 2013.
First our Q1 core sales growth in Tools and Commercial Products benefited in 2012 from the early spring in the eastern half of the U.S.
We've assumed this dynamic does not repeat in 2013.
Second you recall in 2012 that we drove a pull-forward of roughly $28 million of revenue and about $0.035 of EPS from Q2 into Q1 in advance of our SAP go-live in Europe.
The EPS impact is related to both the gross profit associated with the revenue pull-forward and the overall spending slowdown implemented in Q1 to smooth demand in advance of the EMEA cutover.
This presents a Q1 2013 comp issue on core sales growth normalized operating income margin and normalized EPS which will obviously reverse in Q2.
With that let me turn it over to Doug to provide more to you -- detail on our financial results and on our outlook.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'll spend the next few minutes covering our fourth quarter results.
And after that I'll walk you through our outlook for 2013 and provide some color on the phasing of our Project Renewal cost savings and planned investments.
Starting with the Q4 results.
Newell reported net sales for the quarter of $1.52 billion a 1.6% improvement versus the prior year.
Core sales which excludes 60 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency increased 2.2% which is consistent with our view from October when we indicated that sales would come in near the lower end of our annual guidance range.
By portfolio role our Win Bigger businesses grew fourth quarter sales by 3.8% Incubate grew 5% and Win Where We Are showed a slight decline of negative 0.2% which is a sequential improvement over Win Where We Are results for the first 3 quarters of the year.
The Tools segment set the pace for us this quarter with strong core sales growth of 6% and reported sales growth of 3.6%.
Tools grew across all geographies with double-digit growth in Latin America and Asia.
Irwin in Latin America was very robust.
We are really beginning to see the payback on our selling investments in this region.
And Lenox also had a strong quarter in both North America and China where demand continues to be strong.
Operating margin in Tools declined 360 basis points to 11.4% as a result of our investments in our Latin America sales force combined with increased merchandising activity at Irwin.
Core sales in our Commercial Product segment grew 1.3% against a challenging comparison to last year's 11.2% growth.
Reported net sales grew 0.8%.
Commercial Products sales were strong in both North America and Asia but were offset by declines in Europe and rest of world.
In the U.S.
our Healthcare platform continues to generate double-digit core growth.
Operating margin for this segment was 11.7% a decline of 320 basis points largely due to additional SG&amp;A investments in selling and channel marketing in Latin America the U.S.
Healthcare sales force as well as increased customer programs.
We delivered solid Q4 core results of 2.4% in the Writing segment.
Reported sales grew 2%.
Latin America is hitting on all cylinders with strong double-digit growth driven by the strength of the InkJoy launch in the region.
North America had a solid quarter as well growing year-over-year against a tough comparison with the North American InkJoy launch in Q4 of last year.
InkJoy continues to perform well in the marketplace and now has a 10.9 share of the U.S.
retail ballpoint pen market.
We also benefited from a very successful promotional campaign at Sharpie this quarter.
Our current Waterman sales in Europe continue to be soft and we saw a sequential slowdown in Asia.
Q4 normalized operating margin in the Writing segment was 16.1% compared with last year's 16.4%.
The Baby segment had a strong finish to the year with Q4 core sales growth of 5.9% and reported sales growth of 4.2%.
In North America Graco grew nicely driven by strong POS and new product introductions.
Aprica continued to drive strong high single-digit growth in Japan on the success of our new products at retail.
EMEA showed a sequential improvement to achieve of a roughly flat fourth quarter year-over-year.
Baby Q4 operating margin was 6.9% compared with last year's 7.6% driven by increased spending associated with R&amp;D for new products and merchandising activity to support new products.
Our Home Solutions segment delivered modestly positive core sales growth of 0.5% which is good sequential improvement and the first positive core sales growth quarter for this segment.
Reported sales grew 0.8%.
Dcor continued to be a drag on performance but was offset in the quarter by positive trends from Calphalon Goody and the Rubbermaid brands.
Home Solutions Q4 normalized operating margin was 14.9% a 220 basis point improvement versus the prior year driven primarily by better productivity from Dcor and the benefit of Renewal savings in this Win Where We Are segment.
In our Specialty segment core sales declined by 1.3% and reported sales declined by 2.2%.
Solid performance from Dymo Office Labeling and strong results from Endicia were more than offset by declines in Hardware and Mimio.
Operating margin in this segment improved dramatically from 10.9% last year to this quarter's 14.8% largely attributable to the impact of renewal savings.
Now looking at Q4 sales by geography.
North American core sales grew 2.2% driven by strong growth in Commercial Products and Baby &amp; Parenting offset by ongoing weakness in Dcor.
In EMEA core sales declined 4.4% with Tools being the only segment that grew reflecting ongoing economic weakness in Western Europe.
In Latin America core sales grew a very strong 21.1% with growth across all Win Bigger businesses.
In the Asia Pacific region core sales grew 0.9%.
Aprica in Japan continues to perform well as does our Tool business in China offset by deceleration of Parker sales in China and weakness in Australia across all businesses.
Our company-wide gross margin on a normalized basis was 36.7% a 50 basis point year-over-year decline in the quarter as the company made incremental investments in customer programs and merchandising.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was flat in absolute dollars to last year declining 40 basis points to 25%.
Despite a $6 million headwind in the quarter from replenishing our incentive compensation programs we were able to hold SG&amp;A on a -- SG&amp;A constant and still increase strategic investment in our Win Bigger businesses including sales force expansion in focused growth areas like Tools and Commercial Products in Brazil and Healthcare in North America.
We also invested to support the Sharpie One Direction campaign and the Parker 125th anniversary.
We expect to further accelerate strategic spending behind our brands in 2013.
Reported Q4 operating margin of 10.1% compares with 8.4% in the prior year.
On a normalized basis Q4 operating margin was 11.7% a 10 basis point decline from the prior year.
Q4 interest expense was $17.4 million compared with $21.2 million in the previous year.
If you recall that in Q2 we called and retired our outstanding quarterly income preferred securities and refinanced them with lower-cost medium-term notes.
And we followed this up in Q4 when we paid down $500 million of early 2013 maturities having a coupon of 5.5% and refinanced them with $350 million of 2% 5-year notes and commercial paper.
These 2 transactions will result in annualized interest savings of about $16 million or $0.04 per share going forward.
Our long-term debt was reduced by $366 million in 2012 with total debt declining by $258 million.
Q4 reported earnings per share were $0.35 compared with $0.27 in the prior period.
Normalized earnings per share were $0.43 $0.01 ahead of consensus and 7.5% above a year ago.
Operating income was essentially flat year-over-year.
Operating cash flow in the quarter was $261.3 million.
And for the full year we generated $618.5 million in operating cash flow above the high end of our guidance range and an improvement of $57.2 million versus 2011.
DSO deteriorated by 6 days driven largely by the timing of sales in Q4 versus the prior year.
Inventory and DPO combined improved by 7 days from the prior year.
And outside of working capital lower cash taxes helped drive the increase in operating cash flow.
During Q4 we returned $67.8 million to shareholders in the form of $43.5 million of dividends and $24.3 million for the repurchase of 1.1 million shares.
During 2012 the company repurchased a total of 4.9 million shares for $91.5 million.
Now turning to the full year outlook for 2013.
As Mike mentioned earlier we expect full year core sales growth of 2% to 4%.
We're estimating that currency rates will have a negative impact of about 100 basis point on sales so reported net sales are expected to grow 1% to 3%.
We expect normalized operating margin expansion of up to 20 basis points and normalized earnings per share growth of between 5% and 8% or $1.78 to $1.84 per share.
We're also guiding to operating cash flow in the range of $575 million to $625 million which includes $100 million pension plan contribution made in January which is $50 million higher than the 2012 contribution.
We are planning for capital expenditures in the range between $175 million and $200 million and we expect 2013 interest expense to come in between $60 million and $65 million.
The normalized full year effective tax rate for 2013 is projected to be between 25% and 26%.
Now let me take a few minutes to talk about our expectations for the quarterly phasing of 2013 results.
As Mike mentioned recall that we implemented SAP in EMEA in April 2012 and about $28 million of revenue was pulled forward from Q2 into Q1 as a result of the conversion.
So the first and second quarter growth rate should be adjusted to reflect that year-over-year comparison.
We'll also likely start the year with core sales near the low end of our full guidance range similar to the second half of 2012 rate and finish the year out closer to the high end.
On the Renewal cost-saving side of things we've made good progress on the first phase of Renewal and we're on track to capture $90 million to $100 million in cumulative savings by our target date of Q2 2013.
Our 2012 results benefited from about $65 million in cost savings.
The remaining $25 million to $35 million flows through the first half of 2013.
Phase 2 of Project Renewal is expected to generate incremental annualized cost savings of $180 million to $225 million by the middle of 2015.
We will have seen some -- while we have seen some benefit from Phase 2 today we'll reach a more meaningful run rate by the second and third quarters of 2013 as projects are initiated.
We intend for the majority of these savings to be invested back into the -- into strategic SG&amp;A so you won't see this flow straight through to the bottom line.
Instead there'll be a continuation of the shift from structural SG&amp;A to strategic SG&amp;A that began in a meaningful way in Q4 of 2012.
This shift to investment behind the Win Bigger brands drives the acceleration of core sales throughout the year.
As a result the normalized earnings per share growth rates by quarter will likely show a similar sequential acceleration throughout the year.
The SAP related pull-forward last year has an impact on quarterly earnings per share growth rates in addition to sales.
The earnings per share impact related to SAP was between $0.03 and $0.035 so you can anticipate that Q1 2013 normalized earnings per share are likely to be down versus last year's $0.33 per quarter -- normalized.
In summary we're pleased with our Q4 results as well as a solid year.
We hit all the major financial goals that we laid out a year ago in a challenging economic environment and despite significant challenges in our Dcor business.
The Growth Game Plan is changing the way we do business and we believe it will drive tangible results next year and beyond through the acceleration of top line growth as well as good growth in normalized earnings per share.
Thanks very much.
Now I hand the call back over to Mike.
Thanks Doug.
Let me close by providing some reflections on where we are and then we'll open it up to questions.
Our people have done -- gone all in to change this company for the better.
We can be proud of the progress we've made while recognizing we still have tremendous untapped opportunity to leverage the potential of our brands and their latent equity with consumers for competitive advantage in our markets.
The Growth Game Plan is the blueprint that will enable us to unlock that potential and establish Newell as a consistent top performer.
We've made that commitment to consistent delivery while embracing an ambitious change agenda that will enable us to sequentially improve performance.
Our confidence that we can drive forward at the pace we've been moving is strengthened by all that we've accomplished over the last 18 months.
We have made sharp clear portfolio choices by category and by geography.
We are reallocating resources to the best growth ideas.
We're strengthening the capabilities that will drive competitive advantage in design marketing and innovation supply chain and customer development.
We've built a leadership team comprised of top inside and outside talent who have been there and done it and who bring real credentials to bear on our capability agendas.
We're taking decisive action on cost to move money from structural SG&amp;A into our brands.
And we're extending the geographic footprint of the business with great progress in Latin America and an ambition to extend that success to Asia.
As we do all this we can offer our people much more ambitious projects to work on and they'll grow through these experiences.
That's the Growth Game Plan.
It's energizing for me and my team and a compelling opportunity for our shareholders.
I'm confident we have way more opportunity ahead of us than behind and we have a clear line of sight to making Newell a larger faster-growing more global more profitable company.
With that let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Talk a little bit about the core sales outlook for next year in terms of -- talk a little bit about the cadence.
Can you break out the impact of the Dcor business in terms of whether you think that's going to be up year-over-year or is that going to be just less of a drag or do you think it can be additive to growth? And then I guess as you move from the sort of structural investment on the SG&amp;A side to the more marketing let's say how long do you think that pays off and what's the run rate? Okay.
John I'll take those questions.
So on Dcor it's not likely to be a growth lever for us although the overall Home Solutions segment should deliver growth in 2013 despite having Dcor as a drag.
The thing to remember on the Dcor business is the flow through the year.
So we'll continue to have an issue in Q1 related to J.C.
Penney not so much related to our operational challenges from the manufacturing consolidation that we did.
That may get enhanced in the month of March as they do the conversion work in store to their home section reset in April early April.
So that's something we have to watch and we actually don't have as much clarity as you might think we would as to when exactly they're going to make that move.
So there's some dynamic -- we're going to have to look at that dynamically through the first quarter.
I would expect that that reset doesn't get traction until the second half of the year.
So the first half is -- continues to be a bit of a challenge on Dcor.
But as I said in the script the other parts of that segment are really beginning to do reasonably well.
We've really stepped up the merchandising support and frequency in segments of the Rubbermaid Consumer business and we're seeing that respond.
You could see that in our Home Segment results in Q4.
We've established -- we actually have 5 dry periods set up that the new CDO will be able to merchandise around in 2013: one that's being executed right now around the Super Bowl with our food and beverage portion of the consumer portfolio; another that'll happen in April connected to spring clean-up; one around the 4th of July; one around back to school; and then one around Black Friday.
And 4 of those are new relative to prior year.
So we're looking to play the other portions of the portfolio to -- within Home Solutions to compensate for what will be another challenged year albeit the drag will not be as significant as it was in 2012.
With respect to your question on -- of the flow-in of A&amp;P support and other investments and capabilities our flexibility to do that enhances as we go through the year.
We've got in the first half the final tranche of Renewal one savings that flow to the P&amp;L and we'll be -- we will manage that.
It split pretty evenly Q1 Q2.
And then we see in Q2 the beginning of the more substantial flow-in of Renewal 2 savings.
Cumulatively as I said in the script we've got $75 million to work with.
I would expect that spending to start to step up in Q2 but the majority of it will be back-half loaded.
And that's why our core sales growth flows the way it does.
We do have rollover programming that we'll need to support through the entire year connected to InkJoy Year 2 connected to Parker Ingenuity Year 2.
We've launched in Q4 this terrific partnership with a bunch of different artists and music connected to Sharpie self-expression platform which kicked off with the launch of One Direction's tour in the U.S.
And we've got Parkers' 125th anniversary that we'll want to market through the first half of the year.
So it's not as simple as I laid out in the script.
But the step-up will really happen in the back half of the year with the rollover of 12 initiatives getting more continuity of support through the first half.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So just in terms of Babies.
So revenue growth continued to be strong.
You particularly commented on share gains in Graco and then Aprica being able to manage the tough comps.
So what progress have you made though on the cost structure right? Because you talked about limiting investment of this just until it sort of earned the right to get investment dollars.
So if you could update us on that it'd be great.
Well you see the 40% increase in operating income in the year part of that is growth driven part of that is us pulling back on cost structure.
We did make an investment in Q4 to start to build out the brand agenda and you see that reflected in the operating income margin step-back in that segment.
That's sort of upfront costs associated with advertising work and a new omni-channel project that cuts across -- is a marketing program that'll cut across direct-to-consumer communication but all the way in stores.
So those are -- that's upfront funding associated with that.
I'm cautious about putting too much money behind the Baby business for a number of reasons.
We've got -- first of all we've got tremendous innovation-driven momentum right now and that continues into 2013.
So with scarce resources in advertising and promotion I'm not sure I want to double down on Baby when our strategic priorities are really in Tools Commercial Products Writing and in our Home Solutions pillar and they'd all come before Baby in terms of my priorities.
But we've got tremendous momentum.
The thing you've  got to manage when you're looking at these things is whether it makes sense to double down and really play hard on Baby for growth now as other businesses are gearing up for growth and that's an option that we have.
And I want to reserve the right to play it without getting boxed in too much.
But we'll be cautious there because of where Baby stands relative to the others in terms of strategic priorities.
But as we said this business is on a roll.
Kristie and her team have done an outstanding job of catalyzing the organization around the Baby recovery plan and that momentum continued right through Q4 as we lapped Q4 2011 growth.
If you recall Q4 '11 grew 5%.
We've now grown on growth and we've got great momentum.
In the U.S.
now and we're really entering the -- we're coming to the tailwind of Year 2 of momentum in Japan.
The environment as we go forward changes a little bit.
We do have more competitive activity in Japan so we're -- that growth rate will probably temper a little as we go through 2013.
But we expect to still sustain growth but not at -- not the third consecutive of double-digit growth but probably mid-single digits.
And we've -- it's an open run in the U.S.
for us right now.
We're doing all the right things and I'm excited about the prospects for the business there.
Europe will continue to be challenged although Graco has stabilized in Europe.
Our challenge in Europe is on Teutonia which is our brand that's in Germany and Nordic and Poland.
So that's sort of the inside-baseball view on Baby.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the first question just thinking about the gross margin declines on the fourth quarter some of the merchandising efforts.
So I guess the question I have is really about plans with retailers right now maybe it's a little bit more U.S.
focused.
Are you seeing that there is a need for increased cost of doing business or increased spending to kind of drive some of the sales targets that you're looking to do expansion of some of the planograms et cetera? So I guess one are you seeing that some of this increased spending might be an ongoing thing from time to time and kind of weigh down on the gross margin progression that you're looking to do? And two as you exited 2012 were there any issues with any retailers in the U.S.
not wanting to take on any excess inventory or replenishment issues just because of fiscal cliff or the payroll tax and such? So I'll leave it at that.
Yes.
Let me answer the last part of your question first.
These guys are rewarded on return on invested capital.
I mean you guys -- that's how you guys measure their success and so they're very cautious on inventory positions but -- and they're always tight.
And the days where you could sort of play -- work with them on their inventory those are all long gone.
So these guys are managing their inventories really tightly all the time and they're always looking for angles to reduce their inventory position as I would be if I were in their shoes.
So there's really not any -- there's nothing unique going on there that I would ascribe to any of the external dynamics.
I mean a number of our retailers have their fiscal year end at the end of January although a lot -- most of our big partners do and they're doing what they always do as they come into a year-end period.
And so it's not the absolute behavior that matters.
It's the change and the change in behavior that matters to our revenue stream and we don't see anything unique there.
With respect to your question on merchandising frequency which is really what we're focused on not depth of price point but merchandising frequency both -- all of which impacts gross margin we have some businesses that are in frequent purchase dynamic categories.
And therefore if you can -- and they're discretionary.
So if you can interrupt the shopping experience with a brand experience you can drive incremental purchase.
A great example of that is our food and beverage container business within -- in Rubbermaid.
People are -- it's not top of mind to think about replenishing or refreshing the drawer of food and beverage containers that you've got.
So if you can interrupt that experience with an off-shelf display that communicates something about the brand and the products in connection with a moment in time where they're relevant then that's something we should be doing and we should be funding and we should accept the cost of doing that.
That is a good thing for our business.
It will drive incremental growth and I won't shy off getting that right.
Today I think our frequency in Rubbermaid Consumer merchandising is too low in that segment of the portfolio and that's why we put these scale events in place.
So merchandising right around Super Bowl which is the biggest party day of the year the biggest pizza consumption weekend of the year and there's leftovers everywhere well of course we want our food and beverage products merchandised then.
Right after Easter a brilliant time to merchandise.
At July 4 connection to picnics the right time to merchandise.
As mom refreshes her kitchenware in anticipation of back-to-school a right time to merchandise.
And of course at Thanksgiving which is why we do Black Friday the right time to merchandise.
Four of those 5 windows are new merchandising events as we go forward into 2013 and it's the right thing to do for that business.
It's not true in all of our businesses that we ought to be behaving that way.
So it sort of a horses-for-courses mindset that you have to have.
Your question -- behind your question is a concern about gross margin and I think it's worth talking about that.
Q4 is always a step-down quarter for us in gross margin because of the seasonality of our business and the production flow that correlates to it.
So you come off of the seasonal highs in Q2 and Q3 on many of our businesses and you gear down on your manufacturing times before you gear back up in the first quarter as you build inventories back into the seasonal peaks of Q2 and Q3.
What happens in Q4 is you get a fixed cost absorption issue in gross margin because we pull line timeout of the manufacturing schedules and it always steps down.
What was unique in Q4 for us is first of all we have a stronger programming which we wanted to have behind Sharpie music a counter-seasonal platform and behind the launch of Sharpie Metallics which is a counter-seasonal relaunch and you have a big merchandising event around Thanksgiving on Rubbermaid that we made bigger this year because it was the right thing to do.
The sequential decline from Q3 to Q4 is related to the absence of positive price connected to the 2011 price increases.
So we go through 2 quarters now Q4 and Q1 where we won't have the benefit of positive price related to invoice price increases in gross margin but we have price increases.
And the reason we don't is because if you remember commodities dipped through 2012 and there was -- there's no way you can go price if there isn't a reason to go price.
Now commodities have spiked up a bit in the fourth quarter.
And we will go out and price at the end of the first quarter and we'll see the benefit of invoice price increases through the balance of the year.
So I mean these are the dynamics in business.
This is why I didn't want to guide gross margin but I told you I'd provide clarity to it.
And I intend not to guide gross margins again because I'm not going to be handcuffed from making the wrong -- from making the right choices for the business in any given 90-day window.
But strategically we're going to always be focused on increasing gross margin and operating income margin.
And on the full year we should be able to do it.
It'll be driven by a mix of positive price that'll start to creep in Q2 and through Q3 Q4 be driven by a commitment to deliver strong productivity.
It'll be delivered by an orientation to manage mix as best we can and it'll be driven by over time margin accretive innovation which has to come into the -- come through the funnel.
And I'm confident we'll manage to the outcome.
We need to manage too on the full year.
But then again in any given quarter there's going to be moments like the one we're in in Q4 and we were not going to shy off making the right choices for the brands for the sake of trying to manage the optics of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Mike do you think core sales growth will be up in Q1? Or do you think it's going to be down given the comparison issues? I think the way to think about core sales growth is if you strip out the SAP pull-forward.
You have to look at it on an apples-to-apples basis.
So you strip out the SAP pull-forward.
And we've given you guys the numbers there so you can back that out and look at it.
We should see core growth I'd say probably in line with what we've been experiencing in the second half of 2012 maybe a little bit stronger.
But we'll see as -- at the quarter -- as the quarter unfolds.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the SG&amp;A line it came in below what we expected for the second straight quarter.
So I'd just be curious where did it come in versus your internal expectations.
And can you also talk about where you boosted the strategic spending so far in the areas where you have spent? Are you starting to see a payback in terms of top line growth or market share and your level of comfort around that payback or is it a bit too early to judge here? Yes that's a good question.
Let me give you some ratio numbers.
And we don't typically talk about this but I think it's important so that you don't think we're making the wrong choices here.
When we talk about structural SG&amp;A we only talk about the portion of our SG&amp;A our people costs and our administrative costs that connect to the corporate functions.
There are people costs in strategic SG&amp;A.
So strategic SG&amp;A sometimes blurs movements across lines within that segment.
So let me just give you the A&amp;P numbers.
A&amp;P in the fourth quarter was up 30 basis points versus prior year.
So we increased our advertising and promotion investment in the fourth quarter I think by about $6 million.
Within strategic SG&amp;A there were some costs that came out of the people side of the equation as we continue to restructure the company.
And so you -- we'll try to unpack this a little bit more for you guys so you'd have a visibility into this.
On the full year advertising and promotion was up 40 basis points.
So we've been talking strategic SG&amp;A and we'll decide when we want to go to a more granular level but I think it's worth highlighting that for you.
We are going to continue to see the people costs in structural SG&amp;A and also strategic SG&amp;A come down and -- through project -- the final phase of -- for the first phase of Project Renewal and also in the second phase of Project Renewal.
So providing you more visibility to the A&amp;P investment I think is probably wise so you don't jump to the wrong conclusion when you look at the SG&amp;A metrics.
Now question about payback and whether we're getting a return and what we've been spending it on.
As I've said through all of our calls in 2012 the first priority was to get the selling systems right.
In Latin America it's a priority and also in some of our strategic thrust in North America.
So we put money behind feet on the street and selling expense in -- and that's not promotion.
That's people and -- expense in Latin America on Commercial Products on Writing and on Tools.
And in North America we've invested in selling expense on our Medical business Rubbermaid Medical business because we have a lot of opportunity there that we want to pursue.
In the second half of the year we started to step up A&amp;P investment.
Where has our A&amp;P investment gone? We focused our A&amp;P investment behind our news.
So clearly there was A&amp;P increase support behind InkJoy.
There was A&amp;P support behind Parker Ingenuity.
There was A&amp;P support behind the Sharpie self-expression platform and back to school and the Metallics launch in Q4 and the Sharpie music platform in Q4.
We put A&amp;P behind the Irwin brand connected to a dry period we had in September on -- around National Tradesmen Day.
Remember the positioning of that brand is to elevate -- to celebrate what our -- what the tradesmen do to build this country and other countries around the world while also elevating their capabilities through great products.
And so we put merchant -- marketing monies behind -- A&amp;P monies behind National Tradesman Day in September.
And those are the types of bets you can expect us to make going forward into 2013.
So it'll be Year 2 InkJoy.
It'll be Year 2 Sharpie Metallics.
We have another platform launch on Sharpie new item launch and line of products coming in Q2 into the back-to-school season.
We have an Irwin launch in Brazil in the second half of the year.
We've got Parker's 125th anniversary which a number of us were in Shanghai last week to kick it off in China.
And so these are the things our A&amp;P will go against.
How do you measure a return on that? I'm going to shy off from giving you a financial return on those investments.
The thing that I'll look at as a metric will be growth yield.
And so far I feel pretty good about it.
The 2.2% core sales growth in 2012 is a solid number.
If you strip out the Dcor effects and you look at that in both Q4 and on the full year and you look at it in the U.S.
for example the U.S.
in Q4 delivered 2.2% core sales growth.
You just strip out Dcor it was 3.5.
Well 3.5% core sales growth on our portfolio in an environment of no GDP growth is a pretty good outcome.
And if you look at the same numbers in the U.S.
on the full year the 2.3% core growth x Dcor 4% core growth in an environment like 2012 I feel pretty darn good about that.
So are we getting a yield through the investments we're making? I'd argue we are.
The best measure of that is in market share where we can measure it.
But if I look at 4% growth x Dcor in the U.S.
against GDP growth of around 2% and I think about our business which has historically been correlated to GDP I feel okay about that.
In fact I feel pretty good about that particularly in the context of everything we've been changing.
So that's a long answer to your question.
I get accused of being really verbose.
But I think it's -- it was worth sort of probing around that a little bit.
You're buying it? Research Division</strong> Yes comprehensive.
It's good.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I guess one real quick one and then another.
So one what are you thinking on the 2013 tax rate? And then Mike I guess you cited as one of the 2 risks to how the year looks timing of savings.
And I guess historically it's a pretty predictable thing to figure out the sequencing of savings on a restructuring.
So what I guess are the moving parts that might have you particularly concerned about predicting that timing? Sure Chris.
This is Doug.
On the first one we expect the tax rate next year to be between 25% and 26%.
And as you know in this area as the year unfolds and activity takes place in the business we have better visibility as the year progresses because it's so dependent within a range on the geographic mix of earnings.
So 25% to 26% is where I think I'd model.
Yes.
On the flow of savings I mean Chris you're right and we've got a very clear schedule of how the savings should flow in.
What I've said all along is that -- and the things that underpin those savings are very very clear.
So we have that roadmap and that visibility by quarter.
We know how the costs are going to come in.
We know how the savings will come out.
The one thing I've said all along with respect to the change agenda that we've got is that our first priority is to deliver results and deliver the growth and deliver them consistently.
And what we're embarking on now is a very comprehensive change to our organization design.
In the first wave of savings that will come in are connected to Doug's initiatives on best cost finance which are people related and then the work to simplify our structures and to organize the company around development and delivery.
We've set that structure up at the top of the company but we're now going to drive that into action through the company in the first quarter and into the second quarter.
The thing that I reserve the right to do is call an audible if I feel like that change agenda stretches the capacity of the organization too far such that they lose focus on execution.
And so that's the wild card.
Now I don't expect that to be an issue to be honest because this group has blown me away with their capacity to embrace change and then drive change into action.
So I'm cautiously optimistic that we'll be able to deliver exactly in the cadence we hope to.
But the reason to highlight that as a risk is to preserve the right to call an audible if I feel like we're going to stretch the organization too far and cause it to lose focus.
And so that's the issue that -- I'm sorry it's not an issue.
It's the flexibility I'm putting on the table for you guys.
And your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Are you worried at all about the tenor of sales within each quarter? Because it seems like things are kind of getting pushed back to sort of the last month of the quarter just looking at kind of DSOs.
No.
I'm not really worried about that.
I wish our profile was a little bit flatter.
It would enable us to get working capital down.
It's the cycle we're in and have been in for a while so it's hard to break that without taking a pause.
But there's nothing -- it's nothing unique.
You know how these cycles get broken is by stepping away from a period but I'm not prepared to do that.
So the challenge for us is to strengthen the consumption profile in our business so we're not as spiky in our shipment profiles.
So -- I mean that's the short answer to your question Bill.
Once you're in that cycle you can't get out unless you take a quarter off but there's no taking a quarter off.
The key to unlocking that is to strengthen your consumption and your consumer takeaway and your sellout and that it -- that gives you the breathing room to work your way into a more leveled profile.
One of the things I've asked Meri Stevens to look at is that -- is just that because there are all kinds of cost that are associated with a more -- and opportunities in costs and in cash associated with a more leveled profile.
We ought to be able to capture that progressively over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how did -- how does it look leaving December and January so far in terms of shipments? We don't want to comment on where Q1 is but I'm comfortable that we're right on track to where we need to be.
We've got some nice businesses with momentum and like you always do you have some that aren't off to a fine start.
But that'll work its way out through the quarter.
We've got some good things going on.
Like I said we put some merchandising activities and consumer-focused events into the beginning of the year that really helped.
We -- as I mentioned we were just in Shanghai last night -- last week for the launch of Parker 125th and that program is going to roll across all of Parker's big markets.
We've got the big event around Rubbermaid that's connected to Super Bowl which looks like it went very very well.
The CDO executed that well.
So I think -- and we've launched Hilmor last week which will start to contribute through the first half.
So I'm not overly optimistic but I'm not at all concerned.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Could you comment a little bit about the Hilmor opportunity? And just as background to give us some perspective how big are Irwin and Lenox in terms of sales? So if this is maybe the third big brand in that segment why are -- why do you have a right to be in it and what's the size of the opportunity? Yes.
I won't get that specific Connie although I'm happy to provide you some background on why we've entered this segment.
First of all it will be the third leg of the -- third brand leg of -- with the Tools portfolio.
HVAC's a particularly interesting category to us not just in the U.S.
but around the world.
As you see the move from rural living to urban living and you see particularly in many climates that are particularly warm that's going on and so when you look at -- you follow the development of some of our sister industries air-conditioning development's going to go with that infrastructure buildout.
And so HVAC is a very very interesting space to us in the Tools business because of that strategic reality over time.
Now we're going to develop a repeatable model in the U.S.
But over time you should expect us to think about this as a global play for us as part of our Tools program.
Hilmor is interestingly a brand that we've had in the U.K.
but not marketed that we're bringing to the U.S.
The beauty of this segment is the fact that the IP space is wide open.
So what we've designed here is a -- are a number of tools 150 tools in the line but a number of those tools have good proprietary points of difference.
And so we've -- we'd look at these segments and we sort of map the IP space before we make a judgment as to whether we can get in because you don't want to enter with just a me-too product.
You won't be able to kind of protect the margin structure we expect out of these categories.
And so we've gone into this category a because we see the strategic value long term much more broadly than the U.S.
b because the IP space was wide open and the product development and the legal teams have done a great job of protecting and establishing a set of proprietary points of difference in the product portfolio such that we can command a premium price and create a good value proposition for the user.
And so we're optimistic about what this -- how this brand can develop.
How big is the business? 2013 will be the seed year.
I mean what ends up happening in this category is typically the technicians will buy their -- and retool their set of tools once a year.
And so we're entering and we're launching this brand in the right trade windows but the real benefit will come in -- in the second half of 2013 from a growth perspective and into 2014.
Because we've really missed the heart of the 2013 selling season.
We just weren't ready to come prior to the window we came in.
And so this year we'll be modest in terms of the incremental revenue it generates although not small.
And next year we'll be bigger.
And we have an eye on a big business here globally over time because we've established these proprietary points of difference.
So we're optimistic.
The other thing that it does is that it leverages a common selling infrastructure that we've got.
So the Lenox distribution model and the Hilmor distribution model those channels intersect.
And so I don't have to build a vertical-specific sales force.
Rich Wuerthele who runs our Tools business and formerly ran Industrial Products &amp; Services will be able to leverage a common sales force to be able to drive this thing to market.
So you get the efficiency and the flow-through of the margin benefit associated with that.
So it's going to be very interesting.
I'm excited about it.
I love the design work.
A woman named Emily Bavaro is the director up in our IP&amp;S business has been working on this for a number of years and she has done a remarkable job in terms of developing the portfolio of products.
And she and Rich Mathews is the VP of Marketing.
And I'm very excited about what's going to happen.
We're really proud of the launch and how that's gone and we'll see how it gains traction through the year.
Okay.
So if core sales growth is 2% to 4% this year what portion of it can we assign to a Hilmor sell-in? Like is it  of the growth or? No nowhere near that.
Nowhere near okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk a little bit Europe and kind of what you're  seeing and a related question on currency.
And have you seen any improvements to utilization stabilization as we went through the fourth quarter? And are you expecting anything kind of in the first half in terms of just end markets? And then also just on the currency front.
I think you're talking about 100 basis point headwind and you're just coming off a quarter where you had 60 basis point headwind.
I'm trying to figure out what you're looking at in terms of dollar to euro and what else you're seeing that seems a little conservative.
Yes.
Bill on the dollar/euro we're forecasting -- and the euro's been jumping all around as you know.
It's somewhere between $1.31 and $1.35 is where we're thinking throughout the year.
The issue for us is the yen and then there's some other challenges in Latin America.
But we all know where that's going to play out Bill.
We've got -- we got a planning assumption which we've quoted to you.
But you may be right.
It could -- we saw it all over the place this year and could be all over the place next.
We're focused on core sales growth and then we manage and hold the folks accountable to EPS -- their portion of EPS delivery.
So if it breaks favorable to what we've assumed here there'd be some opportunity to either invest faster in the business or to let it flow through the EPS.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of core growth you're seeing or declines in Europe? Europe continues to be a challenge for us.
We have portions of our business that are actually really interesting and we've got portions of our businesses -- our business there that are really difficult.
And that we got to look at -- what I've asked the team to look at is to look at each one of our category country sales and really ask themselves the strategic question about whether we should be doubling down and investing for growth in a more narrow section of Europe and then how would you manage those portions of our European business that are not attractive for margin.
And that's the work that's going on.
John Stipancich and the European leadership team are looking at that as we speak and we've talked about Renewal 2 having 5 work streams associated with it.
One of those work streams is EMEA transformation and the work there doing to understand how to set up Europe for growth going forward.
In the context of what I think is a structural headwind in terms of the macros is going to be -- it really have to be the outcome of that work and that'll inform the cost program and the way we spent our restructuring dollars in Europe.
Stay tuned on that one.
We've got more work to do but that becomes an important next thrust beyond simplifying our organization structure and driving for best cost finance.
It's the third in the 5 work streams that we'll initiate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Again just one other on the Latin American sales force you highlighted.
Was that just a this-quarter event? And can you maybe give us a little color on what they're doing and when they should see a ramp? Yes.
No Bill we've been investing -- it's really the end of year's worth of investments.
So it's the rollover effect of choices we've made along the way and we continue to layer and refine those choices.
Remember at the beginning of the year we said we're going focus our Renewal one savings on sales force investment and that was almost all Latin American focused.
The exception to that was our Rubbermaid Medical systems group where we wanted to strengthen coverage on the health care vertical here because we have a great set of products and a great position in the medical carts business.
So that is not new.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You just highlighted.
That's why I was wondering if...
No I just want to make sure you knew that that was a contributor to the overall investment.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> First question in terms of your outlook on '13 you mentioned earlier Mike that you guys are not assuming any major changes in terms of the macro.
The home builders obviously are sounding a little more optimistic these days.
Are you assuming any improvement at all on the housing side? We've got that baked into our core guidance.
If you look at our Tools business it's been performing quite well in the tough macro.
And part of that is connected to this -- the resurgence of housing in 2012 and we expect to be able to sustain very good growth into 2013 on our Tools business.
Commercial Products has benefited a little bit from that the core of our Commercial Products business not the cleaning side but the refuse side of that and I suspect that'll continue to do quite well.
But I think that's -- that is clearly baked into our numbers.
When I think about housing those are the key beneficiary-ing -- benefiting categories.
Dcor could benefit from that over time if you see a real reset in housing.
I think we've just sort of bounced off the bottom now but there are other issues facing that business that are -- would probably mask whatever housing impact we've seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just secondly you mentioned earlier that you do reserve the right to call an audible this year.
Last year it's probably fair to say you probably did call an audible as you worked through some of the issues for example at Dcor in terms of turning on the strategic SG&amp;A.
It's big.
So when you talk about the increase or step-up in the second half of this year is there a catch-up component to that or is that going to be a normal step-up that you would have done anyway with the spending coming through -- or I'm sorry with the savings coming through? Look I'm not going to just sort of randomly throw money at the brand folks.
I'm going to put money behind that -- money flows to ideas.
So we're going to -- with time here we get the ability to properly resource our biggest ideas.
And we're going to focus it on the things that are consistent with the portfolio role choice we've made through the Growth Game Plan and the ideas that have the greatest right to deliver to win in the marketplace and deliver a sustainable revenue stream for us over time.
And so that's my philosophy.
Richard Davies has joined us as the Head of Marketing.
All the marketing teams now report to him.
He's been on the ground for 4 weeks.
He's sorting through all of what we've got in the funnel and making some judgments about what's strong enough place to big bets on and what's not.
Bill Burke and Mark Tarchetti and Richard and Joe Cavaliere so the marketing and the sales to the operating officer and the development officer have sat down and agreed on what our top 10 growth priorities ought to be for 2013 and we're going to right-resource them.
If there's money left over because we do have substantial amount of money we've got a great line of sight to savings now in the second -- through Q2 forward that money is more than what we need to support those initiatives.
We'll be very -- I'll be very selective in terms of allocating incremental money out.
I'm cautious about that because we need to consistently deliver competitive levels of EPS growth and for us to be a credible investment option for all of your clients.
And so that's really really important.
And while we talk about 2013 being the transition year between the delivery phase and the strategic phase of the Growth Game Plan the reality of our current situation is that we have a lot folks that are looking but are cautious about putting their money into the company and we need to continue to build credibility with those folks.
So that's about consistent delivery and it's about consistent EPS delivery and that probably trumps core sales acceleration in the very near term.
And what I described as the near term is certainly the first half of '13.
We can't have a hiccup on EPS delivery because we get too excited about throwing money into the business and so I'm very cautious about that.
Maybe too cautious some would accuse me of being.
But I think it's in our interest to continue to rebuild that credibility with investors.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the cash flow side of things.
I know you gave me the guidance for tax rate.
But with the refinancing you did on the debt is interest expense kind of running out $17 million a quarter-ish? And then can you remind us kind of with your yield looking fairly competitive now would excess cash flow be thrown more at share buybacks do you think? Are you open to more acquisitions or is the dividend still a priority? On the first item Wendy you're in the right zone on interest.
We expect between $60 million and $65 million of interest expense next year.
So you're right about where that is.
And we've -- as you know we saw some pretty good savings from the couple of refinancings we did this year and the general paydown of debt and the continued low interest environment.
So that's all breaking our way.
That gave us the flexibility Wendy.
I mean the line of sight to that was very helpful in Q4.
As pricing rolled out of gross margin it gave us the breathing room to make some choices.
I didn't want to not bet on Sharpie Metallics because one of the opportunities in Writing is to extend the shoulders of the Writing season so we're not so dependent in the back-to-school window.
And these brands can develop in these windows with the right innovation and marketing programs.
And so the line of sight to that interest benefit was actually quite helpful in making the choice and the willingness to accept some gross margin compression to support the merchandising around that the merchandising around Black Friday and the A&amp;P's support behind Writing.
On the second piece there Wendy we -- as you know we don't have any big maturities coming up until 2015 now that we've gotten nearly 2013 maturity out of the way.
So we're very comfortable that we've got CapEx -- cash flow to fund our capital expenditure needs and support our growth plans.
Cash needs for Project Renewal is obviously a first call and continues to be a first call for us.
You're right the dividend yield is in the range we want it to be in.
And then we'll do -- we'll make steady progress again this year on our repurchase plan.
And the -- to the great flexibility we have we have a very cash-generative business.
But I will tell you that there's more working capital opportunity than we captured and we're going to work hard on that.
Having Meri join the company the Head of the Global Supply Chain and creating a global function is going to be really quite helpful in driving complexity out and getting working capital down and also renegotiating terms with sourcing partners to get -- continue to extend our payable days.
So I think there's more that we can do there.
So we have -- we find ourselves in the position as we exit 2013 with quite a good place with respect to being at the optimal capital structure and being quite cash generative.
It gives us the flexibility to put $100 million into the pension plan as opposed to pension -- as opposed to what we would normally have to -- expect to do at $50 million.
And it also gives us the opportunity to -- as we get the business moving to an accelerated level of core growth to start think about bolt-on acquisitions and potentially strengthen buybacks both.
So that's all in front of us as opposed to the here and now because Doug's comment about making sure we fund Renewal properly is the first priority for cash beyond CapEx and the business.
But it's right around the corner and we have a lot of work to do this year to think through it.
As we think about bolt-ons our strategic priorities the way you should think about -- how we think about bolt-ons is our Win Bigger categories.
Plus our Home Solutions Business is a big business and we want to continue to work on strengthening that pillar as a cash-generating investment arm of our business.
So there's 4 critical pillars.
And then our Baby business is the one that's sort of on the fringe of being a priority.
And the reason that stands outside of the 4 core priorities is because the big opportunity on Baby beyond continuing to sustain our great momentum would be to place a bet on Asia.
And that's a different type of bet than we can make with our other Win Bigger categories because the market -- the Baby gear market does not exist today for example in China.
So you would be investing to build it.
And the A&amp;P cost associated with building a market versus deploying your assets into an existing market are much much different.
Cost of growth is much higher.
So that one -- that business needs some sort of strategic inflection to create the flexibility to make that bet and I would not mortgage Writing Commercial Products Tools or Home Solutions for the sake of that play in China yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The call has lasted a long time so I'm not going to ask hopefully a long question.
Just 2 housekeeping questions.
One explain if you would Doug the normalized tax rate for the fourth quarter.
I'm not sure I understand what utilization of tax attributes means.
And could you explain where the geographic mix of rates are? Yes.
The -- starting with the second one Budd.
Most of the countries that we operate in have different tax rates and they range from more attractive rates in Switzerland for example to less attractive rates by the U.S.
and Japan.
So depending upon where we source our growth from and it's coming from all parts obviously we're in -- we're growing in Latin America as well and there are different growth rates there so depending upon where the growth flows in and how the growth flows in.
And then to your second point whatever underlying attributes we may have in those jurisdictions all that gets kind of thrown into a pot and the final effective tax rate comes out at the other end.
So for example if there's a country that we've been -- have historically lost money in and we are now beginning to make money there's probably a net operating loss attribute that could flow through the rate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So NOLs are -- that's what you're calling an attribute? Is that most of the attributes are NOLs? That's a good example of one.
Foreign tax credits in general would be another one.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second one is -- and this may have to wait for the K.
But I think last year between the domestic and international plans you were about $1.5 billion underfunded for -- that was $1.5 billion projection of the PBO.
What's it looks like this year? You're in -- you're putting a lot more money to the pension plan.
What does the unfunded and the PBO and the assets look like now? We will wait until the K to give you those specific numbers Budd but we are making good progress on that and obviously made the choice in January.
We're just within the last couple of weeks to put a little extra money in the plans in part because of the interest rate environment is so low and the bond that we issued in the fourth quarter gave us the flexibility to put a little more money in there and close that funding gap.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it -- the unfunded higher or lower than last year? No it should be -- well including the January funding it'll be higher than last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The unfunded amount will be higher than last year.
Well it should be -- with the January funding that we're making.
So we'll sort it all out for you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
We'll be curious to see what it looks like in the K.
Your next question comes from the line of Leigh Ferst with Wellington Shields.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on -- in your examples of the success with your customer partnerships? Yes.
We've got some really interesting stuff unfolding.
We've got tremendous growth in the food drug mass channel.
A guy named Keith Duncan we brought in to lead that channel has closed an incredible number of distribution voids and the coverage model that the new Customer Development Organization has enabled us to create is helping us in that respect.
And so we've got great momentum with our grocery channel customers and with the drug -- with the dollar channel customers as a result of that new coverage reach that we've gotten through the construction of the CDO.
We've talked about the Rubbermaid merchandising windows that we've got enabled by good conversations with our customers about driving the food and beverage component of the Rubbermaid Consumer business off the shelf and onto the floor and good collaboration around the vehicles that we've created to do that.
We've got really fast-growing e-tailing growth both through our existing retailers who have established e-businesses and through dedicated e-tailers and that is a function of a different coverage model there.
But it's very very early days.
So I'm very excited about the continued upside that'll come through the Customer Development Organization.
We are building that out in the U.S.
because we believe it's a reputable model that can be applied in other countries around the world.
And so our learning both in terms of the design of the structure and the impact of the business will inform our choices on how we sequence deployment of that structure into new markets probably not until 2014.
We need to get a good full year of experience under our belt under Joe Cavaliere's leadership and then we think about what we do next.
So Leigh I'm really pleased with the kind of impact it's had so far and the possibilities going forward.
And this concludes our question-and-answer period.
If we were unable to get to your questions please call the Investor Relations team at (770) 418-7075.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for any concluding remarks.
Well I appreciate everybody hanging in there through the Q&amp;As.
As I said we are very proud of the work we've done to both drive delivery in 2012 while also driving change and that theme will continue into 2013.
The transformation work associated with the second phase of Project Renewal's upon us.
And this -- the team that I have the privilege of leading has demonstrated to me that they've got the capacity to continue to drive delivery while driving change going forward.
So thanks for all of your support and for your questions and we look forward to catching up with you at the next moment that we have an opportunity to do so.
Thanks again.
Bye.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (800) 585-8367 with an access code of 89518342 starting 2 hours followed by the end of today's call.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Thanks Brent and thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
On the call with me today are Mike Polk Newell Rubbermaid's President and CEO; and Doug Martin CFO.
Before we get started I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions.
Actual results or outcomes could differ materially from management's expectations and plans.
We caution you to consider the important risk factors described in our press release and in our various SEC filings.
Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures including but not limited to core sales normalized operating margin and normalized EPS are provided because management believes that they provide insights which enable investors to better understand and analyze our ongoing results.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings release and as part of the slide deck that's available on our website.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Mike Polk.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
We have 3 objectives today.
First I'll review our first quarter results.
Second I'll update you on the progress we're making driving the Growth Game Plan into action including our decision to sell our Hardware and Teach Platform businesses.
And third I'll provide you my perspective on the balance of 2013.
There are a couple of moving parts in Q1 2013 and we'll bring as much clarity as possible to the numbers so you can get a clean read on the underlying performance of the company.
All the numbers we will share today relate to our business on a continuing basis so excluding the Hardware and Teach Platform businesses.
We'll also talk to 2013 adjusted for the impact of the 2012 European SAP implementation.
So let's get going.
Our Q1 performance represents our seventh consecutive quarter of consistent delivery.
The results are in line with our expectations and set the stage for a solid 2013.
Our Q1 2013 core sales grew 2.5% adjusted for the 2012 European SAP-related timing shift from Q2 2012 to Q1 2012.
Q1 2013 gross margin improved sequentially to 38.2% up 110 basis points versus Q4 2012 but down 80 basis points versus prior year due in large part to the unusually high gross margins in Q1 2012 related to the European SAP pull forward and higher 2013 customer programming investment in a select number of businesses in Q1.
As a result of a very full Project Renewal change agenda we saw meaningful benefits in both structural and strategic SG&amp;A in Q1.
During the quarter we restructured the marketing and R&amp;D and design organizations implemented the next phase of best cost finance and restructured the 2 Tools global business units into 1 Tools segment combining the functional leadership teams.
During the transition period in marketing we also chose to tightly manage marketing investment as we made substantial leadership changes in the key roles that typically manage the spend.
The renewal changes coupled with tight management of Q1 spending resulted in a 40-basis point increase in normalized operating income margin versus prior year adjusted for SAP timing.
We delivered normalized EPS of $0.35 9.4% ahead of prior year and $0.03 ahead of consensus.
Remember Q1 2012 normalized EPS was favorably impacted by about $0.03 of earnings related to the European SAP pull forward.
So the Q1 2013 normalized EPS of $0.35 increased about $0.06 versus prior year adjusted for SAP.
Importantly our Q1 2013 result was bolstered by about $0.03 of net favorable discrete tax benefit that we will now use to help offset earnings dilution associated with the planned sale of our Hardware and Teach Platform businesses.
I think these are good results up against tough comparisons and I'm once again proud of the organization for driving delivery while simultaneously driving change.
In Q1 we drove a jam-packed change agenda.
We rolled out the new operating model reorganizing the company around the first 2 pillars of the Growth Game Plan: development where we make our brands really matter; and delivery where we're building an execution powerhouse that delivers best-in-class results.
We restructured our Tools segment functional leadership team merging talent from the industrial products and services with construction tools and accessories.
We announced the next round of change in finance as part of our best cost finance initiative.
We created a comprehensive plan to simplify and transform the profitability of our European operations resourcing the businesses aligned to its growth potential.
Subject to the necessary consultation processes in Europe many of these changes will take effect in late 2013.
We restructured procurement simplifying the organization and recruited a new leader of direct procurement from General Electric.
We initiated work to find buyers for our Hardware and Teach Platform businesses.
And with the movement of these businesses to discontinued operations we have reduced the number of operating segments from 6 to 5: Commercial Tools Writing Home Solutions and Baby &amp; Parenting.
As I said we've restructured marketing and R&amp;D and design reducing our people cost by almost 30% while at the same time recruiting new talent to blend consistency at Newell with new leadership and international perspectives.
In Q1 new marketing and design leaders have joined from Christian Dior Electrolux and Whirlpool.
We launched Hilmor our newest tools brand that will compete in the growing U.S.
HVAC and refrigeration market.
We also prepared for the launch of Sharpie Neon in the U.S.
our second new line of premium-priced Sharpies following the launch of Sharpie Metallics last fall.
We expanded further into the hand tools market in Latin America with the launch of an innovative new product Irwin Dupla a new double-sided hacksaw that's off to a very fast start across the region.
We created a larger independent consumer marketing insights function that will establish the insight foundations for accelerated growth adding 50% more headcount and almost doubling our strategic research budget.
In our commitment to transform Newell into a design-driven company we announced the creation of a new design center that will open in 2014 and house almost all of our industrial and graphic designers in a new creative work environment.
So we're driving the Growth Game Plan into action and at the same time have delivered a solid set of results.
Let me pass the baton to Doug now to unpack our Q1 performance further.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Before I dive into the results I'll remind you as Mike did that effective in Q1 we reclassified the company's Hardware and Teach Platform businesses into discontinued operations.
These include Bulldog SHUR-LINE Ashland Amerock the drapery hardware business within the Home Solutions segment and Mimio.
The results of operations of these are reported as discontinued operations in the company's financial statements.
In addition to a small profit in the quarter on these businesses we recorded a $10 million impairment on the Teach business.
The remaining businesses in the specialty segment namely Dymo Office and Endicia have become part of the Writing segment and the results our consolidated within.
The former specialty segment has been eliminated.
These stated quarterly results for 2012 and 2011 have been posted on the company's website in the Quarterly Earnings section of the Investor Relations site.
Now turning more specifically to the numbers.
Newell reported net sales for the quarter of $1.24 billion an 80 basis point decline versus prior year.
Core sales which exclude the impact of unfavorable foreign currency increased 20 basis points.
Recall also that last year's first quarter included approximately $28 million of sales related to our EMEA SAP go-live that were pulled forward from the second quarter.
First quarter sales grew 2.5% if we adjust last year for the impact of that pull forward.
Our company-wide gross margin was 38.2% in Q1 an 80 basis point year-over-year decline.
Incremental investments in customer programming and the favorable impact of last year's SAP pull forward drove the decline.
Input cost inflation was offset by productivity.
For the full year we continue to expect year-over-year expansion in gross margin.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense decreased $8 million to last year declining 40 basis points to 27% of sales.
Renewal savings enabled us to focus strategic investment behind marketing news in Tools Commercial Products and Baby.
We expect to continue to accelerate strategic spending behind our brands sequentially as we progress through 2013.
Reported first quarter operating margin was 7.9% compared with 9.9% in the prior year.
On a normalized basis Q1 operating margin was 11.2% a 40 basis point decrease from the prior year reflecting the absence of approximately $13 million in SAP timing-related benefits partially offset by cost savings from Project Renewal.
Interest expense was $14.6 million a 28% reduction from 2012 due to the work that we did last year to strengthen our balance sheet.
Our normalized tax rate was 16.5% attributable to onetime favorable discrete period net benefits of approximately $8 million to record net international deferred tax assets.
Other expense in the quarter reflects the devaluation of the bolivar in Venezuela.
Now because Venezuela is a hyperinflationary country for accounting purposes renewal the initial devaluation impact of approximately $11 million is recorded below operating income and other expense rather than in the equity section.
First quarter reported earnings per share were $0.19 compared with $0.27 in the prior period.
Normalized earnings per share which exclude restructuring and restructuring-related costs and discontinued operations were $0.35 a 9.4% increase from a year ago.
This improvement was largely attributable to the more favorable tax rate.
Last year's normalized earnings per share also included approximately $0.03 of SAP-related benefit.
So the underlying normalized earnings per share growth rate excluding both the 2013 tax benefit and the 2012 SAP benefit is about $0.03 or around 10%.
In the first quarter we've used operating cash of $123.1 million and this compares with the use of $47.4 million in the prior year.
The change was driven primarily by a voluntary pension plan contribution we made this year in the amount of $100 million.
In last year's first quarter the pension contribution was $25 million.
We also returned $78.3 million to shareholders in the quarter in the form of $44.5 million in dividends and $33.8 million for the repurchase of 1.4 million shares.
Program to date the company has repurchased 9.7 million shares at an average price of $17.65 for a total of $171.4 million.
Turning now to a little more detail on the segments.
Reported net sales in our Commercial Products segment grew 4.4%.
Core sales rose 4.9% and core sales excluding last year's SAP benefit grew 6.1%.
Commercial Products sales were strong in North America driven by healthy order rates across most products and customers.
In the U.S.
our health care platform continued its double-digit core growth driven by new innovation like our new CareLink mobile nurse station.
Latin America also grew double digits as sales force and local manufacturing investments continue to drive growth.
Recall that sales force capability investments were part of where we decided to make some renewal investments last year and those investments are yielding growth dividends.
Operating margin for this segment was 11.8% up 120 basis points due to structural cost reductions partially offset by increased investment in emerging markets.
The Tools segment delivered a reported sales decline of 1%.
Core sales grew 70 basis points and core sales excluding SAP were 5.1%.
This strong underlying performance was driven by double-digit growth in Latin America where we have invested heavily in selling systems and new products like the recent launch of Irwin Dupla our new double-sided hacksaw.
Normalized operating margin in Tools declined 520 basis points to 9.9% as a result of heavy investment behind the launch of Irwin Dupla in Latin America and Hilmor in North America increased selling investment in Latin America and input cost inflation that was not fully covered by productivity and pricing in the quarter.
In our Writing segment first quarter reported sales fell 9.3%.
Core sales decreased 8.5% and core sales excluding the SAP benefit declined 4.5%.
We faced a tough comp as we lapped the launch of both Parker Ingenuity in Asia and Paper Mate InkJoy in the prior year period.
Fine Writing sales were also negatively impacted by continued macro challenges in Europe and a slowdown in Asia as we transition our distribution model in China to better align inventory levels with consumer POS.
Our weaker performance was accomplished by sluggish markets -- was compounded rather by sluggish markets in the U.S.
office superstore channel.
We have a very strong set of Writing marketing plans for the balance of 2013 with year 2 innovation and launch support on Paper Mate InkJoy.
Solid programming behind Parker's 125th anniversary year 2 support on Sharpie Metallics strengthened back-to-school merchandising plans and the 2013 back-to-school launch of Sharpie Neon.
And as the category leader in the U.S.
we plan to spend on writing brand at historically high levels in the back-to-school time frame despite the uncertain channel dynamics in order to strengthen our leadership share positions and jump-start market growth in the category.
First quarter normalized operating margin in the Writing segment was 18.6% up 90 basis points due to improved gross margins driven by productivity and planned SG&amp;A reductions as compared with last year's InkJoy launch.
Our Baby segment also delivered strong results despite having to lap double-digit growth in the prior period.
Reported sales growth was 4.1%.
Core sales growth was 6.4% and excluding SAP core sales growth was 7.9%.
Again the formula for success has been winning innovation and strengthened customer partnerships.
In the first quarter of 2013 we significantly increased distribution behind Graco new items in the U.S.
and Europe and our Baby team was recognized by our largest Baby customer as the 2012 global vendor of the year and by our second-largest Baby customer as category captain.
In Japan Aprica also grew nicely driven by increased promotional activity and new products at retail.
Baby's Q1 normalized operating margin was 12.6% up 30 basis points to last year.
The Home Solutions segment which was a drag on the growth rate in 2012 turned positive in Q1 behind very good execution in the U.S.
of the first of 5 merchandising scale events on Rubbermaid and steady progress on our Dcor blinds business.
The Home Solutions' reported sales growth was 3.7% and core sales growth was 3.9%.
The Dcor business which was down low single digits last year is starting to stabilize but still has a ways to go to become a growth contributor.
Home Solutions' first quarter normalized operating margin was 10.1% a 60 basis point improvement versus the prior year reflecting higher sales volume and the benefit of Project Renewal savings.
Looking at Q1 sales by geography North American core sales grew 2.5% by strong performances in Commercial Products Baby &amp; Parenting and Home Solutions.
In EMEA core sales fell 17.2% versus last year's results which included the SAP pull forward.
Excluding that $28 million benefit in 2012 core sales declined 3.5% which reflects ongoing macro challenges in Western Europe and is consistent with our expectations and what we experienced last year.
In Latin America core sales grew a very strong 28.6% with strong growth across all of our businesses.
In Asia Pacific core sales fell by 5.3% due largely to the previously discussed step back in Fine Writing in China partially offset by continued growth in Aprica and Fine Writing in Japan.
The emerging markets' growth rate was slightly below last year's low double-digit rate as the acceleration in Latin America was partially offset by declines in China as a result of our decision to reset our route-to-market model in China on Fine Writing.
Our developed world core sales growth adjusted for SAP was nearly 2% driven by good growth in the United States of nearly 3%.
We've also made very good progress on the first phase of Project Renewal.
Through the end of Q1 we've realized $80 million of savings and are on track to capture $90 million to $100 million in cumulative savings by our target date of Q2 2013.
The second phase of Project Renewal is expected to generate an incremental annualized cost savings of $180 million to $225 million by the middle of 2015.
We expect the benefits of Phase 2 to start flowing through in a meaningful way by the second and third quarters of this year.
And we intend for the majority of these savings to be invested back into strategic SG&amp;A such as sales force advertising and promotion product development consumer research and capability building to drive acceleration of core sales growth in our priority segments and markets.
In summary we are pleased with our Q1 results and our continued progress in driving the Growth Game Plan into action.
Mike? Thanks Doug.
Now just a few words in the businesses we plan to sell.
Our Hardware and Teach Platform businesses are good businesses run by talented people with a lot of potential to benefit from the inevitable economic recovery especially in housing.
They have a lot of heritage with our company and the people the brands and their history with Newell will be missed.
But the businesses are not core to our strategy and as a consequence have not gotten the strategic focus they deserve.
In my experience noncore assets almost always perform better in the hands of focused owners.
Focused owners invest more in these businesses to build them because they are in fact strategic to them.
We believe the current market conditions are right so we've decided to exit now.
Over the last 3 years our continuing business grew core sales about 60 basis points faster than Newell did with the planned divestitures included.
We had nearly a 40-basis-point higher normalized operating income margin and we grew normalized operating income about 110 basis points faster.
So with a more focused portfolio Newell Rubbermaid becomes a faster growing higher-margin business.
Restated 2012 results for the movement of our Hardware and Teach Platform businesses to discontinued operations are as follows: Newell Rubbermaid's 2012 net sales were $5.58 billion normalized operating income margin was 13% normalized earnings per share was $1.67.
In 2013 we intend to fully cover the lost impact of the disc ops businesses.
The normalized EPS over delivery of $0.03 in Q1 2013 will help us cover the nearly $0.04 of lost earnings associated with the Hardware and Teach Platform businesses.
We have a line of sight to accelerated Project Renewal savings that will enable us to fully cover the lost earnings flow and strip out any retained costs so that we stay on our EPS glide path in 2013 and 2014.
We're confident we can do this without compromising our Growth Game Plan drive to increase brand support for accelerated growth on our priority businesses and in our priority markets.
So let's now turn to our 2013 outlook.
As a result of these changes we're reaffirming our 2013 full year guidance against the restated 2012 base as follows: core sales growth of 2% to 4% this is unchanged versus prior guidance; normalized operating income margin expansion up to 20 basis points this is unchanged versus prior guidance; normalized EPS of $1.78 to $1.84 this is unchanged versus prior guidance but now represents normalized EPS growth of 7% to 10% above our restated 2012 normalized EPS of $1.67; operating cash flow of $575 million to $625 million this is unchanged versus prior guidance.
There are 2 key factors that could influence our delivery on full year guidance in 2013.
First our delivery of the Project Renewal savings.
Second the performance of our Writing segment.
On savings we're making progress but still have a lot to do.
Our focus is on the 5 work streams associated with Phase 2 of Project Renewal announced in Q4 2012.
We have projects initiated in all 5 work streams and as Doug said we will deliver the 2013 savings on time and in full.
We also have a good pipeline of savings we can accelerate that will help cover the lost earnings cash flow associated with our planned divestitures.
The savings associated with Phase 2 of Project Renewal are backloaded in 2013 and as such the benefits to the P&amp;L will accelerate from mid-Q2 forward.
We will also have choices to make about how much of the savings flow to brand support and how much falls to normalized EPS.
Our dominant logic is that the brands need more support than they have today.
Our ability to accelerate growth is contingent on increasing brand support and we have not made enough progress here yet.
The good news is we have clear line of sight to the savings and I'm confident we have the risks of delivery reasonably well balanced.
The second key factor that could influence where we land in our guidance range is the performance of our Writing business.
As expected Writing had a weaker start to the year as we lap the Paper Mate InkJoy and Parker Ingenuity launches and we took the choice to reset our route-to-market approach on Fine Writing in China.
As Doug mentioned our Writing plans in the balance of the year are strong.
We have terrific momentum in Latin America with strong double-digit growth in Q1 which we expect to continue through the year.
In the U.S.
we're staged for more back-to-school display in merchandising this year than last.
We have heavy marketing support planned in Q3 behind a good flow of innovation with year 2 of InkJoy Sharpie Metallics and the launch of Sharpie Neon.
And we plan to extend the shoulders of the season into October and November with new consumer-facing programs.
So we feel good about our brands and the ideas we're bringing to market despite this sluggish start and the tough market conditions.
Within Writing there are 3 factors that could influence the flow of overall Newell results in 2013.
First the timing of our Fine Writing recovery in China.
Second the timing of U.S.
back-to-school shipments.
Third the timing of the consolidation of the U.S.
office superstore channel and the resulting retailer inventory liquidation.
On Fine Writing in China we expect to get back to growth in the second half of 2013.
We have more work to do in Q2 but we intend to play for the long term accept the negative growth in Q2 and see the Fine Writing reset all the way through.
Predicting back-to-school selling timing is more art than science as you know.
We do know that many U.S.
retailers have said they will not take inventory into their systems until the fourth -- July 4 merchandising has largely moved through their stores.
This year July 4 falls on a Thursday so more shipments may slip from the last week of June into the first week of July.
Finally the consolidation of the U.S.
office superstore channel is likely to be an overhang on the U.S.
Writing business for some time to come.
We expect a pretty significant liquidation of retailer inventory to occur shortly after the Office Depot and OfficeMax deal closes.
We intend to proactively manage down inventories after the back-to-school merchandising window so that we're not long with them prior to their deal closing.
This planning approach will help us avoid tough conversations and expensive discounting as they consolidate distribution networks.
This certainly means a less significant back-to-school replenishment season for us in September than last year but likely a better consumption-driven selling flow in early Q4.
Our total company outlook assumes a no to slow growth year in 2013 on the Writing segment and then a return to greater growth in 2014.
While we have all of this factored into our full year guidance and our internal quarterly forecast based on looking at the quarterly consensus I'm pretty sure that some of you don't have these shifts properly factored in.
There are few things to keep in mind as you revisit your models.
Our normalized EPS will experience $0.01 of dilution per quarter in the remaining quarters given the movement of the Hardware and Teach Platform businesses to discontinued operations.
Versus last year a higher proportion of U.S.
back-to-school sell-in will occur in Q3 rather than Q2.
However the September replenishment activity in Q3 will be weaker than a year ago washing out some of the revenue upside in Q3.
Additionally we will spend significantly more in marketing in Q3 on Writing than we did a year ago so revenue may not flow to earnings in the way it typically does on Writing in Q3.
Finally our renewal savings accelerate through the year with the largest year-over-year impact in Q4.
That should influence your thinking on earnings flow perhaps a little more than it does to date.
While we don't provide quarterly guidance my view in all of this is that the normalized EPS will be much more evenly distributed across the remaining 3 quarters of the year than it has been in past years.
We continue to believe the middle of our full year guidance range is the best estimate for our 2013 delivery with the first steps slower than the second in momentum building through the year.
And this is consistent with what we said in January.
The line of sight we have to savings through Project Renewal makes the high side of our normalized EPS range certainly possible but the probability is moderated by the choices we're making on the Writing business and our drive to increase brand investment for accelerated performance.
So let me close by saying we're pleased with the start of the year.
There's no doubt this is a time of great change at Newell and it will take change of this nature to recast the future of our company.
My new leadership team is on board and set to make the new operating model work.
We're driving a more consistent cadence of delivery while simultaneously driving change and we recognize that neither the delivery nor the change has come easily particularly in this economy.
I have no delusions about where we stand today and how much more work is left to be done.
Our confidence is strengthened by the fact that we are asking a lot of our employees and they're rising to this challenge.
They're embracing the changes we're making far better than I had hoped and that along with good performance gives us permission to change further and faster.
I hope you see through our track record that we're committed to building a stronger company while also creating value for all of our constituents.
You saw it last year with good results and strong returns and you'll continue to see it in what we achieve in 2013.
We're all committed to making our Newell Rubbermaid a larger fast-growing more global more profitable company.
With that let me open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to go back to the divestitures and since this is kind of disparate businesses between Teach and Hardware is this kind of a clean sweep throughout the business of a once-and-done or will you continue to look at other aspect and potentially sell things here and there? Yes let me make sure we're clear.
We've got 2 separate processes working on the Teach Platform and the Hardware Platform because obviously those businesses don't work together.
Obviously Hardware has the opportunity to participate in what will eventually be a resurgent economy and Teach also benefits from that as school budgets and municipality budgets improve.
But they are separate processes.
I've said all along if you recall back all the way back to the Back-to-School Conference in 2011 I said there were about $300 million worth of business that didn't fit within our portfolio and wasn't really connected to our core strategies.
And what you see today is the outcome of that observation.
We're going to work hard to strengthen our portfolio over time.
Obviously our energy is focused on our organic performance.
So I think this is for now the right set of steps to take to strengthen the portfolio.
It makes the company faster-growing and higher-margin and more focused.
And while I wouldn't rule out in the future us either feeding the portfolio and doing some more weeding I think that that's not on the agenda in the very near term.
So our focus is on strengthening the agenda driving the Growth Game Plan strengthening our organic performance driving the Growth Game Plan into action and building the capabilities that we've talked about building over the last number of months.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And to just follow up on the Writing instruments historically you haven't had that much of a correlation with what's going on in the office market can you maybe give us some more color of are you expecting half of the store base between OfficeMax and Office Depot to close or are you just seeing worrisome trends or what are you seeing where that's correlating a little bit more? Well we don't see anything at this point because their deal is not done.
And I think they're going to be drawn out into the second half of the year as best I can tell.
You've seen their reported results and you've seen some of our competitors who reported last week in Writing talk to the channel dynamics.
I mean I think their general assessment of the channel dynamics are accurate.
We have the benefit of stronger brands and good marketing and innovation plans in place but certainly feel the effects of that in our numbers.
I think as back-to-school -- the back-to-school window kicks in we'll see some of that strengthen.
As our spending increases on the brands as the category leader in the U.S.
we have a responsibility to drive category growth.
And you'll see us do that as Doug and I mentioned in Q3.
But I think it's going to be a tough year for the U.S.
super store channel.
Now with respect to what happens post the closure of the deal we can only speculate obviously.
The thing that we want to make sure we do from a planning perspective is not put our head in the sand with respect to what I would do if I were in their shoes.
And you bring 2 companies together you likely would go after the distribution network efficiencies.
And with respect to store locations close to each other you're not going to have redundancies there.
So there is going to be as I said in CAGNY and on the prior call there's going to be probably a 90- to 120-day period where they're going to go through the rationalization that you need to go through to deliver your synergies.
And that will affect all of us in the market.
And all I'm saying to you today is that we're going to plan for that we're not going to have that happen to us.
Because you can get into all kinds of inefficient discussions if you don't go proactive.
And so the reason there's a governor on our growth on the full year in Writing is in part related to that and in part related to the fact that we're not going to replicate the pipeline fill associated with the launch of InkJoy and Ingenuity.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see what you thought the impact of weather was in the quarter.
You did adjust for the pull forward last year but I know last year obviously you did benefit a little bit as well from the early onset of spring.
So I'm curious if you guys have quantified what the impact might have been year-over-year.
Joe I didn't ask the team to sort of figure that out.
I asked the team to spend their time focusing on how to deal with it in this year's performance.
Clearly last year in the U.S.
you all recall that the right half of the country benefited from the warm spring and everybody benefited from that all the home centers and we did.
You can't do anything about the weather.
I used to run an ice cream business and a ready-to-drink tea business and you really could get screwed up with weather challenges.
But you can't do anything about it so you have to overcome it.
What I'm really pleased about in the first quarter is that our Commercial business delivered 6.1% growth adjusted for SAP and the Tools business delivered 5.1% growth adjusted for SAP and that's well ahead of sort of my midpoint plan for the quarter.
Writing a little bit worse on the office channel challenges.
And based on what I've seen our peer companies report it's generally better than what others have reported.
So it just speaks to the underlying momentum and the good leadership that my Tools and Commercial team delivered.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
Just moving to the tax benefit $0.03 in the quarter.
Did you guys know about that early on in the quarter and adjust your spending to that or was that a late quarter surprise? I'll let Doug handle.
Yes I wouldn't say it was a surprise Joe.
It's something that we -- it's one of the period type tax adjustments that are required to be made by companies like ours.
We did have some visibility to it as we got to the middle part of the quarter and as Mike said we'll use that to help above-the-line activities through the rest of the year.
Yes let me build on that.
We definitely did not use it to fund incremental investment like we did in Q4.
If you'll recall we had some below-the-line benefits in Q4 that helped us deal with gross margin challenges in that window and still keep spending up.
We went through a fundamental change in our marketing and R&amp;D and design organization in the first quarter.
I mentioned the fact that 30% of our people costs are going to come out of that area.
And in the context of that with new leadership a new org design and people moving roles there was no way I was going to spend a lot of money in the first quarter in part because a number of jobs changed for the key people that control that spend.
And so we pulled way back in the first quarter.
So I'm actually quite pleased with the core sales results in that context.
We're going to spend it back obviously I mentioned in Q3 on the Writing business so that we really play for a good pull through consumption period.
But no you wouldn't see big spending in Q1 this year.
And against last year that was up against the InkJoy launch in North America.
So the year-over-year comparisons are quite meaningful which is how in the context of an 80-basis-point gross margin decline you get 40 basis points of normalized operating income margin benefit adjusted for SAP.
So the answer -- the short answer to your question is no we didn't take the tax and spend it.
We're holding the tax as a benefit against the dilution effect associated with Hardware and Teach.
And then obviously that helps you in the short term.
We got to do the cost work to sustain that benefit into '14 and that's why I say we'll accelerate renewal savings as fast as we can so that when we get out of this fiscal year we got a run rate that allows us to stay on the 2014 glide path the EPS glide path that we've been on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one last one.
On that '14 glide path what's the use of proceeds that you expect for the divested businesses? Well we don't know what the proceeds will be yet.
So until I know what the proceeds will be I think I'll hold off on answering that question but there's obviously a number of different things that we can do.
And you can see through our behaviors over time that we strike the right balance between managing our capital structure and doing shareholder-friendly things.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to try to understand a little better the growth rates x SAP and particularly Baby Tools and Commercial.
And I guess the context I'm looking for is that you guys just said you probably didn't go heavy up on marketing this quarter.
You probably pulled a little back.
What's the sustainability of those growth rates and can you tie in I guess the investments you've made so far on the savings that you've generated as to why or why not these growth rates where they are today the 4.9 in Commercial the 6 -- or the 7.9 in Baby &amp; Parenting.
How sustainable those are? Look like I said I'm pleased with that.
You'll remember last year we've made a significant investment in sales force using the Project Renewal savings focused on Commercial and on Tools.
And the benefit of those choices remember it's in the emerging markets particularly in Latin America.
The benefits of those choices don't play out immediately.
You have to hire the people you got to train the people and we're starting to see that really play out in both businesses particularly on Tools.
Commercial Products had a great innovation quarter the CareLink nurse station is a big innovation in the health care vertical that Commercial owns.
And we've also invested in North American sales force in Commercial that's yielding the right dividends -- growth dividends.
So I think you're actually seeing the choices we made last year play out.
Combination of innovation strength and selling and absent of a real big step-up in brand support from an advertising or promotion standpoint.
That's a pretty good outcome.
On Baby I just got to say that Kristie and her team both the development and delivery side of that business and our supply partner are doing an amazing job.
The CDO is part of that as well the Customer Development Organization is part of that as well.
We're really firing on all cylinders now in our Baby business.
And it's a combination of excellent innovation and a strong supply network and relationship and a real investment in strengthened dialogues and seniority of our selling organization in connection to our key business partners.
And so we're winning share in North America.
We continue to win share in Japan.
The gratifying thing to see in the first quarter is that in Europe we see some stabilization in Baby.
So it's very good progress.
And I'm pleased with it and I'm really pleased about the impact that the changes we made in leadership in that team are having.
It takes 18 months to 2 years to kind of get things like this to really turn.
And this was a broken business in early 2011.
And I think it's very gratifying to see where we are today.
I maintain a level of constructive dissatisfaction on everything that we're involved with.
So I don't tell the Baby people as much as I should about how I feel about them because I don't want them to get complacent but the reality is we made a good run.
Now we've got a lot more to do in Baby and we have a lot more opportunity and we want to sustain this momentum going forward.
And I think you can look forward a couple of months and feel very very good about it.
We see the POS responding to the innovation and the greater strategic dialogue that we're having with our key customers.
And I hope we're able to sustain that.
We want to keep the pressure on ourselves to do just that.
Research Division</strong> And I guess what are the bogeys that that business has to hit for you to want to allocate more investment dollars? Is the picture getting any clear? Look our strategic priorities are quite clear Commercial Products Tools and Writing.
Creating a little bit more coherence in our Home Solutions business but it's a big business for us.
We've got to keep that business healthy so that it can spin off the cash and profit that we need to invest to deliver our ambition on Commercial Products Tools and Writing.
And I think the thing we have to ask our Writing -- our Baby team to do is to continue to do what they're doing which is be very very sparse in terms of the way they invest their money and managing it as if they owned it because we've got too many other priorities in the other places that offer more strategic value to us long term.
What I like about our new portfolio is it's much more focused.
So I won't rule out some money flowing to Baby but I think it's going to really be a story that's built on innovation which we're obviously really funding and strong sales leadership and insight to drive conversion at the point of availability.
And that'll be the story on Baby going forward.
I can't -- there's no -- once you set your strategic priorities I'm not one for going back and revisiting them.
We got a 5-year plan 5-year framework.
We'll continue to do what we need to do to make sure we're creating value in Baby.
So we're going to focus on profitability and focus on growth and we can do it with the resources we have.
Obviously we've shown that.
We need to sustain that going forward.
And I don't think it's a double-down moment for Baby.
If we can deliver mid-single digits low to mid single-digit growth in that business for the foreseeable future we will create a ton of value for our shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Couple of questions.
What percentage of writing instrument sales do Office Depot and OfficeMax represent ballpark? We haven't given that number out.
I'm reluctant to do that Connie.
I'll just say that one of them is in our top 10 in North America and one of them is not.
Okay.
On the discontinued operations...
Connie that was total Newell I just gave you not Writing.
Of course they're in our top 5 in Writing.
On the discontinued ops what's the magnitude of stranded overhead do you think? Yes Connie we have stranded overhead in the $0.05 to $0.06 range on a full year annualized basis in those businesses that we've identified and are building plans around to take out.
Now some of that is as you know there's some art and science in allocating cost across our businesses so it may be -- it could be a little better or it could be a little worse but in that range.
And obviously Connie we don't have to deal with that until we sell these assets.
And they will likely be a shared services arrangement in place for a period of time after that.
So when I talk about accelerating renewal costs we need that to cover the dilution effect.
We also need it to cover the retained cost impact.
And my comments in the commentary contemplated that.
So when I talk about maintaining our glide path in '13 and in '14 it's in the context of both the earnings dilution and in the context of our need to cover the retained costs.
Okay.
And then one final question the trend in your sales in Asia Pacific.
So it looks -- I don't know what's been restated.
I don't know if my model is up-to-date right now given everything you reported this morning.
But it sort of looks like on a core basis Asia Pacific sales declined in Q1 on top of the decline last year.
And I guess in the context what exactly do you mean by resetting the route-to-market model in China? And what's going on in the Fine Writing business there? And how does it all tie in to the weakness we're seeing in Asia Pac? Yes so let me address that.
So we continue to have challenges in Australia and New Zealand which for us is a big part of Asia Pacific.
We didn't really call that out but I'll share that with you.
Bill and his team were in Melbourne this week to sort through that so we'll talk next week when he gets back and we'll figure out what we need to do to get that performance strengthened.
It's been a prolonged issue.
And we're all -- we all need to address that now.
That's probably 20% 30% of the issue in Asia.
The other piece of it though is the choice we're making to reset the Fine Writing route-to-market in China.
There's a piece of that that has to do with us getting more balanced in the way we manage our inventories between distributors and retailer -- and the retail environment.
And we made the choice in Q4 when Bill picked up responsibility for the business to change the way we move product through our business model and through the distributors to the retailers.
And that's impacted our growth in China on Fine Writing in the first quarter.
Fine Writing in China despite last year's sellout being up 32% the first quarter was down double digits versus prior year in China.
And that was big and that's certainly big enough to have more than the Australia and New Zealand impact.
And we expect that will continue to play forward into Q2.
The other piece of the puzzle though is that as the Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities in China develop and department stores open in those cities like the ones that had opened in Tier 1 cities we need to change our route-to-market in those cities because what we've had up until now is a 2-tiered distribution model effectively a model where you push inventory out in a lot of small outlets that carry your products in those cities.
As those cities get wealthier and as development moves from the coastline in we need to apply the same model that we've got in the Tier 1 cities to those cities which means pulling back on the multilevel distribution model and establishing a distributor retail to department store model.
And that's what we're on and about doing which obviously has an impact on sell-in and inventories.
And we want to set the stage for the future in China through both actions.
We have some rebalancing to do on inventory in the environment we're in in the Tier 1 cities and we have a job to do to reset our route-to-market in the Tier 2 cities.
And those 2 things Australia and New Zealand and that activity are the most meaningful contributors in APAC.
And I suspect we'll continue to experience that.
The other thing I'd say is more of a strategic comment.
Our priority is in Latin America.
We've said when we talked about extending our borders that we are going to focus first on Latin America and next on Asia.
So I use the language first South then East.
And so you see that playing out in our growth rates in Latin America in the first quarter.
If you look at the core sales growth in the first quarter I think you have access to this it's nearly 30% I think -- so it's a very big number.
And while I don't believe we'll sustain that rate we're going to be strong double digits up in Latin America this year across the total portfolio.
I want to get Latin America scaled first before we play hard for Asia.
We're doing the thinking work in Asia today.
We're taking choices like resetting the network to set the stage for the future but APAC emerging won't be the big priority this year that it will become in '14 and '15.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Rubbermaid Home this is the first time I can remember when it actually grew.
Is that the beginning of a trend? And I know that business is surprisingly related to housing starts and the robust housing economy.
So do you think those trends should continue? Then I have a couple follow-ups.
Yes I mean we're pleased obviously.
The biggest piece of news is probably the one that won't get a lot of coverage in our results which is Home growing nearly 4%.
So Jeff Hohler and his whole team should feel terrific about that and all the folks in development supporting that agenda.
What's changed there is Rubbermaid Consumer.
We've gone through the process of assessing what the real drivers of growth can be in that business and which we weren't doing enough to put our brands and our products particularly in food and beverage in front of the consumer interrupting the shopping experience or the brand experience around those key holidays where food is central to.
So Super Bowl Easter.
We look forward to July 4 and then back-to-school where the pantry changes over and then certainly around Thanksgiving.
These are all wonderful moments for us to be pushing our product to the floor out of the aisle and interrupting the shopping experience with our Rubbermaid Consumer food storage and beverage products.
And so you see that coming to life in the first quarter with the first-ever Super Bowl program.
We call these 5 merchandising windows the furious 5 and there was only 1 last year which was Thanksgiving.
And so we've retooled how we go to market in the U.S.
in Rubbermaid to focus on really giving our customers shoppers a brand experience in store around those events and it really worked in Q1.
So we're very pleased about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does that continue do you think? Well I think it should if we can replicate it.
Because we didn't decide to do it until pretty late in last year.
Mark and the team in partnership with Jeff made the judgment around October to try to play for this idea.
And so we didn't have as broad a set of customer participation in the Super Bowl event as I think we will next year.
And I think this will strengthen as we go forward the depth of participation.
So I'm really bullish about that on Rubbermaid.
I think there's more opportunity within Jeff's portfolio because we sort of got different businesses performing in different ways.
And so obviously the biggest one to focus on was the biggest business which is Rubbermaid Consumer brand.
The other thing we've got going on is you see some stabilization in our blinds business.
So you heard Doug in his comments say that versus last year our Dcor business was only down 1.5 -- what did you say low single digits? That business is up.
Well there you go up 1.5%.
So that's a big turnaround in terms of the absence of a negative.
Now do I think we sustain it there? I don't know.
That one is one that's going to be a little bit more volatile.
We have to see what happens with J.C.
Penney.
They're headed in -- they obviously are making lots of different changes right now.
Some of which we think are positive for us.
Some of which are uncertain for us.
But that certainly will not be the huge negative that it was last year.
So that bodes well.
And we've got to work hard on Goody and on Calphalon to make them growth contributors and do it without spending big money.
These are Win Where We Are businesses.
So that means they don't get the first call on resources.
You have to think about -- I've said this before Win Where We Are means win differently.
An example of winning differently is doing what we did on Rubbermaid Consumer this year with the furious 5.
And so we need to really unpack these businesses break them down to their core and build them back up in a way that allows them to grow without big investment.
And that's what we're doing.
We kind of hope that we're able to sustain this level of performance.
I think we'll be certainly stronger than we were a year ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the gross margins trajectory I think you always said that we were kind of in a pricing lull in the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
So is pricing going to start to come through? And should we see that sort of translate into some gross margin growth? I'll give you some personal reflections on my leadership and then I'll let Doug answer the question on pricing.
I think I made a mistake last year by aiming off on pricing in the late September early October window as commodities started breaking.
I should have been stronger from a leadership perspective and held what were pricing actions that we had planned I should have held those pricing actions in place.
And we've paid the price from a gross margin perspective in Q4 and to a lesser degree Q1.
And we have taken pricing starting late Q1 that will start to contribute to the business going forward.
But that one's on me.
I should have not flinched as the commodities broke and tried to encourage our CEO to sell those things all the way through because it hurt us.
Bill what I would say on the margin is you're right.
I think the -- and as Mike says we're beginning to take price in some areas and in some parts of our portfolio in some parts of our world.
And you'll see that begin to come through.
But what you'll really see I think and you will continue to see gross margin expansion from us and it will increase through the year.
And it's going to be driven by productivity in addition to pricing.
And Meri as you know joined us in December and she's been working through plans and finding some early opportunities to accelerate some productivity wins.
And we're also recall executing on our 5 Ways to $50m of productivity savings some of which hits gross margin in the second and part of which hits this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
So if you also look at the Tools business big margin contraction and way below our model and I think what The Street was looking for.
I mean did that have to do with pricing or timing or kind of what drove that? And does that continue also? Yes.
So there's a couple of things.
When you look at normalized operating margin you have 2 big launches in Hilmor and Irwin Dupla in Latin America but that's one of those businesses where we should particularly on the Irwin brand we should have priced in September and we aimed off.
And so that was a -- that turns out to have been a mistake.
It recovers steadily through the year.
So you have the combination of sales force you have the investments you have the combination of 2 launches in Q1 up against weaker gross margins than we would like.
They will recover certainly more substantially in the second half of the year than in Q2 but we just didn't have pricing against inflation the way we should have.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then just one last sort of housekeeping item more like a modeling question but it seems that just addition by subtraction you kind of get to 20 basis points of EBIT margin expansion.
So does that mean like the base business x divestitures kind of would've been flat from an operating margin perspective? Yes we haven't -- I'm going to defer on giving you the specific answer to that Bill but Nancy will follow up with you and try to give you the answer.
I think that x SAP we probably still would have been up or near flat.
I think up slightly though.
And what happens with our operating income margin this year is going to be a function of what we spend.
I mean that's basically how the story is going to play out.
Because we'll get gross margin back on track.
In fact gross margin I'm sure will be up versus prior year.
We've said we want that to happen every year.
And our outlook is for that to happen again this year.
So our income margin is going to be a function of spending more than anything else and I think that would have been true had we held the disc ops businesses in the mix or not.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And would that spending be a lot more media-related now? I mean like historically -- or not historically but last year was much more sort of sales force and capability driven it looks like.
When I talk about -- we may do a little bit more sales force work and we will certainly invest in capabilities like consumer marketing insight and we need stronger -- we just recruited an excellent category management thought leader from the industry to lead the development of our category management capabilities with customers and we're investing in shopper marketing capabilities.
But when I talk about investments going forward I'm largely talking about brand support.
And we got to figure out a way to break apart strategic SG&amp;A for you because -- which is reasonably easy for us to do.
I just don't want to confuse people at this point.
But strategic SG&amp;A is where our people costs are from marketing and R&amp;D and as we go down on people cost you're going to look at that and you're going to say "Wait a minute you're not spending the reality for brand support standpoint A&amp;P standpoint " and we are.
Now your question was is it advertising? No I think it won't look as a-driven as you guys probably are used to if you're covering fast food and consumer goods.
So a lot of e-based communication a lot of PR-based communication a lot of in-store communication but not print and television.
The exception to that probably is our Writing business where I think that business responds to that type of investment.
So it's horses for courses I think you'll see an innovation and a brand communication-led change but not through typical broad reach advertising vehicles that you would expect a fast moving consumer goods business to use the exception being Writing.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So on writing instruments can you talk a bit about what's occurring here from a category growth perspective? And this is separate from any of the worry over merger activity.
I'm just wondering if the shift to notebooks mobile devices et cetera technology is having incremental pressure here on category growth and given you feel good about your own internal plans I was also hoping for a little more clarity on just top line growth for the business as we look at the balance of the year as you got some internal plans to offset any of those external issues.
Yes.
So look I think the first quarter the industry as a whole sort of had laid out some numbers.
I see slightly better numbers than what I see some of our competitors having thrown out in terms of category performance but the first quarter performance of the category in the U.S.
was not positive.
And I think that's in part due to our absence of marketing support connected to the InkJoy launch from prior year.
So we were on television in January we were doing big communication in that window.
So I'm sure the absence of that contributes to some of the softness in the channel given the size of our business.
Remember we're a 40 share of the total writing market in the U.S.
So if we're not supporting the category the category probably is not going to grow as actively as it would otherwise grow.
It was not the right window for us to spend our money in Q1 for the reasons I've stated before because our innovation and our money should support the big consumption drive windows.
So we want to piggyback our investment when the category is relevant and hot for consumers which obviously is back-to-school.
And I think it can be extended to the shoulders of the season further but we weren't spending in that window.
So we are part of the issue.
I think there's channel shifting also going on here as some folks have talked about.
I do not think it has anything to do with technology though.
There's no linkage that I can find believe me.
That's the question do we believe technology is superseding writing? We don't see that.
And so I think it's more about activities and some channel shifting that's happening between the office superstore channel in the U.S.
and other channels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you give us some perspective on the housing recovery here in the U.S.? How much of a tailwind do you think it gives to your business this year and more importantly as you look out to 2014? And what are you assuming in your guidance for 2013 in that perspective? Dara we do watch that and we see there are pockets of good news around housing and some areas where housing still is lagging.
And as that picks up it certainly can't hurt our business but we're not necessarily directly correlated with it.
A nice housing boom would be great for us but where we're starting from is still so low relative to where we went off the cliff in housing that we think it's going to take a little while before that has a meaningful impact on our business.
But we like it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last housekeeping.
Did you give the tax rate for the full year you're expecting now? Here's what I do on the tax rate for the full year.
We've given a range of 25% to 26% and I think somewhere within that range you can then take that $8 million or so benefit into your numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I apologize; I jumped in a little late.
Did you guys talk about the J.C.
Penney business and what's going on there and just any kind of impact? I know you're anniversary-ing the impact last year and I think last quarter was a little bit more nebulous.
Clearly by looking at the segment results it looks like things are better if I infer correctly.
So just first question just if you can kind of give a little bit of an update there.
Yes so I think there's still uncertainty in how JCP is going to -- how things are going to evolve with J.C.
Penney.
I ask this question pretty much every week of the team that's calling on them and the headlines there is they're obviously in transition.
You've seen their new advertising the last couple of days with new logo.
And there -- as best we can tell they're slowing down their rate of store conversions to the new home centers.
But at the same time they're strengthening their investment in merchandising.
And so they're going back to sort of the older -- the old model where prices go up but businesses are sold on a relatively deep discount.
It appears that that's the direction they're heading.
I don't think -- I think all the changes going on there are going to be a net positive for us.
I think we lose a little bit of opportunity connected to Culinary if they don't roll out their revised store-in-store model as aggressively as they were planning.
That's sort of opportunity lost.
I think Culinary is going to have an excellent year at JCP this year.
And then on blinds I think that's a business that will respond well to the new merchandising approach they're taking.
However because it's a custom blinds business it needs the associate in the store to help sell the product.
And I'm concerned that they've gone deep on their associate cuts and that may influence the rate of recovery despite the change in merchandising.
Custom blinds require somebody to help a consumer through the experience and I worry a little bit about JCP's choice to go deep under the prior regime to go deep on cutting back on those associates which may not -- may cause our business not to recover as fast as we -- you might hope with the new merchandising strategy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
I guess the second question I have was just thinking about your -- I hope I got the dates right but your 2 years on the job here and obviously we know that there is this war chest of cost savings and that should be helped by -- even by the proceeds of the disposal down the road.
If you could think about the cost of doing business like which categories you're seeing that your expectations over the last 2 years have kind of changed that there will be a lot more reinvestment into growing those businesses especially in emerging markets down the road.
So I was wondering if you could provide a little bit of context to how you're thinking about that.
Look I think the longer I've been here the more excited I get about the possibilities for our business.
We have a lot of heavy lifting to do.
We've had a lot of heavy lifting to do over the last 18 20 months and we have probably another year a year and a bit of work of like sort to get the company repositioned completely to be able to drive accelerated performance.
So I think I would expect our work plans to look very similar and our conversations with you to be very similar as we work through what's a serious amount of cost changes that we're driving.
When I look at the businesses I come back to the portfolio roll choices we made with the Growth Game Plan and I believe they are right.
So Commercial Products Tools and Writing is our #1 priority.
Home Solutions is the fourth pillar with an opportunity for more coherence within that portfolio but as a -- and an opportunity to grow but to grow differently than it historically has so with less investment.
Baby of like kind.
Baby is quickly becoming another Win Where We Are business as opposed to an incubate business.
It's about winning differently and we're proving that model out that we do not need to put big brand support behind these businesses in the traditional sense.
But with innovation and good selling systems and good insights we can drive good growth.
So my formula the algorithm hasn't really changed at this point.
We're just beginning to broaden our footprint into the emerging markets and you see the acceleration in Latin America as evidence of that.
And we have a lot more to learn about how to grow and build brands there through the experiences we will have over the next 6 12 months.
And that learning may influence some of the choices we make with respect to where to invest in what vehicles whether it's advertising or whether it's in-store or whether it's e-based or in what businesses.
So I think here we are 20 months in I don't -- I'm not looking at this any differently than I was at the beginning other than having greater clarity in the sense of certainty around -- and a sense of confidence around our ability to do what we said we were going to do.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And here's just a last question and hopefully I'm not putting quantification over qualification but when you think about the guidance now now you're saying 7% to 10% EPS growth for this year versus the numbers when you kind of pull out the discontinued businesses.
And I know at CAGNY you talked about the middle of next year falling into that acceleration phase which I think by definition is 6% to 9% EPS.
So are you saying that acceleration is coming earlier or am I just putting the numbers ahead of the actual qualifiers behind it? No we're not saying the acceleration is coming early.
We have a lot of work to do to get the brand budgets to where they need to be.
We made a determination that we want to get this portfolio sorted so we've got a responsibility to cover the costs associated with doing that.
And that means accelerating savings not just through renewal but in other ways through the business to do that.
So I think the way to think about our forward-looking view is that we've got a 1-year event here where we need to -- we have a responsibility to our shareholders to cover the dilution effect and the retained costs issue that creating greater clarity within our portfolio creates.
But our frame of reference for the Growth Game Plan is the same and I'd encourage you to think about it that way.
Your next question comes from the line of Leigh Ferst with Wellington Shields.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you clarify what you're saying about your leadership team? You say it's in place but you do refer to various changes.
Is it that your direct reports are in place but there's still changes in middle management? The changes I was referring to are a level below my direct reports.
And so we have a lot of changes going on Leigh.
And we have way more changes to drive over the coming year to 18 months as I was saying.
We put the leadership structure in place; we're now driving an organization through and into action in the company.
When we talk about the marketing and R&amp;D changes and say 30% of the costs are coming out that's a significant change.
And when we talk about Project Renewal accelerating Project Renewal savings that means we're going to do more cost work that involves people structures and the like.
And so while we're doing that we're strengthening capabilities.
Now my team is set my leadership team is set and I'm delighted and we're really starting to kind of gain our stride.
But there are more changes to be driven through the organization and they are substantial and that's the only way the costs come out.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you said the market conditions are right for sale and you referred to the economy can I assume that there's a good deal environment also in terms of more buyers being interested? Yes well I won't comment specifically on the deal because it's work-in-progress -- deals because they are works in progress.
But in the broader sense cheap debt lots of cash good environment to be selling things.
So -- and with the housing -- the housing starts are encouraging but they're off a very very low base relative to history.
So there's much more upside there to be had.
So for a prospective buyer that's in this business and views these assets as strategic this is an excellent time to be buying too given the macro environment and the impending inevitable economic recovery and the inevitable real housing recovery.
Because I think we're just sort of bouncing off the bottom at the moment.
I read all the headlines as you do Leigh but I don't really view them as particularly credible when I look at the rate of new housing starts versus the historical numbers.
They're way below still.
LLC Research Division</strong> It'll be interesting to watch because we've achieved cheap debt and lots of cash for a while so it's just intriguing to see.
This concludes our question-and-answer period.
If we were unable to get to your question please call the Investor Relations team at (770) 418-7075.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for any concluding remarks.
I would just conclude by saying our confidence has been strengthened by the response of our employees to what is an incredible change agenda.
They're embracing the changes we're making better than I expected and along with what is good performance I believe this gives us permission to change further and continue to press hard for the full opportunity to unlock our potential as a larger faster-growing more-global more-profitable company.
So I appreciate all the questions and the feedback and I look forward to talking to you at our next opportunity.
Thank you.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (855) 859-2056 with an access code of 43070102 starting 2 hours following the end of today's call.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Doug Martin Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Martin you may begin.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone and thanks for calling in.
Nancy isn't joining us this morning but she will be available next week.
And of course you all know Alisha and she's available after the call.
On the call with me today is Mike Polk Newell Rubbermaid's President and CEO.
Before we get started I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions.
Actual results or outcomes could differ materially from management's expectations and plans.
We caution you to consider the important risk factors described in our press release and in our various SEC filings.
Please note that any non-GAAP financial measures including but not limited to core sales normalized operating margins and normalized earnings per share are provided because management believes that they provide insights which enable investors to better understand and analyze our ongoing results.
A reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings release and as part of the slide deck that's available on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Thank you Doug.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
We have 2 objectives today.
First Doug and I will review our second quarter results and update you on the progress we're making driving the Growth Game Plan into action.
And second I'll provide some perspective on the balance of 2013 and the factors that could influence delivery.
This morning we reported a good set of Q2 results that represent our eighth consecutive quarter of consistent delivery.
Core sales grew 4.5% 2.5% when adjusted for the 2012 European SAP-related timing shift from Q2 to Q1.
Normalized operating income margin increased 100 basis points driven by increased productivity and a significant reduction in fixed SG&amp;A as a result of Project Renewal partially offset by increased brand support.
We delivered solid operating cash flow of $63 million a normalized earnings per share of $0.50 up 11.1% versus prior year and $0.01 ahead of consensus.
Through the first 6 months core sales increased 2.5% in line with expectations.
Normalized operating income margin expanded 40 basis points.
Normalized EPS increased to $0.85 up 10.4% versus prior year.
And we've delivered solid operating cash flow which has enabled us to invest back into the business while also returning value to shareholders increasing dividends and share repurchases by 70% or nearly $66 million versus prior year.
At the same time as driving delivery we've been very busy continuing to drive the Growth Game Plan into action.
During the first half we deployed our new operating model reorganizing the company around its 2 core activity systems: development and delivery; supported by 3 business partnering functions: legal HR and finance; and 4 winning capabilities: in design marketing and insights supply chain and customer development; all in service to driving accelerated performance in our 5 operating segments: Commercial Products Tools Writing Home Solutions and Baby &amp; Parenting.
In the process of doing this we restructured marketing and R&amp;D creating a larger independent consumer marketing organization investing significantly more money in insights that will drive bigger and better innovation and brand growth plans while also committing to transform Newell into a design-driven company breaking ground on a new state-of-the-art design center where all of Newell's design activity will be located while also recruiting a new global leader of e-commerce who will collaborate with both development and delivery to accelerate progress in what we believe to be our -- one of our biggest growth opportunities.
In the first half we also rolled out our new global supply chain organization establishing a one Newell procurement function in a common set of supply chain metrics and goals as we strengthen our productivity funnel and establish a focused agenda to reduce our working capital.
In the midst of these changes we simultaneously launched several new innovative products across our business segments and regions including a new Graco travel system called Graco Modes 3 strollers in 1 with 10 riding options from infant to toddler; a new line of Aprica ultralightweight strollers called AirRia already the best-selling stroller in Japan; and a new line of Paper Mate mechanical pencils and premium Sharpie markers called Sharpie Neon with both launches off to a very fast start; and a new innovation on Irwin in Brazil called Dupla the first ever double-sided hacksaw blade.
We also set the stage for 4 big third quarter initiatives: the launch of Rubbermaid Commercial Products Executive Series; a new line of carts and cleaning products for luxury hotels the launch of an entirely new line of Irwin tools in Brazil where we will enter 10 new hand tool and accessory segments with over 500 Irwin SKUs; the launch of a new line of Levolor wood and faux wood blinds; and the sell-in of what should be in partnership with our retailers one of our strongest back-to-school merchandising dry periods ever with significantly increased back-to-school display and merchandising activity set for Q3 on Writing Rubbermaid LunchBlox and Goody.
All of this while implementing SAP and transitioning to a more tax-efficient dual entity business model in Brazil continuing to make progress on our European Transformation announcing our intention to sell our hardware business and last week closing on the sale of our Teach Platform business.
That's a full agenda by any standard and I think we executed well.
We exit the first half of the year with good momentum particularly on Commercial Products Baby and Home Solutions.
And our Tool segment is well positioned for a strong Q3 and Q4 and solid full year of growth on the full year following the second quarter transition in Brazil to SAP.
Writing has continued to build share in the first half with great innovation complemented by strong retailer partnerships in merchandising.
And Writing has absorbed the impact of tough North American office superstore conditions and our transition to a more consumption-focused distribution approach in China on Fine Writing.
Our savings programs are right on track and we're set to deliver the full year targets and our productivity programs are accelerating enabled by our new global supply chain organization.
Our first half results in the developed world were solid with good core sale growth in the U.S.
of 3% while EMEA core sales growth declined just 2.2% slightly better in our recent trends.
In our priority emerging markets in Latin America first half core sales growth accelerated to nearly 19% as a result of our investment activity terrific outcome.
Clearly there's much to be pleased with and we're proud of our first half.
With that let me hand the call over to Doug to go through a more detailed review of results and then I'll return to provide some perspective on the balance of the year.
Thanks Mike.
Newell reported net sales for the quarter of $1.47 billion a 3.5% increase over the prior year.
Core sales which exclude the impact of unfavorable foreign currency increased 4.5%.
When adjusted for the $28 million impact of the 2012 EMEA SAP pull forward from Q2 to Q1 of last year second quarter core sales grew 2.5%.
Gross margin was 39.5% a 70 basis point year-over-year increase as strong productivity was partially offset by inflation and pricing.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $363.2 million or 24.6% of sales a decline in overall spend of 30 basis points.
Renewal savings enabled us to fund an additional $8 million in strategic advertising and promotion investment behind Tools and Commercial Products in addition to the annualization of sales force investments last year that are yielding growth dividends in Latin America and on Rubbermaid Commercial in North America.
Our plans call for further acceleration of strategic spend behind our brands in the back half of 2013.
Reported second quarter operating margin was 12.6% compared with 12.4% in the prior year.
On a normalized basis Q2 operating margin was 14.9% a 100 basis point improvement from the prior year.
Interest expense was $15 million down about $6 million compared with 2012 due to the work we did last year to strengthen our balance sheet and improve our interest position.
The normalized tax rate was 26.6% up slightly from the prior year.
Other expense this quarter reflects transactional FX losses primarily due to the strengthening dollar against the yen Canadian dollar and Australian dollar.
Second quarter reported earnings per share were $0.37 compared with $0.38 in the prior period.
Normalized earnings per share which exclude restructuring and restructuring-related costs and discontinued operations were $0.50 an 11.1% increase from a year ago.
The increase is attributable to improved operating results and a somewhat easier comp against Q2 results last year due to the SAP pull forward.
We generated operating cash of $63.3 million during the quarter.
This compares with $103.1 million in the prior year.
The decrease is primarily related to changes in working capital.
Accounts receivable days increased due to timing associated with the Q2 ramp-up of shipments post the SAP implementation in Brazil stronger year-over-year sales in the back half of the quarter and a broader set of customers qualifying for back-to-school extended dating.
The year-over-year increase in inventory relates primarily to Q3 product launch builds for Tools in Brazil and promotions in Home Solutions.
Accounts payable days also increased meaningfully in the quarter versus the prior year so that overall cash conversion days improved.
We expect that the accounts receivable and inventory shifts will reverse in the third quarter and have a clear line of sight to our working capital and operating cash goals for the year.
We also returned $82.2 million to shareholders during the quarter including $43.6 million in dividends and $38.6 million for the repurchase of 1.5 million shares.
Program to date the company has repurchased 11.2 million shares at an average price of $18.81 for a total of $210 million.
This leaves us with $90 million on the current authorization.
Turning now to a little more detail on the segments.
As I mentioned earlier the SAP go-live in EMEA in Q2 of last year impacts year-over-year comparisons for both Q1 and Q2 of this year.
So for all businesses with operations in EMEA I will be discussing reported sales growth core sales growth and core sales growth adjusted for the SAP-related timing shifts in that order to avoid confusion.
Reported net sales in our Commercial Products segment were -- grew 7.1% core sales rose 7.6% and core sales adjusted for last year's SAP-related timing shifts grew 6.5%.
The improvement was driven by strong Commercial Products sales in North America with healthy order rates across most products and customers.
Operating margin for this segment was 10.8% down 30 basis points due to mix inflation and sales force investments in North America and Latin America partially offset by structural cost reductions.
The Tools segment delivered reported sales decline of 2.2%.
Core sales declined 1.3% and core sales adjusted for last year's SAP-related timing shifts were negative 5%.
Our core sales in Brazil this quarter were negatively impacted by the rollout of SAP on April 1.
While not material to total Newell results they are meaningful to our Tools segment as approximately $5 million of Tools net sales in Brazil were pulled forward in the second quarter of this year into the first.
Given the impact of both EMEA and Brazil SAP on Tools looking at Tools first half core sales growth is the best indicator of underlying performance because the anomalies aren't eliminated.
First half core sales growth in Tools was essentially flat against tough year-ago comparisons of nearly 10% growth and sluggishness related to the industrial band saw portion of this segment.
Normalized operating margin in the Tools segment was 9.2% down versus last year's 15.1%.
Gross margin was impacted by lower sales volume related in large part to the SAP timing in Brazil unfavorable mix related to the slowdown in industrial products and inflation.
In addition we've increased investment in the Irwin Dupla hacksaw blade innovation in Latin America and the Hilmor brand launch in the HVAC channel in North America.
In our Writing segment second quarter reported sales grew 4.1% core sales increased 5% and core sales adjusted for last year's SAP-related timing shifts increased 1.5%.
In quarter 2 strong growth in Latin America and very good sell-in to support back-to-school merchandising in both Europe and North America have more than compensated for weaknesses in the office superstore channel and the negative impact of the reset of our distributor model for Fine Writing in China.
Second quarter normalized operating margin in the Writing segment was a very strong 25.9% up 290 basis points due to improved mix structural SG&amp;A reductions and the weighting of marketing investment towards the third and fourth quarter as compared to last year.
Our Baby segment delivered another very strong quarter with reported sales growth of 7.6% and core sales growth of 11.3%.
Core sales growth adjusted for last year's SAP-related timing shift was 9.8%.
The formula for success in Baby continues to be winning innovation and strengthened partnership with our retail customers.
We generated good growth across our North American customer base as a result of an expanded retail presence successful new innovation and improved POS.
Aprica in Japan also grew mid-single digits driven by increased promotional activity and our success with new products at retail.
Baby's Q2 normalized operating margin was 12.1% up 160 basis points to last year largely the benefit of renewal cost savings and increased sales.
The Home Solutions segment turned in its second quarter of positive sales results behind good execution in the U.S.
on Rubbermaid Consumer's Furious 5 merchandising for Memorial Day and robust growth from Calphalon driven by distribution gains.
Home Solutions reported sales growth was 2% and core sales growth was 2.3%.
Home Solutions normalized operating margin was 13.5% a 260 basis point improvement versus the prior year reflecting an improved operating performance increased sales the benefit of Project Renewal savings and productivity.
Looking at Q2 sales by geography.
North America core sales grew 2.7% driven by strong performances in Commercial Products Baby &amp; Parenting and Home Solutions.
U.S.
business grew 3.1% ahead of overall market growth implying continued share gains.
In EMEA core sales adjusted for last year's SAP-related timing shifts declined 1% which is slightly ahead of our more recent 3% rate of decline.
While we're pleased with the stabilization in the quarter we believe the ongoing macroeconomic challenges in Western Europe will continue to drive declines greater than those reflected in the second quarter results.
In Latin America core sales grew 9.8% despite the negative impact of this quarter's SAP-related timing shift in Brazil.
First half core sales growth of 19% is more predictive of our expectations going forward given strong Tools and Writing plans in the second half of the year.
In Asia Pacific core sales grew 0.7%.
Continued good growth from Aprica and Fine Writing in Japan was offset by the previously discussed step-back in Fine Writing in China.
Reported sales contracted in the period due to the weakening of the yen and the Australian dollar.
Our developed world core sales growth adjusted for SAP was a little more than 2% driven by a solid U.S.
growth rate of 3.1%.
Our emerging markets business grew mid-single digits or high-single digits if adjusted for the impact of SAP in Brazil.
The accelerating underlying trends in Latin America were partially offset by declines in China as a result of the planned reset of our route-to-market model in China on Fine Writing.
Switching now to our cost programs.
We continue to make good progress on Project Renewal indirect spend and overall spend control.
Through the end of Q2 we are on plan and have realized over $100 million in cumulative savings for Renewal and we remain committed to investing the majority of the Renewal savings back in to strategic SG&amp;A such as selling resources advertising and promotion product development consumer research and capability building to help drive core sales in our priority businesses and markets.
We intend to reinvest more heavily in the back half of the year to drive accelerated performance and position ourselves for sustainable growth in 2014.
In summary we're pleased with our Q2 results and our continued progress in driving the Growth Game Plan into action.
I'll now turn it back over to Mike for some additional comments.
Thanks Doug.
So let's now turn to our 2013 outlook.
As communicated in the press release we've reaffirmed our full year guidance on core sales growth normalized operating income margin and operating cash flow while raising the lower end of our normalized EPS guidance range by $0.02.
Our revised full year guidance is: core sales growth of 2% to 4%; normalized operating income margin expansion of up to 20 basis points; normalized EPS of $1.80 to $1.84 which represents growth of 8% to 10% above our 2012 normalized EPS of $1.67; and operating cash flow in the range of $575 million to $625 million.
Our full year guidance assumes sustained second half momentum in Commercial Products Baby and Home Solutions.
Very good second half growth on Tools with solid full year growth as a result of our strong second half growth initiatives in Latin America and North America.
And excellent sellout in share growth in Writing but with core sales growth roughly in line with the first half performance as retailer inventories in the office superstore channel rebalanced to sell-through.
There are 3 key factors that can influence where in the 2013 full year guidance range we fall.
The first factor is the timing of the Office Depot-OfficeMax merger.
Our 2013 full year guidance assumes we do not replicate last year's September back-to-school replenishment program in advance of the Office Depot and OfficeMax merger and that the current softness in the broader office superstore channel continues through the balance of the year.
The Depo-Max merger will result in a significant distribution network and retail footprint consolidation at that customer.
That consolidation will result in a onetime trade inventory reduction yielding a significant negative revenue impact to Newell.
Our 2013 full year guidance assumes that event occurs over some period of time in 2014 and there is no impact in 2013.
While unlikely if the timing of that consolidation were to accelerate into Q4 it could disrupt our 2013 delivery.
The second factor that could influence where in the guidance range we fall is the planned growth acceleration of our Tools business in the second half.
Our 2013 guidance assumes a strong second half growth profile on Tools following an essentially flat first half performance as a result of the Brazil businesses in transition to SAP and some sluggishness in the industrial portion of our Tools portfolio.
We are well positioned to deliver the assumed growth acceleration.
We will benefit from both the second half growth associated with first half launches on Hilmor in North America and Irwin Dupla in Brazil and the significant expansion of the Irwin tool belts in Brazil with our launch of over 500 new Irwin SKUs into 10 new tool and accessory segments at over 100 distributors and customers.
Additionally all of this new innovation is being supported by strong brand investment in Q3 and Q4 with new advertising on Irwin slated to go on air in September.
So we're quite comfortable we will deliver a very good growth in the second half on Tools and solid growth in the full year.
The third factor that could influence where in the range we fall is the delivery of renewal savings and other margin-enhancing actions that enable increased brand investment in the second half of 2013.
Our 2013 guidance assumes increased brand support in the second half driven by Project Renewal savings strengthened productivity versus the first half and positive price realization to gross margin.
While our progress on positive price realization has been mixed given market competitiveness in certain categories we're right on track to deliver the Project Renewal savings objectives and we will build on very good second quarter productivity results with strengthened second half performance.
We expect to be able to comfortably step up brand investment in the second half of 2013 as part of our drive to deliver accelerated growth.
We continue to believe the middle of our revised full year guidance range is the best estimate for our 2013 delivery.
Now as you know we do not provide quarterly guidance.
However I would like to point out a few things.
Given the timing of innovation and our plan to support back-to-school and National Tradesmen Day on Irwin with breakthrough levels of brand support we will likely experience some operating income margin contraction in the third quarter.
That said we continue to expect to deliver full year normalized EPS and normalized operating income margin expansion in the middle of the revised guidance range.
We also continue to expect as communicated on our first quarter earnings call that Q3 and Q4 normalized EPS will be roughly in line with each other.
Let me close by saying we're 8 quarters into a more consistent cadence of delivery.
We've achieved this with a higher level of change than most companies experience and I think my team has done an outstanding job of simultaneously driving delivery while driving change.
We're strengthening the basic activity systems critical to our business success establishing a true operating company that unlocks the potential of our $6 billion business rather than simply our individual brands or operating units.
This has required increased focus in funding new ideas in leadership and a best-in-class ambition for a core set of capabilities in design marketing and insight supply chain and customer development.
While consistently making our numbers is job #1 and is critical to building your confidence in us it's the potential of all this change of our new operating model and the release of trapped resources in their pivot to growth that gets me far more excited.
In fact there is a much bigger value creation story to be delivered than what we've delivered so far.
It'll play out over multiple quarters and I believe we're firmly on track to both strengthen the business and create that upside.
The commercial proof of this potential is best represented by the last 1.5 years on Baby &amp; Parenting our Incubate For Growth business that was admittedly quite broken when we started to work on it.
Kristy Juster and her team piloted the new model we're now more broadly deploying moving quickly to increase resources in customer development and category management in our priority markets the U.S.
and Japan significantly strengthening innovation and commercialization investing early in growing channels like e-commerce and enabling investment through a much greater discipline on cost.
The Baby story has played out over the last 6 quarters with strong hard number results compound growth rates on core sales in the high-single digits with more to come and over 500 basis points of operating income margin expansion.
But perhaps most importantly these numbers were delivered with all stakeholders whether supply partners or customers investing deeper in our business relationships and embracing what the new Newell can bring.
In fact our largest Baby customer named Newell Global Vendor of the Year in 2012 across their entire company for our commitment to collaborative growth in the Baby category and has in 2013 taken Sharpie Paper Mate and Expo into their back-to-school merchandising program something they've never done before.
Market share wins transformed P&amp;L metrics tremendous value creation and increased reputational capital for our company that's converted to more business on an adjacent category.
This is a healthier more sustainable growth strategy for Newell.
This is the new operating model in action and these are the results that are possible.
We're at that pivot where much of the disruptive change is just behind us.
While there's some more to come the fog of change is clearing and we can now get focused on unlocking our upside using all of our new resources to stretch for strengthened performance.
The organization is beginning to see and feel the potential of our new operating model and there's a positive energy building about the new company we are creating.
That's the power of the Growth Game Plan.
I'm proud of the progress but more importantly I'm excited by our possibilities.
With that let's open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So in looking at Brazil you've obviously got a pretty aggressive plan there lots of new product launches what have you.
Most companies are talking about economic weakness there.
So can you talk about sort of building the business not exactly up from scratch but given the smaller scale is that what protects your growth plan there despite the fact that the economy is obviously softening there? Yes if you follow the GDP growth you would -- across Latin America you probably would not expect to deliver the kind of growth rates we've delivered in the first half.
Our core growth is up about 19%.
It's all about where we start from and we've got a pretty focused portfolio in Brazil that can participate in what will be over time a significant investment in infrastructure build-out.
And so we're playing a long game in Brazil.
It's not about this quarter or last quarter's GDP growth.
We've got to take that perspective.
The businesses we'll play into Brazil with are all on trend.
And having come from the -- from companies that have big emerging market footprints you have to be prepared to accept the more -- the increased volatility in the macros if you're committed to building your business and committed to participating in what is obviously a very strong long-term macro story.
So you have to accept the short-term volatility for the long-term gain and that's what we're doing.
Again our upside is clear.
We have a line of sight to it.
And we don't suffer the downturns that others do given the fact that our footprint is not yet as big as what others have.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just sort of one quick follow-up on that.
In terms of looking at the industrial business band saw blades what have you what exactly is the change that's driving some of the weakness in demand there? Is that again just sort of a global macro issue? Yes look our business is North American and Asian based.
And so if we look at China's PMIs 47.7 11-month low those are the things -- and look at the commentary around its steel shipbuilding auto these are industries that our business pivots on now.
The thing to recognize is that our band saw business is less than 20% of our total Tools portfolio.
So the industrial portion of our portfolio is suffering with what is pretty sluggish macros on industrial production across the world.
But this too will pass and we have good innovation plans in that portion of our Tools business and we have a very very strong differentiated selling systems particularly in North America that we will continue to leverage.
Our next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First my question was on pricing.
I was surprised to hear it called out as negative in the commentary.
So I thought last quarter your comments were that by the end of Q1 and into Q2 you kind of had the pricing you needed so I would have thought it was -- would have been positive this quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about that? Sure.
In some of our businesses and we don't talk about the underlying volume underlying price growth by segment and quite frankly we are not as crystal clear as some others are on that for the total company but net pricing was a down a little bit in Q2 -- invoice pricing sorry.
List price were up but customer programming was higher in a couple of specific categories.
In our resin-based businesses and in our Tools business quite frankly some of our competitors went more aggressive on pricing and merchandising than we are planning.
We have to be principled on pricing so we're taking -- we've taken invoice prices up a number of categories in Q2 and we will do more invoice pricing so list price increases in Q3.
But the principle that drives our pricing choices is relative competitiveness to our -- in our markets.
And we're not going to compromise on price points our strategic price points if in fact our competition doesn't follow.
And so we've got to manage that.
We're optimistic in the back half of the year that we will see price realization.
The question is can we count on as much as we'd like? And it's something we'll have to watch.
We'll let our pricing principles drive the choices.
The variable that it reflects will be customer programming not list price and we'll maintain competitiveness.
We have enough flexibility in the way we can phase Project Renewal savings and we have strengthening momentum and productivity as a result of the rollout of our global supply chain organization such that we can now overcome any potential issues we might face there.
But I wanted to be transparent with that because we had hoped we might be able to capture more price in Q2 than we were able to and it's something we've got to be very attentive to going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And from what you can tell and particularly in Tools is it competitors being more aggressive in response to how different things are for Irwin and Lenox today than they were 2 3 years ago? They're finally maybe catching on to some of the changes at Newell.
Well look I mean I think -- I hesitate to comment on why some of our competitors are doing what they're doing.
I will say that we are going to try to drive our growth strategically through innovation through brand investment and through the right level of customer programming to drive trial and repeat on our businesses.
So we'll have to watch that.
In any given quarter though we may have to flex in or out on pricing to maintain competitiveness and of course in key dry periods we'll do that.
We've seen very very good growth on this business over the last 4 years.
Last year as Doug mentioned double-digit core sales growth in the first half of this year and some of our competitors haven't performed as well a number of them in the first quarter quite frankly.
So the fact that some of them in Q2 have gotten more aggressive doesn't shock me and the challenge to us is to make sure we build a funnel of great ideas that enable us to not have to play that game to drive our growth.
And I think we've got that funnel playing out in the marketplace the innovation playing out in the marketplace in the second half of this year.
So I'm quite optimistic about our ability to deliver a strong growth profile in Tools in the second half of the year and solid full year growth as a result.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> What was the proceeds for the sale of the Teaching business and the Hardware business? Well the hardware business hasn't been closed yet.
That's still under way.
So no update on that.
The Teach business was sold for a relatively nominal amount and we recorded a small additional charge in the quarter relating to that.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Will there -- When will the cash proceeds for both -- for the -- there's no proceeds you said from the Teach side or very minimal but how about the proceeds from the Hardware piece? The Hardware piece again we're still in the middle of managing that transaction.
I'd like to see it in Q3 but we're not -- we don't have any specific timing.
I hope we can get the deal done pretty quickly here.
And I think if we can then we will likely see it flow to -- the cash proceeds flow in September.
There's -- we're in the midst of it and that timing could shift.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then can we just spend a little time on SAP? What percent of the business is up and running? And then can you just talk about what the sort of discrete costs are nonrecurring there that's kind of flowing through the P&amp;L and maybe what goes away when? I know it's sort of kind of a long broad question.
And then also sort of the CapEx associated with it and when the CapEx from the SAP starts to roll off? Sure.
Sure Bill.
This is Doug.
The rollout in SAP in Brazil takes -- well we're just above 80% right about 80% when we finished in May a little over a year ago and Brazil takes us up a little more.
So we're low 80% in terms of global coverage on SAP.
So all of North America all of EMEA with the exception of a couple really small markets and Brazil.
So we've got a foothold in Latin America now.
In term -- as the projects downsize so North America and EMEA were obviously the biggest pieces of the project and Brazil is a little smaller and more contained so we're capitalizing less cost internally and incurring less cost externally as we move forward.
Now the flip side of that is the big costs that we capitalize in the prior 5-year period are being amortized into the income statement.
So that over time there's a slight increase year-over-year in the cost for the next year or 2 and then there'll be a tail.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How about the expense piece though? Because I guess like a lot of the start-up costs with the SAP consultants are kind of sitting with you guys in Atlanta.
When does that start to go away? Well that's being wound down actually.
We've seen some significant reduction in that this year as we rolled off of EMEA and into Brazil so less support required for that launch.
And there's a certain -- we'll continue to wind it down but then that becomes a certain maintenance requirement across the enterprise.
Yes just to be -- Bill just to be clear about where we go from here with SAP and we want to finish the job in Latin America so next year we will -- we're setting the stage now to kind of finish up with Mexico and with Endina [ph].
So we've got more work to do on SAP in Latin America.
The complexity of Brazil drove our choice to go there first.
It was not simply an SAP implementation we went to a dual-entity structure that's more tax efficient at the same time.
That's why it took us a little bit longer to start up on SAP in Brazil than it did in -- in other startups because we needed to manage that complexity.
And that clearly had an impact on the Tools and of course sales growth in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just the follow-up on that the $50 million of indirect procurement savings.
I mean typically you need the SAP kind of up and running to really leverage those savings and also there's clearly a working capital element to SAP which obviously helps.
When do we start to see some of that stuff come through? Oh we're seeing that on the indirect side.
We've had access again to 80% of the data for now over a year across the entire organization and Mary and her team have a real focus on that area.
So we delivered as you will recall $20 million last year and are on plan to deliver the incremental $20 million to $30 million this year.
So that's all being done.
We've made some progress on some of the businesses that have been on SAP for a while from an inventory management perspective but we see that opportunity continuing to improve as we go forward particularly as the supply chain the new supply chain organization gets involved and does things in a more standardized and consolidated and leveraged fashion across the company.
So we still see opportunity there.
You saw a little blip in inventory at the end of this quarter as we were ramping up to build for some significant activity in Q3 particularly the Tools launch that Mike talked about and some promotions in Home Solutions.
And also the launch of the Levolor business which went in the first week of July.
So I mean I think -- but in -- again if we hold a mirror up to ourselves I think we have a lot of work to do in working capital.
I think one of the exciting things about the global supply chain organization and Doug's new organization and the segments work and their ability to focus on delivery is we have a real opportunity there over time to make a -- despite being a very cash generative business we haven't made as much progress on working capital as I think we would like.
And the combination of SAP global supply chain organization segments now focused on delivery and trusting their development counterparts to do the marketing and innovation work and the brand work on their behalf it creates the space to be focused on driving better practices into our business model and we should be able to make good progress here over time.
We made a commitment a few years -- maybe a year ago about making progress over 3 years of $100 million in working capital.
That's sort of tip of the iceberg for me and I think it's really important.
It will be a part of the discipline that we need to drive into action as part of the Growth Game Plan.
Yours next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions I guess to begin on Writing.
First of all could you give us an update on China post the reset that you guys had in the first quarter? And then secondly you mentioned the weakness or continued weakness in the office superstore channel.
Is that business moving to other channels? Or is that more of a category softness issue? Yes.
We're -- we saw decent growth in Writing in Q2 so I think you can make some assumptions about channel shifting going on there.
On the office superstore channel that's true.
I think there's plenty of growth to be had here.
We're committed to working with our office superstore our retail partners to build the categories in that channel as well as our commitment to do that with our other retail partners.
So we do see channel softness within Writing but we do see a fair amount of channel shifting happening between the office superstores and mass and food and drug and e-commerce.
And so there's some real interesting channel dynamics happening at the moment.
And we've been able to absorb that.
The real driver of our Writing core growth decline in the first half is actually Fine Writing in China which is the other part of your question Joe.
And we took a big step back in Q1.
We took less of a step back in Q2.
We do expect that second half will begin to stabilize the business.
I think Q3 will still be a down quarter on Fine Writing.
In Q4 we'll see some recovery in China.
But we're going to take our time and do that the right way and set up our Writing future in China with a more constructive set of practices en route to market.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just shifting gears a little bit to the broader portfolio.
Obviously you did sell Teach.
You're on the verge of selling Hardware.
Could we see more divestitures? And when might we -- when could we see some bolt-on potentially? Well look I think Joe we're focused on the -- of driving the Growth Game Plan into action.
As I said we really at the moment don't have -- we certainly have the financial capacity to go buy something if we wanted to do but I really am -- I'm more concerned about betting down the new operating model and putting it to work.
So our focus is more on the organic side of our business agenda.
We'll have cash capacity to consider bolt-ons in the future.
Obviously we've started to think about those.
But I wouldn't think that that's how we would deploy capital in the very -- in the very near term.
With respect to other disposals we want to finish the ones we've committed to execute at this point before we think about anything else in that space quite frankly.
I think we have a portfolio that we can leverage and then we can play the existing portfolio to win.
We did say in our Q1 call that we have some product line exits that we might consider as part of the EMEA transformation.
We're not at the point to talk about those.
And there are portions of our business outside of EMEA that have margin structures that are not that attractive and competitive dynamics that make them challenging.
We'll have to figure out how to address some of those either through the operations or we might consider on an ongoing basis sort of weeding those portions of the portfolio out.
We're not going to be in a position to talk about any of that probably until the end of October when we do Q3 earnings.
We've got more work to do in Europe with the works councils before we can say exactly what we're going to be able to do.
And so I'd just manage your expectations towards that window.
Whatever we choose to do it will be smaller than what we've just recently announced on the disposals.
So as you recall Teach and Hardware about $300 million business.
What we're talking about what I'm referring to in these comments is significantly less than that.
Your next question comes from the line of Taposh Bari with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you laid out the scenarios around the office supply space merger later this year.
Can you help quantify each of the scenarios and what that could mean for the Writing category? Yes.
I didn't -- purposely left that out.
We've got to actually think about all of our -- all the contingencies simply exposing a number related to what Depot and Max are going to do on their distribution network and on retails footprint consolidation without reflecting in our 2000 growth plans and things we might do to compensate for that down elevator that we'll inevitably have to face into.
I think would only play the downside out there.
And I try -- so I purposely didn't put a number in front of you.
And quite frankly we have more work to do understanding exactly what their flow of change is going to look like post-merger.
And we're in the midst of doing building our -- in fact our whole team is in this week building 2014 plans out.
So until we've gotten both sides of the ledger clearer I'd hesitate to give you a number.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Just looking at your guidance just the trajectory of margins.
If we get to the midpoint of your guidance it looks like you're kind of modeling in less robust margin expansion for the second half of the year than what we saw in the second quarter yet you're saying that core sales growth are set to accelerate.
So can you just help us walk through that dynamic? And just on SG&amp;A how do we think about that as your core sales growth does accelerate? Yes.
So the reason we see margin expansion more modest margin expansion in the second half of the year and the potential for margin contraction in Q3 is because we step up our brand investment.
And when I say brand investment I'm largely referring to advertising and promotion investment in the second half of the year.
And that's partially funded by the flow of renewal savings and in strengthened productivity and potentially some positive price realization which we didn't get in the first half of the year.
And our ambition is -- the strategic ambition of the Growth Game Plan quite frankly is to in fact strengthen the investment behind our brands as a way of accelerating the growth.
So the combination of brand investment plus new capabilities is what drives growth acceleration in the second half of this year and then into '14 and beyond.
And so that's the model that sits behind the Growth Game Plan and that's why we haven't promised big step changes in operating income margin despite the fact we could deliver that if we didn't -- if we let the savings flow to the bottom line and didn't increase the growth commitment.
And so that's the logic behind the Growth Game Plan.
It's releasing the trapped capacity for growth putting that investment back into the business while delivering what we think will be competitive levels of earnings growth and EPS growth.
And that's what we-- begin to do.
We started to do it in Q2 and we'll continue to do it in Q3 and into Q4.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate.
Just last one on housekeeping.
You mentioned the Brazil SAP this past quarter.
Was there a timing shift there on core sales? And was that -- is that reflected in your 2.5% adjusted number if material? We actually didn't -- because for the company it's not material unlike the EMEA's change which is a pretty dramatic shift the $28 million.
While it is material for the Tools segment in the quarter it's really not material for the whole company.
So we didn't call it out either in Q1 or in Q2.
That said as you look at the Tools numbers you do need to think about it and I do think in the Q we -- yes we've called out the Tools-specific impact which is about $5 million shift from Q2 into Q1 that you need to kind of back -- put back into the Tools number to understand what the true underlying performance is.
That's why the best way to look at all these shifts is to look at them on a first half basis.
So Doug in his comments said first half growth on Tools was essentially flat.
That's the real underlying performance in the first half of the year.
And the reason we're optimistic about the Tools business is because our activity is skewed to the back half of the year.
You can see that in all the launches we're doing and the step-up in investment we're making.
And that's why on the full year we think we can get to solid growth despite having to lap a very strong Tools performance in 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just first kind of on the macros broader question.
Are you seeing anything in terms of especially in the more cyclical businesses kind of category improvement in the U.S.
and maybe to some extent in Europe that give you some confidence going to the back half? Or is this mostly growth-related comment kind of company specific? And I say that of do you need category growth? Do you need improvement to kind of have accelerated growth as we move into 2014? No we're not counting on it.
We're not counting on the macros improving.
We said all along that our ideas trump the macros and that's particularly true for us given our footprint.
So my comments early in the Q&amp;A around Tools in Brazil I think John asked the question that's an example of that.
I think we might see some macro benefit in Dcor and in Cookware as the housing market seems to be moving in the right direction.
But quite frankly the thing that will drive Dcor recovery will be stronger ideas.
I think the launch of our wood and faux wood launch in Q3 is going to be the bigger driver of our Dcor business than the housing market.
Same on Cookware.
So I'm -- with the exception of our industrial products business which is probably the most macro-sensitive business if we're talking sort of normal wobbles in GDP growth I don't think our portfolio is as sensitive as maybe some might think to this.
It's far more sensitive to what we do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then more specifically just so I understand when you talk about the Office Depot OfficeMax merger when it does actually happen and is it as big as a 1% impact to your total sales or is it just fairly minimal and it's going to have more of a one quarter type impact? Well I think we haven't gotten to a specific number Bill.
But in any given -- and it also depends on how they execute their synergy plan.
If they're going to take x -- 100 stores out if they did it all in one quarter that would hurt.
We'd get an inventory impact.
If they did 100 stores over 4 quarters or 6 quarters we'd be able to manage through that.
And so we don't have that kind of clarity yet as to how they're going to handle that.
But it is certain that when they take their inventory -- when they take their distribution network and consolidate warehouses and when they reduce their store footprint we're going to see some backing up of inventories in the system and that will disable our ability to sell in to their footprint for a period of time.
Now I'm hopeful it plays out over multiple quarters.
In which case we won't have to talk about it because we'll figure out a way to manage through that manage around it.
If it happens in a 3-month window then it could have a material impact.
But we'll get some more specific with that as we get through the third quarter and into our full year guidance next year.
But it is a real thing that we can't sort of stick our head in the sand on.
We got to plan for it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But it doesn't sound like you're talking about like 3% to 5% growth next year but it's actually going to be 2% to 4% because of this issue? Yes I don't think so.
But I don't know until I get more insight from them.
Your next question comes from the line of Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A question on Baby.
You guys touched on it a little bit before.
Revenue growth obviously continues to do better than expected and you mentioned a couple of new products on -- for both Graco and Aprica and margins improved as well.
So can you update us on how you think about this business and its standing relative to your other businesses within your portfolio? And is it still categorized as incubate at this point? Yes.
Look I think we -- nothing will change the relative portfolio of priorities through the Growth Game Plan window that we're in.
So our Growth Game Plan time frame is through 2017 and the portfolio choices that we've made are sort of fixed in that window.
Baby's performance however is outstanding and I think the team deserves -- Kristie Juster Laurel Hurd the team deserves tremendous credit for this.
And we see similar things starting to happen is Home Solutions.
These 2 businesses these 2 segments are not going to get big advertising and promotion investment.
That's the design of the Growth Game Plan.
They need to grow with less.
And we're attacking the cost structure.
The people are coming out of those business and have been for the last 8 quarters quite frankly.
And so these -- both businesses are figuring out how to grow pulling different types of levers.
In the case of Baby you see what I described.
You see the team pulling 2 levers: One much closer and strategic partnering with customers and good in-store insight work driving better placement and better sell out of the ideas they bring into market; and strengthened partnership with our supply partner bringing bigger better innovation to the market.
But not big A&amp;P investment.
In fact A&amp;P investment in Baby business is down over that time frame and growth is accelerating because they're pulling the levers that are relevant to that category and that drive growth.
And so this is the Growth Game Plan in action.
The Growth Game Plan has 2 pieces to it: One a set of businesses that need to grow ahead of their markets with less resource.
They need to figure out how to do that.
That's Home Solutions.
That's Baby.
And the sets of businesses where we're going to leverage the scale of our $6 billion company and put that scale to work to drive increased competitiveness.
Those are our Win Bigger businesses.
And you see us doing that most profoundly this year on Tools where we're making big investments.
You see the operating income margins stepping back pretty dramatically because we're disproportionately resourcing the step change we're trying to shape.
And next year that may not go on Tools.
That may go somewhere else.
It may go to Commercial Products or it may go to Writing depending on where we believe we need to place those investments at.
That's the power of an operating company.
You can more dynamically manage resources and that's what we're doing.
So is it incubate for growth? There are 2 incubate businesses now post disposal.
There's Endicia and there's Baby.
Should we declare the Baby as a Win Where We Are business? We could.
Effectively they're behaving that way today.
Endicia continues to be an incubate business.
But in terms of the macro choices our portfolio roles are clear in the context of the 5-year -- the first chapter of the Growth Game Plan which is a 5-year time frame through 2017 and we're going to use that framework as what it's intended to be the guardrails on choices.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then just further expanding on the marketing.
Now that you obviously have this marketing organization in place can you talk about changes that have happened since putting that organization in place? And then also within the Win Bigger businesses why is -- can you talk about how you decide how to invest? So like in Brazilian sales forces for Tools as opposed to more promotion and activity in Writing and all the difference things that you go -- that go into the decision-making process on the investment spend.
Yes.
It is in -- I'm really transparent about it.
It is in part a function of readiness and the ideas and the sequence of ideas into market.
And so money flows to ideas and that certainly is one variable that influences choices in any discrete window.
And we have a very very full Tools agenda in the back half of '13 into 2014 and that is shaping our choices.
The other thing that has to be considered is which businesses will create the scale around which you build your emerging market enterprise.
And in the case of the Tools choice for example in Brazil Tools today represents over 80% of our business in Brazil.
So of course we're going to invest in that business as we look to scale our overall footprint.
We'll build the infrastructure around the power categories in those respective countries.
In Colombia in Venezuela it will be Writing.
In Mexico it will be Writing and Commercial Products.
And so these are things that influence choices as well.
Our priorities are Commercial Products Tools and Writing in that order.
And our growth agenda is based on building share in our home markets which is largely North America.
The exception to that is Baby Japan is also what we consider a home market.
And also extending our footprint into the faster-growing emerging markets in a disciplined and focused way in a select group of categories which are Commercial Products Tools and Writing.
And so the sequencing is really a function of readiness and money flows to ideas and we'd look at Mexico Colombia Venezuela and Brazil as our footholds in Latin America as we build out a more broad business system.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
I was hoping to get a little detail on the third quarter operating margin contraction.
Are you thinking it will be flat to slightly down or something bigger like on the order of 100 basis points? My bigger question though is will you be spending in the third quarter what you thought you would have spent at the start of the year? Or are Project Renewal savings coming through faster than expected and if this is a pay-as-you-go system you have more money to spend? Yes.
We won't spend beyond what we think is necessary to drive strategic growth.
So I mean I think -- I reserve the right to sort of gear shift as we get into this.
But the focus of our spending just to be clear in Q3 will be on Writing around back to school; and on our Tools business as we launch into Brazil this big initiative; and as we execute a much bigger and more exciting National Tradesmen Day event in North America in September; and as we start to market more aggressively as our distribution builds Hilmor in North America.
So again the money is flowing to the ideas.
I was very pleased in Q2 on renewal savings flow to the P&amp;L and probably even more pleased with how quickly we saw a step-up in productivity delivery out of the supply chain.
And so both of those variables will influence how much we spend and obviously the growth will influence how much we spend in Q3.
In terms of giving a specific guidance on operating income margin in the quarter we certainly could absorb 100 basis point decline in operating income margin in the quarter and still deliver within our guidance range and strategically support the businesses with that level of spend.
Do I think that's where the story will end? Probably not.
So I wouldn't model that aggressive an investment.
Is it flowing exactly as we thought it would? It's actually not because we invested more strategic investment in Q2 than we anticipated putting some serious money behind consumer research in that window.
That money was originally set to flow into Q3.
And so we've got a lot of moving parts here.
As we're -- as we see room to be able to pull spending forward we're obviously going to do that because it sets up our ability to accelerate growth faster than we otherwise would be able to.
And so there's lots of moving parts.
You got to consider readiness et cetera.
So we saw one advertising campaign the other day that we loved ready to go.
We saw another one that needs more work and I'm not going to spend behind it until it's ready.
And those types of choices could influence sequencing of spending.
Does that make sense Connie? Yes it does.
And then there's -- I was hoping to get some order of magnitude on the onetime pipeline sale in Brazil in Tools in the third quarter.
Well we wouldn't -- despite the temptation I wouldn't give you a specific number but you should expect us to have a very solid growth performance in Tools in Q3.
The challenge in the emerging market is actually to put your finger on it.
In North America I could give you a real number.
But you've got 100 different distributors and customers in Brazil that we're selling this 500 SKUs into.
And when they choose to take that and accept first shipment it's something that we -- that can stretch out over a period of time.
So it's not like in North America where you're selling it to home centers and the hardware channel or distributors where you get a big pipeline bump.
It's spread a little bit more than you might think in a country like Brazil.
Your next question comes from the line of Linda Bolton-Weiser with B.
Riley.
Research Division</strong> So Mike when you first came to the company and kind of laid out your strategy your big picture strategy and how things would progress in phases over a number of years I think I remember you saying that even in the out years that EPS growth wouldn't be likely to be over 9% if I'm remembering correctly.
And yet here we've got a year still fairly early on where you're projecting 8% to 10% EPS growth.
So I'm just kind of wondering how should we think about that.
I mean is it that now we could think about you being a double-digit EPS grower in the out years? Or just how should we think about your original kind of vision on how things would go? Sure.
Look I think the guidance we issued at CAGNY in 2012 is the guidance we would hold to.
Remember we had a $0.03 onetime tax benefit in Q1 that we said we were going to bank and that's what sort of drive the higher performance.
And so you have to be careful in terms of what you assume going forward.
The one thing that we have to be sensitive to though as we think about our EPS growth year-over-year is that as we move through the strategic phase to the acceleration phase we have to make sure that we're delivering EPS growth at competitive levels while trying to drive our strategic vision into action.
And so that's always going to be a tension in the system.
What we said for the acceleration phase was around 9% -- 6% to 9% 5% to 8% for strategic phase 6% to 9% in the acceleration phase.
In any given year or a moment it might be at the lower end or in the higher end.
I would hope we could push towards the higher end.
Part of what will influence that is what we choose to do with what is a very very cash accretive business.
So our capital allocation strategy might influence that at some point in time.
And again either through bolt-on M&amp;A which obviously we did not contemplate at all M&amp;A in or out in the guidance we provided at CAGNY in 2012 we said it was x M&amp;A either disposals or acquisitions and didn't contemplate a more aggressive repurchase authorization than the one we currently have in the marketplace which as you recall is a $300 million authorization that expires next year.
Your final question comes from the line of Leigh Ferst with Wellington Shields.
LLC Research Division</strong> My questions was answered.
This concludes our question-and-answer period.
If we were unable to get to your question please call the Investor Relations team at (770) 418-7075.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for any concluding remarks.
I would just like to say thank you for all your support over the last couple of years and we are very pleased with the progress we're making.
We're entering into a new phase as the -- as most of the disruptive change settles down in the rearview mirror and we get on to operating in the context of the new operating model.
We're very excited about the prospects and the possibilities for our business and we hope to continue to put consistent performance on the board as evidence of that.
So thank you again and we'll talk to you soon.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (855) 859-2056 or for international callers (404) 537-3406 with an access code of 17373814 starting 2 hours following the end of today's call.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
On the call with me today are Mike Polk Newell Rubbermaid's President and CEO; and Doug Martin our Chief Financial Officer.
First let me remind you that we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from the results predicted in our statements.
We caution you to consider important factors that could cause results or outcomes to differ from management's expectations and we direct you to the most -- to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent SEC filing.
And finally as we normally do we will include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The reconciliation with the directly comparable measures determined in accordance with GAAP can be found in the press release and posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.newellrubbermaid.com.
With that I would like to turn the presentation over to Mike.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
We have 2 objectives today.
First Doug and I will review our third quarter results and update you on the progress we're making driving the Growth Game Plan into action.
Second I'll provide some perspective on the balance of 2013 and the factors that could influence delivery as we head towards the new year.
This morning we reported a solid set of Q3 results that represent our ninth consecutive quarter of consistent delivery.
Core sales grew 3.3% driven by strong North America growth of over 4% and very strong Latin America growth of nearly 35%.
Normalized operating income margin increased 30 basis points driven by a significant reduction in overheads as a result of Project Renewal partially offset by a 50-basis-point increase in advertising and promotion and a 30-basis-point decline in gross margin largely due to segment mix of our business.
Normalized earnings per share was $0.52 up 10.6% and $0.03 ahead of consensus and operating cash flow was $361 million up nearly 20%.
Our accelerating growth and increased operating margins and strong cash generation enabled us to pass nearly $91 million back to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases up over 65%.
As previously announced we completed the sale of both our Hardware and Teach Platform businesses in Q3.
Proceeds from these disposals will help fund the $350 million accelerated share repurchase program our board authorized and we announced earlier this morning.
Importantly in the third quarter the transformation agenda in EMEA has moved from planning to execution.
We've made a number of changes to simplify our operations for increased profitability and long-term growth leveling the flow of shipments in Q3 and starting the exit of certain markets and product lines as an enabler to reduce complexity and infrastructure in the region.
Specifically we've begun to exit direct sales in over 50 of the 120 countries and territories that the EMEA region serves.
We've begun to exit our unprofitable custom logo Fine Writing business and we've begun to discontinue the unprofitable parts of our Baby business in about 19 countries.
This simplification of our footprint has allowed us to announce the closure of 7 distribution centers 6 customer service centers 2 factories and 1 test center while also simplifying our go-to-market organization in Europe.
In Q3 this transition when coupled with some timing-related year-ago factors contributed to the step-back from our EMEA underlying core growth rate of about negative 3% to 4%.
If one considers this rate of growth as more reflective of our underlying performance global core sales grew at nearly 4% in Q3.
Over the next 18 months we will execute the phased exit of about $25 million of business in EMEA.
These choices will result in increased absolute dollar profitability in the region and over time lead to core sales growth in our key countries and categories as we focus our resources for growth in our most attractive country category sales.
We plan to absorb these exits within our global core sales results as we did in Q3 and our forward-looking guidance will include the effect of these exits.
All of the restructuring costs associated with the EMEA transformation are funded as part of Project Renewal.
So a solid set of numbers particularly in the context of the changes we're initiating in Europe.
We're starting to see the benefits of the changes we launched earlier this year.
Our new operating model is deployed and we've reorganized the company around its 2 core activity systems: development and delivery.
We've restructured marketing and R&amp;D seeding new processes that will drive a more robust innovation pipeline as a result of significantly increased investments and insights and strengthen design e-commerce and marketing teams.
We've restructured our go-to-market capabilities in North America deploying a customer development model that broadens and deepens customer and channel reach through a one-company approach to customer team and channel leadership using the resulting leadership savings to invest in increased retailer and distributor coverage.
And we've created a global supply chain that is gearing up to unlock costs through strengthened capabilities across all 5 supply-chain disciplines of plan source make deliver and serve.
These changes are starting to yield strengthened results.
Operating margins in the developed world are increasing as Project Renewal delivers significant cost reductions in North America and Europe.
The resulting developed world margin expansion is funding both increased market shares in our home market and the deployment of a select portion of our portfolio into the faster-growing emerging markets: first south to Latin America; and in the future east to Asia.
The reset of our growth and financial algorithm is gaining traction as is evident in our geographic and segment Q3 results.
Core sales growth outside Europe was up over 5% driven by over 6% core sales growth in the Americas.
Tools grew global core sales nearly 6% responding very favorably to increased investment behind new Irwin advertising in North America and a significant expansion of the Irwin portfolio in Brazil.
Baby grew global core sales nearly 8% as a result of double-digit growth in North America driven by strong innovation and customer partnering.
Home Solutions grew global core sales growth over 7% delivering its strongest results in recent years while flattened slightly by shipment timing these strong results were driven by new distribution and innovation on Calphalon strong Back-to-School merchandising on Rubbermaid and new innovation on Levolor.
And our Writing segment had a strong Back-to-School performance in most markets.
For the second consecutive year in the U.S.
we grew share across all channels in the Back-to-School drive period with particularly strong share gains on Sharpie as a result of the successful launch of Sharpie Neon.
Our Writing segment POS growth did not translate to strong global revenue growth because of the continued office superstore channel contraction in North America and Europe and the ongoing reset of our Fine Writing business in China resulting in global core sales growth of only 0.2%.
At the same time as driving sequential increase in our global core growth rates we delivered operating income margin expansion of 30 basis points while also funding increased advertising and promotion investment of 50 basis points.
The 50-basis-point increase in A&amp;P was fueled by a 125-basis-point reduction in SG&amp;A excluding A&amp;P or overheads driven by Project Renewal.
Our strong progress in structural and discretionary costs allowed us to more than cover the headwinds in gross margin related to negative segment mix inflation and foreign exchange and the retained costs associated with our disposals that hit SG&amp;A excluding A&amp;P or overheads.
We entered the fourth quarter with momentum particularly on Baby Tools and Home Solutions and across the Americas.
While our Commercial Products segment did not grow in Q3 the team was up against a tough year-ago comparator of over 8% growth.
Despite very tight health care capital budgets affecting the pace of new purchases of our Rubbermaid medical carts the Commercial Products segment is positioned for a better Q4 and good full year results.
In Writing we're winning on the fundamentals in most markets and channels with strong innovation new advertising and very solid merchandising support.
We take a long view on the Writing segment given its potential the strength of our portfolio and the opportunity for this category around the world.
In that context our guidance and plans have and will accept that revenue growth will continue to be diluted by the impact of the North American superstore contraction and impending consolidation.
All in I'm pleased with our Q3 results while recognizing there's plenty of work still to be done.
With that let me hand the call over to Doug to go through a more detailed review and then I'll return to provide perspective on the balance of the year.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'm going to step you through our Q3 results cost programs and then take a minute to talk about the balance sheet.
Newell's Q3 reported net sales were $1.49 billion which represent a 2.1% increase over the prior year.
Core sales which exclude the impact of unfavorable foreign currency increased 3.3%.
Normalized operating margin was 38.1% a 30-basis-point decline year-over-year.
Improved productivity was more than offset by inflation and unfavorable mix as some of our lower-margin businesses and regions such as a Baby in North America and Home Solutions were our best growing performers during the quarter.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $349.3 million or 23.5% of sales a decline in overall spend of 60 basis points from the prior year.
Total SG&amp;A declined slightly by $2 million and cost savings from Project Renewal enabled us to fund additional strategic advertising and promotional investment.
The biggest increase was in our Tools segment where we invested an incremental $10 million behind the Brazil Tools launch and National Tradesmen Day with good top line results.
Our plans continue to call for another step-up in advertising and promotion behind our brands in the fourth quarter again funded by Renewal.
Normalized operating margin was 14.6% a 30-basis-point improvement from the prior year as Renewal and other savings offset gross margin contraction and brand investment.
Reported operating margin was 12% compared with 12.8% in the prior year.
Interest expense was $15.7 million and our normalized tax rate was 24.3% compared with 28.6% in the prior year largely driven by the geographic mix of earnings and discrete items in each period.
Normalized earnings per share excluding restructuring and restructuring-related costs income tax items and discontinued operations were $0.52 a 10.6% increase from a year ago.
The increase is primarily attributable to the acceleration in core sales growth complemented by the lower tax rate this quarter and partially offset by about $0.01 of foreign exchange.
Third quarter reported earnings per share were $0.66 compared with $0.37 last year.
We generated operating cash of $360.8 million during Q3 compared with $301.5 million in the prior year.
The increase is primarily driven by a 6-day improvement in net working capital year-over-year.
We also returned $90.8 million to shareholders during the quarter including $44 million in dividends and $46.8 million from the repurchase of 1.8 million shares.
Program to date we have spent $257 million to repurchase 12.9 million shares at an average price of $19.86.
This leaves us $43 million available under the current program which we intend to use by the middle of next year.
Turning now to the segments.
In our Writing segment reported net sales declined by 0.9%.
Core sales increased 0.2%.
Our Latin America Writing business generated strong growth of almost 40% fueled by pricing and volume increases.
We also had solid growth in North America outside of the office superstore channel which was offset by office superstore channel and European declines.
Third quarter normalized operating margin in the Writing segment was 24%.
This 550-basis-point improvement was largely due to pricing productivity and structural SG&amp;A reductions.
The Home Solutions segment had strong third quarter results with net sales growth of 6.8% to $431.4 million.
Core sales grew 7.2%.
The growth reflected good execution in the U.S.
behind Rubbermaid Consumer merchandising successful new product launches at Levolor against weak year-ago results and robust growth from Calphalon driven by distribution gains.
A portion of the growth was also timing-related as we shipped some Black Friday merchandise earlier in the season than we did a year ago.
Home Solutions' normalized operating margin was 15.4% a 90-basis-point decline versus prior year reflecting mix and increased customer promotions to support new product launches and new customers.
The Tools segment also delivered a good quarter reflecting the success of our expanded product offering initiative in Brazil and the impact of National Tradesmen Day around the globe.
Reported sales grew 3.4%.
Core sales growth was a robust 5.7%.
Normalized operating margin in the Tools segment was 5.8% down versus last year's 13.2%.
Most of the decline was due to the increased advertising and promotion to support these 2 big growth initiatives.
We made a big bet in this segment that paid off in Q3 top line growth and we believe will drive higher sales for some time to come.
We expect to realize operating margin leverage from this -- from these investments in brand support beginning in 2014 as we continue to grow this one bigger business.
Reported net sales in the Consumer Products segment were down 4.5% and core sales declined 4.3%.
We were up against our strongest year-ago comparisons this quarter versus 8.4% growth last year.
In addition our health care business slowed this quarter due to category dynamics in the health care industry fueled by uncertainty around health care reform and government budget priorities.
Operating margin for this segment was 12% down versus last year's 15.2% due to higher promotional activity selling and product marketing expense partially offset by Renewal savings.
Our Baby segment continued its strong performance this quarter with reported sales growth of 4.8% and core sales growth of 7.9%.
We continue to win in Baby due to successful innovation and increased presence at our retail partners in North America.
This was somewhat offset by weaker results in Asia where we are comparing against 2 years of very strong growth.
Baby's Q3 normalized operating margin was 12.7% up 280 basis points to last year largely the benefit of Renewal cost savings and increased sales.
Looking at Q3 core sales by geography North America grew 4.1% as a result of strong performances from Baby and Home Solutions.
In EMEA core sales declined 9.9% which reflects ongoing overall market trends exacerbated by some of the strategic changes we're making to exit unprofitable categories.
In Latin America core sales grew 34.7% driven by very strong results from the Writing and Tools segments.
In Asia core sales declined 7.4% due to continued pressure from the step-back in the Fine Writing China model and from Aprica which is experiencing tough comparisons against very robust growth trends in 2011 and 2012.
Developed world core sales growth was approximately 2% driven by solid U.S.
growth rate of 4.2% offset by softer results in Europe and Japan.
Our emerging markets business grew approximately 10% attributable to very robust growth trends across all segments in Latin America.
Switching now to cost programs.
We continue to make good progress on Project Renewal and our indirect spend initiative.
Through the end of Q3 we are on plan having realized approximately $160 million in cumulative savings.
These costs -- these cost savings have enabled the brand investment that you saw from us this quarter which in turn is beginning to drive accelerated core sales growth in our priority businesses and markets.
We intend to continue to invest heavily in the fourth quarter to drive accelerated performance and position ourselves for sustainable growth in 2014.
I'm going to finish this morning by taking a few minutes to talk about the balance sheet.
We spend a lot of our time communicating the progress against strengthening capabilities to deliver the Growth Game Plan.
We have been equally focused on strengthening the balance sheet and managing an efficient capital structure.
As Mike mentioned our board has approved a $350 million accelerated share repurchase program to be entered into this quarter.
This program will be funded with current year free cash flow and proceeds from the divestiture of our Hardware business.
During the third quarter we also renegotiated our accounts receivable securitization program increasing its size from $200 million to $350 million extending it to 2 years from 1 and on better terms.
This along with our revolving credit facility and absence of long-term maturities until 2015 leave us in a very strong liquidity position.
Our debt-to-equity EBITDA multiple and interest coverage ratios are also very healthy.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mike for some additional comments.
Thanks Doug.
So let's now turn to our 2013 outlook.
As communicated this morning we've reaffirmed our full year guidance of core sales growth of 2% to 4% normalized operating income margin expansion of up to 20 basis points normalized EPS of $1.80 to $1.84 and operating cash flow in the range of $575 million to $625 million.
Our full year guidance assumes sustained momentum in Tools and Baby solid growth in Home Solutions a return to growth in Commercial Products and Writing results roughly in line with the year-to-date performance.
Our guidance also assumes we increase advertising and promotion support in Q4 funded in large part by continued reductions in overheads positive price realization and strengthened productivity.
There are 2 factors that could influence where we fall in our 2013 full year guidance range.
The first factor relates to the delivery of Renewal savings and other margin-enhancing actions that will enable the planned increase in Q4 brand investment.
While we're not satisfied with the gross margin in Q3 due largely to mix for the first quarter in the last 4 we delivered positive price realization and expect that to accelerate in Q4 given pricing actions we've taken across the portfolio.
We're right on track to deliver the planned Project Renewal savings that Doug just said and we expect to sequentially strengthen our productivity delivery in Q4.
As a result we're on track to step up A&amp;P and investment in our consumer research in Q4 versus prior year by about the same amount as we did in Q3.
The second factor influencing where we fall in our full year guidance range is the timing of the Office Depot-OfficeMax merger.
Recent press reports suggest their merger will be completed over the next few weeks.
As previously discussed the combination of Office Depot and OfficeMax will result in a retail footprint consolidation in the U.S.
and yield a onetime trade-inventory-reduction-driven revenue and earnings hit for Newell as retail inventories are rebalanced.
Our 2013 guidance assumes this will not affect 2013 results.
While we have no visibility to their actual plan for integration if the retail consolidation were to be fully completed in 1 year our best estimate at this time would be that their consolidation would result in a onetime drag on Newell's total company global growth of 30 to 50 basis points and a onetime drag on EPS of $0.02 to $0.04 or 1% to 2%.
When we shared our long-term strategic guidance early in 2012 at CAGNY that guidance excluded any impacts associated with M&amp;A new below-the-line actions like today's ASR and did not consider big external events like the merger of the 2 of our top 10 global customers.
While we'll not discuss 2014 full year guidance until we announce year end results in January we're developing plans to manage the impact of the Depot-Max transition in 2014 in the context of our long-term guidance for the strategic stage of the Growth Game Plan.
Today's announcement of the $350 million accelerated share repurchase will enable us to absorb the onetime EPS impact of the Depot-Max merger and the retained cost impact associated with our 2013 disposals leaving some room for us to potentially deliver just above the high side of our long-term EPS guidance range for the strategic stage of the Growth Game Plan of 5% to 8% EPS growth.
As we build our plans for 2014 we expect to step up advertising and promotion investment again fueled in part by growth in line with the long-term guidance for the strategic stage of the Growth Game Plan; gross margin increases driven by pricing and productivity ahead of inflation; and continued reductions in SG&amp;A less A&amp;P or overheads driven by Project Renewal.
Again we'll not issue 2014 guidance until the end of January given our plans for 2014 are still in development.
With respect to this year we continue to believe the middle of our 2013 full year guidance range is the best estimate for our current year delivery in core sales normalized EPS and operating cash flow.
The middle of our full year normalized EPS guidance would yield full year EPS of $1.82 and imply Q4 normalized EPS of $0.45.
To the extent we have visibility to overdeliver against the middle of the full year normalized EPS range we would instead choose to deploy the earnings back into A&amp;P and consumer research to position ourselves for accelerated performance in 2014 and beyond.
Let me close by reminding you that we've now delivered our ninth consecutive quarter of consistent and competitive results.
We're delivering these results while simultaneously driving change change that is transforming our company from a holding company to a highly focused results-oriented operating company.
We're all pleased that the biggest and most disruptive change is now behind us especially in the demand creation functions of marketing insight design and customer development.
We've gotten here faster than I thought we would as a result of the determination and grit of our people.
They've driven the new operating model into action and they've begun to make the change count.
We're moving quickly now to drive our new capabilities to full throttle.
The more research we do the more convinced and excited we are that we have a very strong set of brands with real upside potential.
Project Renewal has and will continue to unlock our capacity for investment creating new funding for our capability agenda which will in turn create new possibilities for our brands.
We're entering the phase of the Growth Game Plan where we begin to reap the benefits of our transformation.
Some of what we've done will have fast impact.
We can accelerate plans add new activity or amplify existing plans and ideas by strengthening investment.
Tools Commercial Products and Writing will continue to be the beneficiaries of these types of choices.
We're pacing investments in a disciplined thoughtful way with funding flowing to the most compelling attractive ideas that are consistent with our priorities.
Our strategic initiatives will take a little longer but will create more lasting value and have greater impact.
Today we're putting the building blocks in place for what will be a strengthened future growth funnel by doubling our investment in consumer research by supporting new talent like our new VP of Innovation Nate Young who's helping marketing insight design and supply chain teams ideate through a process they call Innovation Now; and by consolidating our creative and media relationships to fewer bigger world-class partnerships that will help strengthen and develop our brands in innovation.
These emerging capabilities and new processes have generated over 1 500 idea fragments since their first inception 3 months ago.
And if just 1% of them become $10 million ideas we'll have generated a new funnel of growth valued at $150 million.
Money flows to ideas and people.
And we're now building a pipeline of investable ideas.
And we have built a group of investable teams.
That's the power of our new operating model with focused capabilities in development and delivery.
That's the power of our people.
And that's the power of the Growth Game Plan in action.
With that let's open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I wanted to get a sense for I guess how Q3 margin progressed relative to your expectations.
I imagine you didn't necessarily foresee the level of gross margin weakness.
And SG&amp;A came down pretty substantially right? So I just want to get a sense for what kind of short-term trade-offs on growth investments maybe you needed to make in the quarter if any? And I guess that in the context of the fact that A&amp;P was up 50 basis points so were there trade-offs you needed to make in the quarter to get to where you wanted to be on the EPS line? No actually.
And we our money -- we could've invested more quite frankly but we didn't have things ready to invest behind.
So we had -- we've been very disciplined Chris about not putting money until ideas are ready.
We had some -- we have Paper Mate advertisements that's now on-air as of the middle of September.
It will be on-air through the balance of the year.
But we put that advertising back through another round of change in about the middle of July because it didn't meet our thresholds for performance.
As you recall I've said that we're not going to put money behind things that are not ready to be invested in.
And while the advertising was good it wasn't great.
And we needed to put it through another twist.
We could've spent more on Paper Mate in Q3 if we had chosen to.
We didn't need to beat by $0.03.
But the material wasn't ready.
So that was a key choice that we made in the quarter.
I will say that while I'm pleased that we've gotten to positive price realization in gross margin in the third quarter and that's the first quarter in the last 4 that we've seen that I wasn't -- we could've delivered better gross margin had the mix been slightly stronger.
And so with Baby growth and with Home Solutions growth at the level that they're at we mixed to negative perhaps a little bit more so than we anticipated.
But that didn't drive any investment choices to be quite honest.
I mean we would've -- if the Paper Mate advertising would have been ready we would've put it on-air earlier.
You'll see significant investment in Writing advertising in Q4 as a result of that timing issue.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just quickly on the ASR.
So I guess it's great by the way.
$350 million ASR is great.
But it's only I guess $180 million over the deal proceeds you guys are getting in.
So it still leaves you guys a pretty substantial amount of flexibility on cash.
Just can you talk about that in the context of how you're viewing tack-ons and other potential uses? Yes.
So a good question Chris.
I mean we've been quite clear that we want to get the change agenda bed down.
So we don't believe that bolt-ons today are the right idea for the company as we get the change agenda sorted.
I think that becomes an increasingly attractive option over time.
And as we've said late 2014 into 2015 we might consider bolt-ons as a way of strengthening our agenda within our core segments.
And it won't envision anything that has sort of extended the shoulders of our portfolio.
But there's nothing cooking there but we certainly are open to using cash that strategically.
We felt like this was an appropriate and balanced approach to providing value to our investors as we continue to transform the company.
And we've said we're going to partner with our investors as we transform.
And we've been consistent in doing that in a steady and sequential way.
And I think this choice reflects that commitment.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike I know you said you're not giving guidance for 2014 but I think there are enough metrics thrown out there that I have some kind of idea on 2014.
Just to make sure I'm understanding that you're kind of talking about 8% to 9% EPS growth is possible.
And the reason I ask that is if we kind of take the ASR and Office Depot-OfficeMax that's plus 3% already.
So I mean are you comfortable with kind of the metrics of if you're growing top line 4% that you're only growing bottom line core by 6%? Or is -- and does that imply kind of another year of reinvestment is needed to really get this thing going? So the place I'd start if you're trying to understand how we think is to go back to the CAGNY 2012 or even more recently the Barclays Back-to-School Conference where we laid out the 3 stages of the Growth Game Plan.
And we've put metrics connected to each of those.
I think those are the that's the right starting place for any conversation about our business.
And in fact every time I have a discussion with my team that's where we start.
These are the commitments.
We said 2014 at Barclays is right smack in the middle of the strategic stage of the Growth Game Plan.
So the guidance we've communicated there back in 2012 and it's still consistent today was 3% to 4% core sales growth and 5% to 8% normalized EPS growth.
That guidance assumed no M&amp;A activities either disposals or acquisitions by us.
It assumed no incremental below-the-line activity other than what had been authorized at that point in time which was the $300 million 2011 open market repurchase.
And it assumed no big external events.
It sort of assumed the status quo on the external.
So the macro's flat.
And it certainly didn't anticipate 2 of our top 10 customers consolidating.
So the things that are different as you look to build your view of our results in '14 and certainly influences the way we think what's different? Well Depot-Max are consolidating.
And I don't view that as a strategic issue for us.
I actually view that as a strategic opportunity for us long term but it creates an event in the moment of their consolidation that we have to deal with.
That's new news.
So we've got to deal with that.
We didn't anticipate at that time disposing our Hardware and Teach platforms which leaves us with a retained cost issue which was never in the guidance which we have to deal with.
And then of course the ASR was not in the equation at that point which is a positive.
And those 3 things those 3 moving parts are really the things you've got to calibrate as you build your models and then we have to think through as we sustain our commitment to the underlying assumptions that were -- that underpins the strategic stage of the Growth Game Plan which were that in the strategic stage we would take the cost out the radical restructuring of our overhead structure and shift that benefit in large part to A&amp;P.
And that's what we're in the middle of doing.
That's what you see in our Q3 results.
You see a 125-basis-point reduction in overheads and a 50-basis-point increase in A&amp;P.
And while we'd like to continue to put more in that we're managing into A&amp;P we're managing the trade-offs in the current moment.
And we're investing as much as we think it's prudent to invest while delivering competitive returns.
In 2014 we will step up A&amp;P again substantially.
And we need to.
We want to because we want to take that overhead benefit of Renewal restructuring and put it to work for our brands.
So as you build your framework and your model for 2014 you should do it in that context.
And we're thinking about it in that context.
That should enable us given the size of the ASB to potentially deliver EPS near or above the high end of the range.
And I don't know -- we have to work through the details of that.
We're not prepared to give you a specific number.
You said 8% to 9%.
That's generally in the range.
And we need to also work through the core guidance given the product line exits we'll be doing in Europe and the risk associated with the retail inventory liquidation onetime event with Depot-Max.
All of that stuff goes into the crucible.
We sort of let it simmer for a while as we cook a plan.
And we'll come out with guidance at the end of January.
But you're right.
I've given you all the variables we're thinking about.
And I did that purposely so that you could think about it while we're thinking about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Doug just a couple of other variables.
Can you maybe quantify the pull-forward on Home Solutions? And does that impact fourth quarter? And then also on the ASB don't we just from accounting standpoint reflect that for the fourth quarter? I mean isn't it fully reflected immediately? It's to the second point first yes.
There'll be some impact in the fourth quarter but it's very very small.
It depends on when we actually execute the agreement to go ahead and begin and then the amount of shares we get at the very beginning.
So I would say that's a very very small impact on the fourth quarter.
And to your first question we're not going to give -- I'm not going to give I guess a specific number on what shifted from Q3 to -- Q4 to Q3 on the Black Friday promotions.
But it was -- it moved their revenue number a little bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First number one does the ASR change your thinking on the dividend? Or is that still a priority in terms of growing that in line with cash flow? Look Chris asked a good question don't you have plenty of capacity left? Yes we do.
We will -- we've articulated what our guidance is on dividend payout ratios.
And we said 30% to 35% would put us in the competitive zone versus our peer group.
It's not quite as high as fast-moving consumer goods but it's competitive.
And we've moved a long ways over the last couple of years.
You should expect us to sustain that and to grow and increase our dividend.
Of course this is the board's call but you should expect us to recommend to the board that we will continue to do that with EPS growth.
And I think that's a good assumption to make.
And it's an important one for you guys to make in the context of your modeling of free cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then second question on the consolidation in the office superstores kind of how should we think about that? Obviously there's been inventory drawdown as you lead towards the closing.
But as you think about 2014 is it your sense that there's going to be sort of this consistent or persistent headwind either as they move to rationalize stores or further consolidate their inventory? Or how should we think about that? Is this the kind of thing where we get through 2013 and boom the headwind goes away? Or does it stay with us for some time? So I think and I was trying to I was -- in my commentary I was suggesting that it stays with us for a while.
I think it's through 2014.
Of course it will be all dependent on how they execute their integration plan.
And we just don't have a line of sight to that yet.
And we won't until they complete their merger.
But they're clearly working on it.
And as soon as they're through and have approval of the deal they'll share that with us.
They have been -- and there's plenty of press reports out there about the number of store closings that will occur.
And I think that's the biggest driver of the retail inventory consolidation will be the number of stores they close.
And if you look at that data you begin to -- you can triangulate on the numbers that we shared with you.
The big question Wendy is over what timeframe do they execute this.
Is it focused in a 6-month window? Is it spread out over an 18-month window? If it's spread out over an 18-month window then we'll have a slower impact.
And it's more manageable for us.
If it's in a very focused window it will create an event that we'll try to share with you that might impact our ability to deliver sort of a steady flow of EPS and growth.
We'll be as transparent as we can with you.
I actually view this not as a strategic issue for us.
This is something we're going to have to deal with.
We need to keep our finger on the pulse of it.
And we need to continue to invest in our Writing business for the strategic long term.
The worst thing we could do in this environment is pull back investment or think about the category differently than we do.
It's a strategically very very attractive category on trend particularly in the emerging markets as people move from the low end of the social pyramid to the middle class.
And they tend to access education more actively.
Writing is right in the heart it's an education tool business in those geographies.
So it's very very strategically attractive to us.
And we're going to manage through this moment in time in this disruption connected to the Depot-Max integration with that in mind.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I just have one final one which is just in terms of your stated target of expanding or growing your advertising spending I mean as you work through your plans and see how much you're spending and the kind of payback you're getting do you have a number in mind in terms of hey we kind of want to migrate to 3.5% of sales 4% of sales on advertising? Because I'm curious I mean you've been very careful not to give us a timeframe for the company to reach the 15% sort of operating margin target.
And we're kind of 1.5 years after your analyst meeting.
I'm wondering kind of whether you can give us a target for that? Nice try.
Not yet.
Look I'm going to look at the advertising investment without a targeted investment level in mind because I want to see if it's working.
Some of the categories we're investing behind like Tools I want to see if we get a yield or we can drive equity perception on the brands and get pricing leverage out of it or that we drive takeaway with it.
So we've put $10 million behind the Tools business.
That's the biggest investment we've ever made in Tools in Q3 ever in strategic marketing funds.
And so we're going to -- Richard Davies has research in his bloodstream.
He's very objective about this stuff.
And he's going to measure it.
And we're going to learn from it.
And he and Rich Mathews are going to decide whether that's a good thing for us to invest in or not to drive profitable growth.
So I don't know what the answer is to be honest with you with respect to what the A&amp;P level ought to be.
I know we have an appetite to spend more.
I can tell you that.
But we're not going to do it in an undisciplined way because we've made a commitment to steadily improve operating income margin which we're on target to do maybe even do a little bit better than we thought we would at the beginning of the year.
And we're going to want to do again next year and the year after and the year after.
So if you do the math eventually we cross over that 15% threshold.
And I'll decide maybe between now and CAGNY whether we want to give you a date.
Nancy's kicking me under the table saying "No we don't." Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First I want to ask about Commercial Products.
So 2 things.
One is in this healthcare dynamic.
And I know you said you know kind of position for things to be better next quarter.
So can you talk a little about why there is or isn't a structural issue in the healthcare market that you're worried about will be one.
And then two if you could talk about performance in the balance of the Commercial Products business? I think Executive Series was launching this quarter and just sort of other dynamics across that portfolio there? Look we love our Rubbermaid Commercial Products business.
This is a great business.
And we're investing in it both on the development side increasingly and in the selling side.
And we have tons of opportunity both in our home markets and as we extend the footprint into Latin America and into Asia particular interest in China.
There are a lot of local competitors but there's no strategic competitors in the categories that we work in.
There's some in some of the adjacencies but very few.
So if we apply the best capabilities we have against this category we can build this category quite strategically and do so in a very profitable way.
So I remain very very excited about this.
It is the first one on our list of priorities Commercial Products Tools and then Writing.
And so I'm not at all fussed about the Q3 outcome.
We see and have every reason to believe that the core of the portfolio continues to grow quite nicely and on the full year will deliver good numbers.
In the medical carts or in the healthcare vertical we're not having an issue with our core business cleaning refuse all of those products are doing just fine.
When we talk about our medical carts business we're talking about high-ticket items.
If a hospital's going to buy into our line they're buying 250 carts.
And each cart could be $3 000 to $5 000 because of the technology built into them.
So these tend to not be choices made by the buying department.
They tend to be made either in the IT group or made by somebody that controls the capital budget for the hospital.
And that's where the pressure is in the healthcare vertical not in the everyday procurement the more consumable side of our portfolio.
And I think this issue is one we have to accept and deal with until there's a little bit more clarity for these health networks in the context of all the changes going on in the U.S.
And so it's in that slice of our business where there's going to be some overhang.
It's not -- it's less than 10% of the total business in the U.S.
So it's not a huge piece of the portfolio.
Actually right around 10% of the total business in the U.S.
So it's that piece of the business that might have some overhang on it.
The rest of our business it's off to the races it's core and it's profitable and it's interesting.
Research Division</strong> So Mike was the decline though in this high-ticket cart significant enough this quarter like it's something we should be thinking about for the next couple of quarters? Because it's tough to imagine there's a ton of visibility on the healthcare environment in the U.S.
near term.
I'm just surprised that 10% of sales will be this much of a drag? Or if there was something else in the other businesses just a timing issue or something from the quarter? I think the way to think about that piece of our Commercial Products business is that you shouldn't expect a lot of growth there.
We'll probably be treading water for a while until that clarity occurs.
There may be some step-backs.
It's not a very profitable portion of our business.
That's the other thing to know because we're -- we have a fairly high SG&amp;A base as we're scaling it.
So it doesn't really have any flow-through huge flow-through negatives to margin.
It'd sort of be immaterial on EPS.
But on growth it's sort of an opportunity that we've been leveraging that loses a little leverage for us going forward.
But the rest of the portfolio should be unaffected.
We should get core growth on the 90% that I was referring to.
But I wouldn't worry about it in EPS.
It's just sort of -- there's an opportunity cost connected to not being able to grow it as much as we had hoped.
And I think that you're right Lauren.
I wouldn't build a plan based on our medical cart system growth in 2000 -- that was dependent on that in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just last on Tools because you didn't mention Lenox at all.
So just curious or assuming that that's continued to be soft in China and the U.S.
and just the macro [indiscernible]? It actually -- no I didn't mention it but thanks for serving up that pitch to me.
Actually Lenox had a good quarter and is positioned to have a good quarter going into Q4.
So we're actually looking better on that business in the second half than we were in the first.
So we've got a little bit of momentum rebuilding there.
So that isn't an issue.
Research Division</strong> Is that China and U.S.
Mike? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> Sorry is that in U.S.
and China? Both.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> How important is gross margin to the delivery of the Game Plan? Only because it seems like at least for the time being there's going to be sort of a natural mix drag given what's going on with Fine Writing and obviously also with the Writing business broadly and then the outsized growth in the obviously in the Baby care business? I mean it's obviously very important.
And I think gross margin's the lifeblood of any business it's not just ours.
So gross margin percent increases are really quite essential particularly as we move through '14 into '15 as we lose the leverage in overhead reduction.
So it is critical that our activity systems sharpen.
And we consistently deliver gross margin percentage increases quarter in and quarter out.
There are some mix issues in our business that we should accept willingly our Baby business for example.
There are 3 factors to -- that you have to look at to determine what a great business is.
One is growth potential.
One is gross margin mix and operating income margin mix impact.
And the other is how much fixed investment you have tied up in the business what's the return on net assets? Baby happens to be one of those businesses which has a great return on net assets because we have no factories.
And we don't take -- we have very very short supply value chain.
So our inventory levels are quite low.
So the return on net assets on that business is very high.
But in order to get that you have to accept lower gross margins because the supply partner takes a piece of the margin.
And that's a mix negative I'm perfectly happy and you should be perfectly happy for us to accept.
And I'll just give you some reference point.
If you go back to 2011 we've probably grown EBITDA in that business $50 million.
If you think we can get 9x on that business that's $450 million $500 million of value creation despite accepting the mix negative to our total overall performance.
So you want us to grow that business.
We create a ton of value for your investors our investors.
And we should accept that the negative mix effect to gross margin.
Now not all businesses look like that business.
And so I don't aim off at all what I said upfront.
We need to get gross margin percentage positive.
We need to get positive price realization every quarter.
I'm pleased that we've gotten positive price realization in the third quarter for the first quarter in the last 4.
And we expect that to accelerate as we go into Q4.
Meri needs to through the supply chain that we're building deliver increased productivity contribution to the overall gross margin delivery.
And we need our selling organizations to maximize the mix as they look to drive our growth.
And we need to bring margin accretive innovation to the table through Mark Tarchetti's group and the development teams.
And so all of those things go into delivering the outcome you're wondering whether we're committed to which of course we are.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So will gross margin it will definitely improve sequentially but will it be up year-over-year and then maybe will you have gross margin expansion in 2014? We need gross margin expansion in 2014.
And we will deliver gross margin expansion in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the fourth quarter is probably going to be down year-over-year again? No.
Research Division</strong> No? Good.
And then can we just -- can you get Doug can you just walk us through the gross margin bridge? I'm a little bit confused because I know it was 40 bps negative mix but what was the balance of that? Well there was a little bit of pricing as Mike mentioned Bill in that piece as well and mix inflation and productivity largely offset in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just like lastly on Europe can you just take the other restructuring charge there? Because I think the business is still below corporate average or well below corporate average in terms of operating margin.
So is the goal in Europe to get that operating margin up to the corporate average or even higher especially if you want to use that money to fund emerging markets growth? Yes.
We want -- there's no need for another restructuring program.
We've got plenty of room in Project Renewal.
And it was always oriented towards funding what we need to do in Europe.
We want to get our absolute productivity -- our absolute profitability up in Europe.
And I'm happy for the operating income margin to go up as well.
It's really important for absolute productivity to go up particularly U.S.
GAAP absolute productivity because remember we have a tax-efficient model in Europe.
And we get a mix positive in Europe if we're able to do that -- so on our tax rate.
So you get a flow-through of profitability to EPS at a much higher rate than you would in for example in the U.S.
So it's really critical that we get our European profitability up.
We intend to do that.
And we are doing that quite frankly.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then a quick last one.
I mean will you use acquisitions as a way to enhance your gross margins like anything you buy is going to be gross margin-accretive to the overall business? I know it's a year off but it's good to look for [indiscernible].
Okay.
Yes.
So it's a little ways off Bill to kind of give you the criteria we would use.
It depends on the business quite frankly because there's some very high gross margin but high SG&amp;A businesses that would be dilutive at operating income margin.
And so I'm reluctant to kind of peg the margin number in the middle of the P&amp;L.
What I'm most interested in is whether we get leverage all the way through to operating income margin.
And I'd want it to be cash-accretive.
And I'd want it to be strategically consistent with gaps we might have in our existing portfolio.
Again I don't envision us going to the shoulders of the portfolio.
If we did any M&amp;A it would be in the core.
Your next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Really on Tools I know Wendy went a little bit over that but can you talk a little bit about the Tools margin? It's one of the lowest that I've seen.
And I know that you put $10 million of investment in there.
And I think you said you're going to do the same in the fourth quarter.
When will we see the margin enhancement there? Yes.
No we're going to invest in A&amp;P in the fourth quarter but it actually is going to shift from Tools to different businesses so to be more balanced.
You'll see operating -- you should see operating income margins step up in Q4 on Tools.
And you'll see that continue as we profit from scale.
What we're doing Budd is we're managing our A&amp;P investment very dynamically.
When you change the company from a holding company to an operating company you have the flexibility to do that dynamic resource management and move money around.
So we invested behind the ideas in Q3.
And the ideas were big in North America and in Latin America on Tools the launch of the extended line in Brazil and the commitment to build National Tradesmen Day out as a core platform in September.
So you have the convergence of those 2 big bets.
And you would -- if we showed you the full P&amp;L for Tools you'd see A&amp;P pull back in Q4 and us leverage our selling systems as the driver of continued growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so will the growth actually accelerate in Q4 as well over the 5.7% core? Or -- and how should we think about that for Tools in the fourth quarter and maybe into 2014? Yes.
We haven't given -- we don't guide on growth Budd by quarter.
We don't guide on anything by quarter and we don't guide on growth by segment.
But one thing to think about with respect to Tools is that given the launch in Brazil of that extended line there was a pipeline benefit in Q3 that doesn't repeat in Q4.
So whether we're able to sustain that growth rate in Q4 is a -- I wouldn't plan on that but should we have solid growth? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just talk a little bit more about EMEA what you're planning to do there.
I congratulate you on that but give us maybe a little bit more color maybe you went over so quickly I couldn't quite keep up with it.
No problem Budd.
I think you kept up with it but I'll go back to it and see if you can mine some extra data out of me.
We're pulling out of certain country category sales as an enabler to be able to release the infrastructure cost in Europe.
And that's particularly true in our HiQ businesses like baby gear where that ties up a lot of warehouse space.
So as you think about what I said we took out a bunch of distribution centers.
We took out a bunch of different customer service centers.
And so by focusing on the unprofitable portions of our baby gear business we obviously improved the margin delivery in Baby but we also enabled the fixed cost to come out on connected to the infrastructure.
Now the 50-country territory sales that we'll exit are not high-revenue sales for us but they carry cost with them.
There's all kinds of intangible costs with respect to invoice processing transactional cost connected to serving those markets in the way we do.
And so it makes no economic sense to stay in some of these markets and because they're not attractive and they're not strategic in the context of the Growth Game Plan it makes sense to accept the revenue loss and assume that we get administrative benefits out of that through some of the restructuring we're doing on that side of the equation.
It's really important for us to do all this for 2 reasons.
One those costs in part will be reinvested into what we describe as the most strategic and attractive sales in Europe.
There's probably about 20 to 30 country-category sales that are investable in Europe that we can grow if we put the proper A&amp;P behind these businesses.
And we will use some of the proceeds to do that.
After having done that we expect to be able to increase absolute profitability and margin contribution to the total company.
So this is a pretty strategic and important set of choices we're making.
It will enable a more sustainable European business while at the same time contributing to the investment we want to make for market share growth in our home markets and the extension of a select portion of our portfolio into the faster-growing emerging markets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I congratulate you on that.
I've only heard about Europe being attacked like this for maybe 20 years from the company.
So if you get it done this is going to be great.
So I look forward to learning more about it and seeing the results.
Great.
Happy to take you through it in more detail at some point.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
I'm wondering if you would discuss a little bit what you learned about the Hilmor launch in 2013 and what kind of rollout that might suggest for next year? Yes Connie things are going right where we -- right on track with where we'd hoped they'd be at this point.
This is a pretty seasonal business.
So we come into the core season as we enter Q1 core buying season as we enter Q1.
The vast majority of these tools are used -- these are HVAC tools.
The vast majority of these tools have leverage through the air conditioning season but the buying season for that is January February March.
So we come into that season obviously having been out there and in distribution for a bit of time in a very good position to be able to leverage the Hilmor brand through all the trade events that will occur in that window.
We're really pleased with the feedback we're getting about the product.
At some point we'll find a forum to share some of the verbatims from some of these technicians on the products themselves.
And that's really important to us long term.
I do not envision us extending that product line outside of the U.S.
in 2014.
And I think that was the heart of your question.
We expect to kind of keep the business focused and learn with another year of investment here.
There's some innovation work going on to extend the portfolio next year in the U.S.
and we'll think about when we extend that footprint beyond the U.S.
as we come through next year.
But this is a stay-in-the-home market play for the moment with an ambition to go more broadly over time.
Okay just 2 more I think short questions.
On the ASR should we assume that it will be completed within the course of 2014? Or do you think it would be done over the next few months? And secondly what kind of return did you see on the Rubbermaid Home Solutions merchandising events? And will you spread that marketing practice to other categories? So Connie this is Doug.
I'll handle the first part of that and then Mike will jump in on the Rubbermaid piece.
The ASR is -- we expect to execute that in the next week or so and then execute as in sign on the dotted line with the banks on that.
And we expect to have that implemented over the -- in the first part of 2014 before the first half is over.
Connie on your question with respect to the Furious 5 merchandising events as we called them which were 5 drive periods on largely on Rubbermaid Consumer Products.
We were very pleased with the outcome.
It obviously contributed to a strong performance particularly on the food and beverage portions of the Rubbermaid Consumer portfolio.
And those are highly attractive businesses to us.
Gross margins are positively -- they are accretive certainly to Rubbermaid Consumer and they're strong and in line with the company average which is unique for that overall portfolio.
So this is the attractive portion of their portfolio.
It's also the on-trend portion of that portfolio given some of the issues that are out there regarding disposable storage containers and the concerns that many environmental groups have with them.
So this is a very positive space for us.
We continue to plan to invest in it.
And next year you'll see continued investment.
In this business we have to be very careful how we manage that.
So we've been buying frequency of events but we have to be very careful on letting price points get away from us on merchandising.
So we've set up a framework and sort of guardrails for the selling teams to ensure that they don't as they increase frequency of merchandising don't dip price points outside of our pricing principles.
And that's really an important thing for our sales leaders to manage.
And we are increasingly doing the kind of research you need to do to understand what those thresholds look like through Richard Davies' new consumer insights group.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Doug just wanted a clarification there where you talk about the ASR being executed you're talking about the banks going in and actually buying the stock back right? Not when you get credit for it? That's correct.
We expect to have that happen over the first part of next year first half of next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one what I hope is a quick question here as we look at you guys making a bigger push in emerging markets obviously there's been a lot of volatility some slowdown et cetera.
Is that anything we need to be worried about? Or is it something where you guys are just building that business up so that sort of the volatility in some of the economic activity really doesn't have much of an impact on the launches? Yes.
There's 2 parts to that answer.
One is on the growth side.
No I think given where we start from and what we're building the GDP data that you see doesn't really -- maybe 10 years from now when we've scaled in a big way this will be a variable that somebody's talking to you guys about.
But it's not that critical to our overall success from a top line perspective.
That said some of the currency volatility does impact transaction have a transaction ForEx effect depending on what our sourcing strategies are in gross margin.
And we talked about currency being negative in gross margin.
It is in part related to that.
And this is something we have to actively manage.
It doesn't change our strategic intent.
It doesn't change our ambition or our inclination to invest to strategically build our brands.
We just have to manage it and cover that cost through that process.
And that's the kind of expectations we make of our leaders of the segments that they deliver the growth they play for the strategic outcome we're looking for while managing the transaction ForEx impact in their gross margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get a little bit more detail on the restructuring.
Clearly the detail that you gave in Europe was very helpful.
But can we expand that to total Newell? Can you talk about like what's been done to date how many distribution centers service centers manufacturing facilities you've exited as part of Project Renewal? We haven't put that together but I think that's actually a good idea for us to do.
And maybe we should get that organized for CAGNY.
We don't look at it that way.
We look at it by work stream.
So if you recall we talked about Project Renewal the next phase of Project Renewal having a series of work streams connected to it.
And we sort of organized our thinking around that.
But I think it's a good idea.
I have mentioned publicly some of the impacts on the top leadership tier of our organization.
And we've really flattened the structure of the company through this process and come a long way in doing that.
There's a little bit more work to do but the vast majority of that is now behind us.
But I think that's a good request.
And I think we should think about how to capture that maybe at CAGNY.
Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
The other question I had is with Baby now that it's been recharacterized and out of Incubate has anything changed in terms of the way that you think about the business as far as investment levels? Okay.
Yes I had talked about investable ideas and investable teams and given the progress we've made on margin in that business and I mean operating income margin so take a look at that segment's profitability this becomes an interesting business to invest in.
And we're growing on growth in the year-ago period.
It's an interesting category in that it's product innovation-driven and selling-driven.
And while we have an incredibly strong brand in Graco we haven't put a lot of A&amp;P behind it.
We need to think through about -- think through over time how -- whether the algorithm for growth that we've delivered is one that is -- that we can sustain without putting A&amp;P into the business.
And we'll explore that.
But our passion for this business has increased over the last couple of years as we've gotten the business sorted and that we've got a very good leadership team both in development and delivery on this business.
We've got -- we've strengthened our relationship with our supply partners.
I had dinner with them just a week ago.
And our customer coverage models and our partnering relationships have strengthened as well substantially under Kristie Juster's leadership.
So I talked about investable businesses and investable teams.
And this is one of them.
And I have some appetite to sustain this given what I -- given the answer I gave to Bill because with the low fixed investment in assets and the low working capital on this business we can create a ton of value if we grow it.
So yes it's interesting.
It doesn't change some of the structural issues I've raised in the past with it with respect to its potential in emerging markets.
Those markets are not developing at the speed you might think because of the fact that you need regulatory catalysts for that to occur.
So the emerging market opportunity while strategically out there still is probably a little bit further into the distance.
So that makes it less strategically attractive in the context of our overall agenda.
But because we've demonstrated the ability to capture share in our home markets so aggressively over the last 2 years there's opportunity to do more of that.
And you should expect us to continue to play for that portion of the market share growth in our home markets.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just one quick follow-up on that.
Is there opportunity for Baby &amp; Parenting margins to get closer to corporate average? Or is there something inherently specific about Baby &amp; Parenting that will hold its margins down relative to your ability to grow other product segments? Yes.
I think the big issue is that our supply partner takes a portion of those margins right? So because we don't have the fixed assets and we don't have the inventory they do.
And they charge us for that.
They cover that cost in the way that we get billed for the sourced volume we do.
And that shows up in gross margin.
And you should think of that as probably anywhere from 700 to 1 000 basis points of cost that we absorb in our P&amp;L.
So if we had our own fixed asset base that would be flowing to our P&amp;L directly but we don't.
There are a portion of those costs Olivia too though that they cover on our behalf that we categorize in SG&amp;A too.
Yes.
So I think there's -- yes this is an attractive business.
Again I'd look at this one through the lens of return on net assets as opposed to margin accretion.
And ideally I'd love to get more margin into the business but -- and we should be able to do that steadily as we have up until now.
But it's not mission-critical for this one to be above fleet average to me given that grown-up is well above fleet average.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
I know this call has been going on for a while here.
So I guess I wanted to go back first to price realization.
I think this is something you guys were looking for in the second quarter and didn't get.
And it sounds like you got some this quarter and hoping for a little more in the fourth quarter.
Is that a situation where you saw some of your competitors match your list price increases? Or is that easing up some of the merchandising activity that you saw last quarter? It's a blend of both.
I mean it's different by category.
And we end up with a price mix effect that flows through to this depending on segment contribution quarter in quarter out.
But we're pleased again with the fact that we deliver positive price.
And when we talk about positive price we're talking about invoice price net of customer investment that gets us to our price contribution to gross margin.
We expect to accelerate price in Q4 as a result of continued progress on invoice pricing flow-through and us continuing to manage the customer investment as effectively as we possibly can.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just secondly in terms of the Writing business obviously you're going to have a pretty big impact from the Depot-Max merger at some point.
If you just put that to the side for a second and just look at the office superstore channel obviously that's been weak for some time and continues to be weak.
Are those sales lost? Or are you recapturing those sales at Wal-Mart or Target or other channels for example? Yes.
We have very big growth outside of that channel.
And you see channel shifting happening.
So we've seen very good growth in places that you wouldn't traditionally think of as sources for Writing instruments.
And I think that will continue to happen that channel shifting as the office superstores sort through their strategic agenda and the balance of how much of their business is focused against commercial selling of writing instruments versus retail selling of writing instruments.
Your final question comes from the line of Taposh Bari with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A lot of detail on the call today.
I just wanted to ask you more of a kind of a holistic question on the U.S.
retail environment what you're seeing if you could comment through October in terms of sell-through how retailers in the form of your businesses are positioned inventory-wise.
That'd be great just because we've seen a lot of mixed headlines out there UPS I think put out some cautious commentary out there today.
No I haven't seen the UPS.
They're right down literally right down the street from us.
We don't see -- right now other than the dynamics that are playing out in the office superstore channel which is really related to their business model and changes they're making in their business model we don't see major dynamics out there in the rest of the portfolio or in the rest of the retail landscape.
There are always and I mean always issues out there with respect to inventory positions at different customers.
But there's nothing out there that I would highlight as being something strategic.
There's constant rebalancing that goes on.
If an event doesn't yield as much sell-through as you thought it would somebody's going to pull back.
But we don't see any indications of that in our numbers that there's some holistic strategic shift in inventory management.
And we look at it quite closely obviously because it has a pretty immediate revenue impact for us if there were.
The exception to that has to do with the office superstores and the challenges they're facing this year.
This concludes our question-and-answer period.
If we were unable to get to your question please call the Investor Relations team at (770) 418-7075.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for any concluding remarks.
Look as always I'd like to thank you for the challenging questions and the involvement in our business.
We feel pleased about the progress we're making.
And as always I feel like there's still plenty of work to go do.
So with that we look forward to talking to you at the end of January to provide a perspective on the full year results and also to provide 2014 guidance.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (855) 859-2056 domestically and (404) 537-3406 internationally with an access code of 74470822 starting 2 hours following the end of today's call.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events &amp; Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me today on the call are Mike Polk our President and CEO; and Doug Martin Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-Q as well as in the appendix to our press release.
Also during the call we will refer to non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP results may be found in the press release and on our website.
And with that let me turn the call over to Mike Polk.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
This morning we reported a strong set of Q4 results that represent our 10th consecutive quarter of consistent delivery.
Core sales grew 4.4% the highest quarterly sales growth in years.
Growth acceleration was due to new distribution wins a substantial increase in advertising support and improving innovation particularly on Baby Tools and Commercial Products.
The increased investment in advertising was funded primarily by overhead reductions related to Project Renewal resulting in normalized operating income of 12.2% equal to the prior year period.
Normalized earnings per share was $0.47 up 9.3% versus prior year and $0.01 ahead of consensus.
Operating cash flow was $304 million up 16% versus prior year.
Growth in the fourth quarter was broad based with all 4 geographic regions delivering increased core sales.
The U.S.
grew 3.5% ahead of market growth suggesting continued market share momentum.
Importantly our strategy of extending our geographic footprint into the faster-growing emerging markets continued to take hold as Latin America once again delivered strong double-digit growth with core sales up 32%.
4 of our 5 business segments grew core sales in the fourth quarter with Tools Commercial Products and Baby delivering very strong growth.
Tools core sales increased 8.1% driven by new distribution and strong innovation in Latin America.
We're off to a very good start with our extended Tool portfolio in Brazil which has gotten excellent distributor response.
Commercial Products increased core sales 8.2% as a result of broadened selling coverage in North America and Latin America and the global launch of our new Executive Series hospitality cleaning lines for luxury hotels.
Baby delivered outstanding core sales growth of 15% driven by stabilization of our business in EMEA and strong share gains and double-digit core sales growth in North America as a result of new distribution and new premium innovations.
These results are very promising and reflect the power of our brands and our new business model.
When we get innovation marketing and execution right we can build our categories and build our share.
Importantly Writing returned to growth delivering just over 2% core sales growth in the fourth quarter with good results on Sharpie and Paper Mate partially offset by the expected contraction in the North American office superstore channel.
Home Solutions core sales declined 1.2% as distribution gains on Calphalon and Goody were more than offset by a decline in Rubbermaid Consumer sales driven by timing of Black Friday shipments and increased customer programming costs.
So on balance a very strong quarter: 4.4% core sales growth; normalized EPS growth of over 9% $0.01 ahead of consensus; strong operating cash flow of $304 million up 16% versus last year; and nearly $400 million allocated to dividends and share repurchases.
All in are pretty good outcome and one we are very proud to have delivered.
Fourth quarter capped off a very good set of full year results.
We delivered sequential improvement in performance in 2012 -- 2013 versus 2012 meeting or beating the midpoint of all 4 full year guidance metrics.
Core sales grew 3.2% above the midpoint of our 2% to 4% guidance range despite beginning to exit parts of our EMEA business.
Normalized operating income margin increased 30 basis points to 13.3% above the top of our guidance range.
We were able to deliver this outcome while investing substantially in advertising and insights in the second half of the year.
Normalized EPS increased 9.6% to $1.83 near the top of our initial $1.78 to $1.84 guidance range and above the midpoint of our revised $1.80 to $1.84 guidance range.
Normalized EPS of $1.83 represents an all-time record high for Newell Rubbermaid.
Operating cash flow was $605 million above the midpoint of our guidance range of $575 million to $625 million despite making an incremental $50 million voluntary pension contribution in 2013.
Importantly our strong cash generative business coupled with the Hardware and Teach Platform disposal proceeds enabled us to allocate $644 million to dividends and share repurchases.
2013 has been a year of great progress for Newell.
We've established a consistent cadence of delivery while simultaneously executing a very big change agenda as we drive the Growth Game Plan into action.
In 2013 we deployed a new operating model which reorganized the company around its 2 core activity systems: brand development and commercial delivery.
Within the development pillar we established a global R&amp;D design insights and marketing organization that is focused exclusively on building the strategic growth agenda for each of our brands and categories.
Within the delivery pillar we consolidated 9 global business units and 2 business groups to 5 operating segments established a global supply chain function and we began to roll out our one-company Customer Development Organization or CDO to countries outside the U.S.
Our ambition with the CDO is to elevate our work with customers from transactional negotiations about distribution and merchandising to more strategic joint customer business plans that increase shopper involvement with our categories while collaboratively improving profitability for both Newell and our customers.
This new operating model has changed the nature of Newell Rubbermaid from a holding company of 9 individual businesses to an operating company where our 5 business segments leverage a strong set of functional capabilities organized and led across the company as a whole.
Our new marketing insight and design organizations are now working to drive a more robust innovation pipeline and bigger more impactful brand growth ideas as a result of significantly increased investments in consumer insights design marketing and e-commerce.
Our new global supply chain organization is strengthening our productivity funnel unlocking costs in sourcing and establishing a focused agenda to reduce our working capital while simultaneously strengthening our capabilities across all 5 supply chain disciplines of plan source make deliver and serve.
Our Customer Development Organization is broadening and deepening customer and channel reach through a one-company approach to customer and channel leadership using the resulting renewal savings to invest in increased retailer and distributor coverage and new capabilities in category management shopper insight and shopper marketing.
At the same time as we are changing the way we work as part of the new operating model we've begun to execute the next phase of the transformation of our EMEA business simplifying our footprint and reducing complexity in Europe with a goal of increasing profitability and focusing resources for growth against our most attractive country category sells.
We also successfully disposed about $300 million of revenue related to our former Hardware and Teach Platform businesses and began the process of recovering the retained costs associated with that sale.
Through this intense year of change people have stayed focused on delivering new growth ideas to market like Irwin's new expanded line of tools in Brazil; or Hilmor our new brand of HVAC tools and accessories in the U.S.; or Rubbermaid Commercial Products Executive Series line of cleaning products for luxury hotels around the world; like new Sharpie Neon markers; or year-2 support on Sharpie Metallic markers; or new breakthrough advertising on Paper Mate InkJoy; and new advertising on Irwin as part of the strengthened National Tradesmen Day; like new distribution on Calphalon in multiple retailers and a big new distribution win on Goody; or the tremendous execution around the Furious Five our first-ever set of corporate-scale merchandising events in the U.S.
Like the extensions of Rubbermaid LunchBlox food containers and the new line of beverage containers; or new Graco innovations like FastAction Fold Jogger and Modes 3-in-1 strollers.
These have been great wins in the marketplace delivered in the context of significant change.
So a very good 2013 one that we can all be proud of having delivered.
With that as an opening let me pass the call over to Doug for some more details on Q4 and the full year.
And then I'll return to provide perspective on 2014 after which we'll open the call for questions.
Doug? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'm going to briefly walk you through our Q4 results update you on our progress with Project Renewal and then take a minute to talk about cash flow and the balance sheet.
Newell's Q4 reported net sales were $1.49 billion which represents a 2.9% increase over the prior year.
Core sales which exclude the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange increased 4.4%.
Gross margin was 37.4%.
Pricing and productivity were offset by inflation and unfavorable mix in the quarter as a portion of our core sales growth was driven by businesses and regions with lower than fleet average gross margins.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $375 million or 25.2% of sales.
The composition of our expense continues to change.
We increased advertising and promotion expense by more than 20% including about $10 million for our InkJoy TV ad campaign which ran in the U.S.
Canada Mexico and Australia with very good POS results.
Product development expense which includes marketing R&amp;D and consumer insights was up almost 10%.
These significant increases behind brand support were funded through cost savings from Project Renewal and more disciplined overhead spend control.
Normalized operating margin was 12.2% unchanged from the prior year.
Reported operating margin was 10.7% compared with 10.5% in the prior year.
Interest expense was $15 million down nearly 14% versus prior year.
And our normalized tax rate was 19.4% compared with 20.5% a year ago.
Normalized earnings per share which excludes restructuring and restructuring-related costs were $0.47 a 9.3% increase from a year ago.
The increase was primarily attributable to the acceleration in core sales growth complemented by lower interest and tax expense this quarter and a lower share count.
Fourth quarter reported earnings per share were $0.41 compared with $0.35 last year.
We generated strong operating cash flow of $304.2 million during the quarter compared with $261.3 million in the prior year.
The increase over last year was driven primarily by improvements in net working capital.
We committed to returning $392.8 million to shareholders during the quarter including $42 million in dividends and $350.8 million for the repurchase of shares mostly under the accelerated share repurchase program announced in October.
The EPS impact of the share repurchase in the quarter was about $0.01.
Recall that under the $350 million ASP approximately 80% of the estimated total shares were delivered at the outset with the remainder to be delivered upon completion of the program in the first half of 2014.
Our $300 million open market share repurchase plan was suspended during Q4 and will return to active status this year.
We have $43 million available under that authorization which we intend to use by the middle of the year.
Turning now to our segments.
In our Writing segment reported net sales grew 0.5% to $433 million.
Core sales increased 2.1%.
Our Latin America Writing business continued to deliver strong growth more than 25% this quarter fueled by increased pricing and a strong back-to-school performance.
North America had good results outside of the office superstore channel with overall sales down slightly and EMEA trends were unchanged down mid-single digits.
Fourth quarter normalized operating margin in the Writing segment was 21.8% a 340 basis point improvement over year-ago results driven by pricing productivity and Project Renewal-related cost savings offset by increased advertising spend behind the InkJoy advertising campaign.
The Home Solutions segment fourth quarter net sales declined 1.9% to $423.9 million.
Core sales were down 1.2%.
Calphalon had another strong quarter driven by distribution gains as did Goody.
Rubbermaid Consumer sales were down modestly a portion of which was timing related.
As we mentioned last quarter we shipped some Black Friday merchandise earlier in the season than we did a year ago.
Home Solutions normalized operating margin was 13.7% an 80 basis point decline versus the prior year reflecting input cost inflation and increased customer programming costs partially offset by renewal savings.
The Tools segment delivered a second consecutive strong quarter with reported net sales growth of 5.3%.
Core sales growth was a very robust 8.1% largely attributable to our success in Brazil with our expanded product offering.
Both our innovative double-sided hacksaw launch and the expansion of the tool belt initiative have driven share and distribution gains in Brazil.
Normalized operating margin in Tools segment was 8.6% down versus last year's 11.4%.
This represents sequential margin improvement from Q3 as the initial launch costs of our Brazil expansion are behind us.
The decline versus a year ago was due to ongoing marketing and promotional expenses to support the growth initiative and increased selling and systems in Latin America and APAC.
We expect to realize further operating margin leverage in 2014 as we continue to drive top line growth the investment picking behind our Irwin brand.
Reported net sales in the Commercial Product segment gained 7.6% and core sales increased 8.2%.
I guess an easier comparison from a year ago we generated strong volume growth in both North America and Latin America this quarter driven by a favorable programming pricing and new innovation like the Executive Series and HYGEN Disposable Microfiber.
Operating margin for this segment was 7.6% down versus last year's 11.7% due to higher input cost inflation and advertising and promotional expense partially offset by pricing.
Our Baby segment had another stellar quarter its best this year.
Reported sales growth was 12.4% and core sales growth was 15%.
In North America we are winning against our competition and growing the category with distribution gains pricing and innovative new products across virtually all of our Graco platforms.
Q3 normalized operating margin was 9.4% up 250 basis points to last year largely the benefit of renewal cost savings and increased leverage partially offset by mix and transactional FX.
Looking at Q4 sales by geography.
North America grew 2.8% primarily as a result of strong performances from Baby and Commercial Products.
In EMEA core sales increased 1.1% attributable to sales growth from Tools Commercial Products and stabilization of the Baby business.
In Latin America core sales grew 32% driven by very strong results from all of our Win Bigger businesses.
And in Asia core sales increased 2.3% as we saw modest growth in Writing and Tools.
Developed world core sales grew approximately 2% driven primarily by a solid U.S.
growth rate of 3.5%.
Our emerging markets business grew approximately 17.3% attributable to very robust growth trends from Writing and Tools in Latin America.
Moving now to cost programs.
We continue to make good progress on Project Renewal.
And through the end of Q4 we are on plan having realized approximately $200 million in cumulative savings.
These cost savings enabled the branding capability investments this quarter and will enable more investment in 2014.
We expect these investments will drive accelerated core sales growth in our priority businesses and markets.
And lastly I want to take a moment to discuss cash flow and the balance sheet.
We generated $605 million in operating cash flow in 2013.
We generated another $190 million in proceeds principally from the sale of our Hardware and Teach businesses.
We spent $138 million on CapEx which was down about $40 million year-over-year partially driven by a smaller SAP investment.
We made an incremental $50 million voluntary contribution to our pension plans.
And we paid out $174 million in cash dividends and committed $470 million to repurchase shares through the combination of our ongoing open market authorization and the $350 million accelerated buyback plan.
That's a total of $644 million committed to shareholders in 2013.
At the same time we reduced our outstanding debt by $82 million and increased cash by $43 million.
As we exit the year our balance sheet is in a strong position.
We have $226 million in cash on hand and close to $1 billion in liquidity.
We have no long-term debt maturities until 2015.
And our debt-to-equity EBITDA multiple and interest coverage ratios are all very strong.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike for additional comments.
Thanks Doug.
While pleased with 2013 these are very early days.
We've not yet hit our full stride.
We are encouraged that our performance has accelerated at roughly the same time our change program has peaked.
I would not have predicted the degree to which this acceleration occurred in Q4 '13.
And while not ready to declare our ability to consistently deliver core growth at or above 4% we are all quite intrigued by what our Q4 results might imply about our ability to do so in the future.
As we emerge from this intense period of change our people can see the promise of the Growth Game Plan starting to come into focus.
And the energy this provides has started to build within the organization.
In this context we're well positioned to deliver another year of sequential improvement in performance in 2014.
The insights and research investments we've made through to 2013 are beginning to yield results.
Our development teams are placing over 50 unique concepts per month into tests and these concept test results are hitting positive strike rates of 70% to 80% which are way above our ingoing expectation and external norms.
These results confirm the strength of our brands that our categories are ready for innovation and that strength in innovation will unlock growth acceleration at Newell Rubbermaid.
Our 2014 growth plans pivot on fast-tracking innovation creating much stronger brand advertising driving continued distribution expansion and portfolio deployment and investing significantly more in advertising and promotion.
As we compare our 2014 plans to 2013 we begin to see real opportunity from the combined power of development and delivery.
In this context we have established the following full year guidance for 2014: core sales growth in the range of 3% to 4% despite the product line and geographic exits planned in EMEA and continued contraction of the office superstore channel in North America; normalized operating income margin expansion of up to 40 basis points despite a significant increase in brand spending; normalized EPS of $1.94 to $2 or 6% to 9% growth about 1 percentage point above the long-term guidance for the strategic phase of the Growth Game Plan; and operating cash flow of $600 million to $650 million.
Our geographic priorities remain the same in 2014: share growth in North America strong share and revenue growth in emerging markets with primary focus on Latin America growth in line with our markets in EMEA on our continuing businesses.
There are 2 dynamics that could influence our full year results.
The first is the speed with which we're able to increase advertising and promotion investment fueled by Project Renewal savings and gross margin improvement.
We are well on our way to deliver the savings promised as part of Project Renewal and 2014 will yield another big tranche.
We have a clear line of sight to savings related to the rollover of 2013 cost initiatives the EMEA transformation and 2014 plans to streamline our business partnering functions.
We should also take a step forward on gross margin.
To do so will require our execution on gross margin initiatives to improve in 2014.
We were not satisfied with the 2013 full year outcome.
Increasing traction from the global supply chain teams and the business segments on productivity and sourcing savings increased growth yield on customer programming connected to new joint business plans at our top customers and progress on price realization should result in gross margin increases for the overall company.
Project Renewal savings and gross margin increases will fuel a significant step-up in advertising and promotion investment.
When coupled with the strengthening innovation and brand marketing plans the increased investment in brand support should drive a sequential improvement in growth despite the growth headwinds connected to the product line and geographic exits in EMEA and expected contraction in the North American office superstore channel.
The second dynamic that could impact the results is the macro environment in emerging markets.
We continue to believe our momentum in the emerging markets is more dependent on our actions rather than the macros and our guidance does not contemplate any big disruptions in our emerging markets in 2014.
We believe this is the right assumption to make given our limited exposure to the most volatile markets.
Our largest exposure is in Venezuela on our Writing business.
I want to take a quick moment to comment on phasing through the year.
There are 3 factors that could influence the quarterly flow of our growth in earnings in 2014: First is the impact of the prior year SAP conversion in Brazil which resulted in just over $5 million of sales being pulled forward from Q2 2013 into Q1 2013 primarily on our Tools business.
This SAP-related timing shift will depress total Newell Q1 core sales growth by about 40 basis points.
This shift in revenue and gross profit into Q1 from Q2 when coupled with a $0.03 EPS onetime tax benefit in Q1 2013 creates a year-ago EPS headwind of about $0.035 in Q1 2014.
The second factor to impact quarterly phasing will occur between Q3 and Q4 2014 and is also SAP-conversion related.
We plan to go live with SAP in Mexico and Venezuela on October 1 2014.
This will result in a larger shift of revenue and earnings from Q4 to Q3 2014 than was experienced in the Brazil launch of SAP.
The third factor that will impact the quarterly flow of results is the pacing of EMEA product line and geographic exits in 2014.
As you recall we said we plan to exit about $25 million of business in EMEA this year.
The majority of the year-over-year negative core growth impact will likely occur in the first half of 2014.
While these exits will impact our growth rates in 2014 we do not expect a material EPS impact given the very low profitability of these exits and the release of structural costs these exits enable.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance the net effect of these shifts will put pressure on growth rates in Q1 and Q4 with core growth rates in both quarters likely towards the lower end of our full year guidance range; and growth rates in Q2 and Q3 in the top half of the full year guidance range.
Our quarterly EPS growth rates will generally flow with top line growth with the toughest quarter for EPS growth in Q1 2014 as a result of the $0.035 headwind related to both the impact of SAP timing and the onetime tax benefit from prior year.
I often talk about the difficulty of driving delivery while simultaneously driving change.
In 2013 our people did a terrific job of doing just that.
They delivered sequential improvement in performance and our results were at or above the midpoint of all of our full year guidance ranges.
Doing what we said we were going to do in the face of tremendous change makes us all very proud.
The Growth Game Plan is a strategic road map designed to unlock the true potential of our business our leading brands and our people.
And this past year demonstrates there's great opportunity for both -- for Newell both in the short and longer term.
Our growth acceleration will always come from the strength of our brand plans and the quality of our execution.
We've achieved strong developed world growth ahead of many peers.
With a U.S.
2-year compound annual growth rate of 3.2% we're proving we can win share consistently and grow our categories.
We've begun to more strategically deploy our portfolio to the faster-growing emerging markets: first south to Latin America; and over time east to Asia.
On the heels of nearly 15% core growth in Latin America in 2012 we accelerated core sales growth to over 25% in 2013.
What's more exciting than any of the numbers is the knowledge of what is still to come.
My entire executive leadership team is either new to the company or new in role in the last 18 months and they're focused on building the long-term full potential of our company.
Our people have signed up to the Growth Game Plan and are driving change on the core activity systems of the business which means we now work on the most important things in more focused ways with materially greater resources on our key priorities.
Whether I look at the building innovation pipeline establishing a global supply chain deepening customer partnerships or building new businesses like e-commerce we have many many activities and projects in place today that simply did not exist a year ago.
And importantly we haven't begun to capture the commercial value of these initiatives.
My confidence in a stronger 2014 and further improvement in 2015 is based on this: Of course it won't be easy; of course it will require everything our people have to give; and of course there are all kinds of challenges that will get in the way.
That said our people have proven they can drive delivery while simultaneously driving change.
I'm proud of what they've achieved in the last 10 quarters and I'm excited by what I see ahead.
The Growth Game Plan is our road map.
Its promise is increasingly becoming a reality.
And with that I'd like to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from John Faucher with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk a little bit about the Baby care business and obviously phenomenal performance here.
And I guess as we look out at the impact on this -- of this business on the margins is there something you guys can do within the cost saves program to make this less of a drag? Or is it something that you can do from a regional mix standpoint? Or is this just one of those things whenever you gain kind of share within these categories it's going to drag the overall gross margin down? John great question.
This business is a really interesting one and it's different from our others in that the vast majority of the finished goods are sourced.
And with that becomes a gross margin penalty you pay but also comes a benefit in the lack of fixed assets.
And so if you look at this business on the 3 dimensions that I like to think about businesses whether it's growth potential margin potential or the ability to create value this is a very interesting business now that we've attacked the structural costs associated with it.
We can create a lot of value if we grow this business because of the high -- relatively high return on net assets or return on invested capital we have because we don't have the fixed assets of the working capital.
So it's a very interesting business in this sense.
Of course to do that we have to accept the mix negative that comes with gross margin.
Interestingly enough if you look at the P&amp;L all the way down to operating income margin which you guys have visibility to now and you look back a couple of years at the progress we've made you see tremendous progress in operating income margin.
And we're getting close to where we think we can be to not have it be dilutive long term if we grow.
Now there are some geographic mix benefits if we have those -- if we can grow Japan we get a mix benefit.
But we have to accept some gross margin dilution when we deliver these kind of growth rates to the total company.
Now the key for any one of our businesses is for each one of those segments to deliver gross margin improvement year-over-year.
We have to accept the mix negative if one of -- at the corporate level if one of those businesses is going to disproportionately grow.
But each business should be able to drive their gross margin up year-on-year every year and that's the discipline we need to build into our company.
John I would say that it's a work in progress with respect to gross margin delivery.
I think we're not yet there in terms of our ability to kind of consistently deliver steady increases and we're working on it.
The supply chain -- the global supply chain will help a lot better discipline around pricing will help a lot and active mix management will help a lot.
But this is an opportunity that's still in front of us.
Your next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
I was really encouraged by the core growth of most of the segments -- core sales growth but we're really not used to seeing this from Newell as I know you know.
So the question is do you think the company's capabilities are such that you can now grow year-over-year on such strong results? Or do you need a little bit more time? And the strong core sales growth in this year's fourth quarter is next year's tough comp? I think my comments in the conversation about not yet being ready to deliver consistently around 4% growth are right.
I think the way I think about 2014 is we're driving our new operating model to speed and part of that is about accelerating impact of the 4 winning capabilities that we're investing in whether it's design whether it's marketing and insights whether it's customer development or supply chain.
And so as those capabilities strengthen and they will progressively through the year and as we get a greater yield on the investment the output starts to strengthen.
Then I think we have -- it's certainly within reach to believe that we can grow on growth.
Do I think Q4 will be a difficult quarter next year? Yes.
But every quarter is a difficult quarter.
So I'm not willing to concede that we can't deliver solid growth in Q4 in our guidance range against a tough comp.
We've got plenty of time to kind of figure that out.
And while we will be impacting Q4 '14 by the SAP pull-forward into Q3 if we adjust for that I think we ought to be able to deliver in the range.
And I think it would be premature to kind of aim off.
I think the way to think about our business in general is that we're making sequential improvements and that we should see increasingly -- you should see increasing visibility to the impact of the capability investments we're making.
And to the degree that we're able to continue to attack the structural costs and get those costs out and manage gross margins for increases you see a convergence between better ideas and capabilities and their impact on the business with better affordability in the P&amp;L to invest behind our brands.
And that's the thing that will drive the acceleration phase of the Growth Game Plan.
I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves.
Because as you recall we just put this organization in place this year and we're -- it's a new way of working and we're bringing that new operating model to speed.
But you can sense the opportunity in the framework that I just laid out.
And it will all come down to execution and great leadership and our people understanding the opportunity for the upside.
That's helpful.
Can I ask a question on Latin America? Sure.
The 32% increase how much of that was attributable to Venezuela where you have pricing power? I know it's a small business but that is a factor.
And if the currency devalues what do you think the impact on you is at 50%? I'll handle one part of that Connie and then I'll pass it to Doug.
So pricing certainly was a factor on our Writing business.
We -- I don't -- I'm reluctant to kind of call out a specific number but it's a material number for both Writing and for the overall company.
Although the big driver of growth in Latin America this year was our Tools business and Commercial Products business.
As you recall we strengthened the selling system on Commercial Products.
And then Tools we've made big innovation and selling investments in Brazil and we're extending those investments to other markets.
So pricing for sure was a factor but -- and a meaningful one.
So I don't want to discount the observation but there are other things that play as well.
Connie on Venezuela we've got about $87 million of cash on the balance sheet in Venezuela at the end of the year.
So a 10% movement there is about $9 million either up or down.
And we haven't at this point built anything into our plan from a devaluation perspective.
We've been listening to the President's speeches and trying to get as much clarity as we can around what the next steps may be but we're holding course right now there.
So I would look for a 10% devaluation would move revenue by somewhere in the neighborhood of $8 million and income somewhere in the neighborhood of $4 million.
Your next question comes from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I want to start off with the OfficeMax-Office Depot merger.
You guys alluded to it a couple times this morning but didn't give any specifics.
So I assume you're still comfortable with the impact you laid out a couple of quarters ago which is about a 30 to 50 basis point drag on the top line -- I'm sorry on EPS about $0.02 to $0.04? Yes and that's built into our guidance Joe.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then in terms of Project Renewal is the incremental savings there peaking in '14? Or did you see the peak in '13? No Joe.
I would say that '13 and '14 overall are -- '13 was a little bit heavier than '14 will be.
So we'll begin a bit of a decline and then finish it out in 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
One last one in terms of mix.
Do you expect mix to be positive for gross margin in 2014 or less of a drag in '13? It depends on how our Baby business plays out.
We've assumed a little bit of a positive mix in our gross margin.
But because we see a stronger Writing business in 2014 than we had in 2013 which will mix us up.
But if Baby delivers another year like this year which we have not planned we believe Baby is probably sort of mid-single digits because it will be difficult to replicate double-digit growth on the full year.
But if it does if it surprises us on the upside we'll have that continuing pressure on mix.
But we have not built that into our plan.
Because Writing strengthens in '14 versus '13 we see a slight mix benefit in gross margin.
Next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> First one one quick question on Asia and then my real question.
On Asia you mentioned that you're up on some growth in Writing now.
Have you turned the quarter in terms of Asia Fine Writing? Or is this just a lapping of the previous losses? And then on my second question I wanted to ask a little bit about the thoughts on the macro environment.
And given what looks to be a little bit of a tougher backdrop can you talk a little bit about your innovation plans for 2014 as well as your spending flexibility? Because it sounds like you're pretty excited about your innovation pipeline for next year and I assume it wasn't an accident that you didn't name any specific new products.
But how do the price points and margins on the new products range relative to your existing product portfolio? And then on top of that can you talk about the flexibility to turn on and off spending should conditions worsen and you actually need some of that flex? So our Writing -- our business in general responded pretty well in Asia in the fourth quarter.
It's actually driven more by back-to-school programming in Australia New Zealand than by a recovery of our Writing business in China.
Quite frankly I think the luxury goods market is going to be -- continue to be sluggish there.
And while our basic issues on route to market are behind us the overall market conditions aren't great at the moment.
And by the way we're leaning into investments there.
Our focus on investments today are in Latin America.
In the future we'll lean into Asia.
So just to be clear on Asia Pacific.
Good job by our team in Australia and New Zealand around back-to-school.
Remember it's kind of seasonal there.
Back-to-school is in December in Australia and New Zealand.
On our Writing business in general I'm -- I think we've got a stronger set of plans in 2014 both from an innovation and brand support perspective.
We've got innovation and brand support planned on Paper Mate Sharpie Expo Waterman Parker and rOtring.
So we've got a full lineup.
And even Mr.
Sketch our sort of long-neglected scented jewel of a kids brand has growth plans in place.
So we expect our Writing business to deliver better growth in '14 than in '13.
But our growth is going to continue to be tempered by this contraction in the office superstore channel in North America.
Remember we're exiting our Fine Writing marketing and gifting business in Europe.
And the slower recovery in our luxury goods -- in the luxury goods market in China will temper the upside on Fine Writing in China despite the fact that we have a stronger innovation pipeline.
Olivia I'm going to hold off on giving you specifics on innovation.
We're going to talk about some of this and bring -- shine a bright light on it when I'm with you all at CAGNY.
But its a -- I would characterize our innovation funnel as a stronger funnel.
I wouldn't characterize it as a funnel that's up to its full potential yet.
I think it takes us through '14 to '15 before we see the full value of the investments we're making in new capabilities in innovation in design and marketing to hit the marketplace.
So 2014 should be a stronger year a year of sequential improvement with respect to the strategic ideas we're bringing to market but 2015 and beyond is where you'll really see us hit our stride.
On your final question Olivia on spending flexibility yes we do continue to increase spending flexibility across the P&amp;L which is exactly what Renewal was designed to do.
So we have less fixed cost overall and more variable cost across the P&amp;L.
Your next question comes from Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
So just following up on Olivia's questions just on the consumer it seems like Newell bucked the trend this quarter relative to most companies out there in terms of top line.
So I'm just curious Mike if you could talk about the underlying category growth rates? Or are you seeing any tailwinds from any recovery in construction or what have you in just the general economies around the world? And then how much is really driven by just innovation and distribution gains? So if you could just help us tease out the 2 that would be really helpful.
Yes Nik I really believe that our ideas will always trump the macros.
So I do think that it's -- whether it's in the brand work or in the innovation work or the work we're doing -- Bill Burke leads with his delivery organization to strengthen execution.
Those things are going to create more traction and more upside for us than sort of either macro tailwinds or headwinds.
Now that said I do think that our Tools business and our Commercial Products business are benefiting a bit from the North American recovery.
Some of the things you see out of the home retailers I think certainly are benefiting us.
We've seen stabilization in our Dcor business.
I think that could be connected although we can't draw a direct link to the housing market.
And so I think that our attitude about the markets is -- our concern about markets are moderating.
Our assumptions on market growth rates are basically the same as they were this year.
And where is the opportunity and the risk? The risk is in emerging markets.
But again there I'm quite clear that it's what we do as opposed to what the macros do that will define our trajectory.
In North America we haven't planned for any more of a recovery than what we've seen in the second half of the year.
So if there is an upside to the economy that could help.
And in Europe we've assumed a more-of-the-same outlook.
Despite all the headlines I read I just don't see that playing through in our businesses right now.
And we're not investing to create a catalyst yet to cause that to occur.
So our outlook for market growth is more of the same.
It's not market acceleration.
And while there's a lot of news around emerging markets these days it's actually much more about what initiative we take as opposed to what the market growth rates look like.
Witness our results in Brazil over the last 2 years despite a really choppy economic environment.
And so I guess that's how I'd answer that question.
We don't really typically provide market growth data Nik because unlike fast-moving consumer goods where syndicated data is clean and clear in consumer durables it's a little bit tougher to get a read on that.
You have to piece it together.
And I'm not sure it's as useful as our growth rates in terms of getting a sense for how things are going.
I look at GDP growth.
We're growing ahead of GDP in the fourth quarter which is great.
Same thing in the second -- in the third quarter in the U.S.
and I think those are positive indicators.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And just Mike following up on your comment about Europe.
I'm suspecting that the Fine Writing business in Europe continues to be under pressure.
I just want to confirm that.
Yes.
I think that more of the same is the right outlook for it but we're doing a lot of work on our brands now on Parker and on Waterman and on rOtring.
And while 2014 may not be the year where we turn the corner in Europe on Fine Writing the kind of ideas that I see coming that are in early development are really exciting and promising.
And so I take a very long view on all these businesses.
I can get into the quarterly and monthly and daily numbers like anybody else.
But when it comes to our brands I've got to take sort of a longer view.
And I like what I'm seeing on Fine Writing.
And that has to transpose into growth in Europe at some point in the future probably not until '15.
Your next question comes from Jason Gere with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to delve a little bit deeper into Project Renewal.
And obviously when you set this out years ago it provided you the flexibility to make the right investments especially as you expand into some of the new emerging markets.
Can you talk about where you've actually seen the cost of doing business maybe a little bit greater than you've anticipated? And then on the same point with some of the A&amp;P spending as you're starting to hit your stride where do you feel that you're getting the right returns on some of that spending now? Because I guess the question is is that the next couple of years we'll still see a little bit of margin expansion come through but I'm just wondering at what point do you start to see that you've got the right level of investments or spending in these markets that a lot of the additional cost savings that should come through from Project Renewal especially probably as it gets its next legs of growth will kind of flow through to the bottom line? So I was just wondering if you could provide a little bit of context on what's kind of changed over the last 2 years? Look we -- I think we've shown over the last couple of years that we've struck a balance between investing for accelerated performance on the top line and delivering steady margin improvement -- operating income margin improvement.
And you should hold us accountable for continuing to do both.
That's why we've guided the way we have.
And in fact we've taken the operating income margin the top end of the operating income margin guidance range up from 20 basis points in '13 to 40 basis points in '14.
So we want to have that discipline that governor on the choices we're making because we want to build a sustainable and profitable -- increasingly profitable business.
So you should expect us and hold us accountable for that.
There are things that have surprised us on the upside over the last 2.5 years.
Baby would be a great example of it where we've both been able to get cost out in a profound way -- look at the operating income margin progression on that business -- while significantly accelerating the growth rate and scaling the business.
So creating a ton of value on that business over 2.5 years.
That's been a pleasant and positive surprise.
There have been challenges in other businesses.
We've got a tough business in Rubbermaid Consumer where there's very limited market growth.
And quite frankly we haven't brought the right kind of innovation to market to value up that category.
And as a result there's always competitive intensity there.
The cost of growth in Rubbermaid Consumer is high.
And we referenced that when we talked about customer programming costs.
So we've got to pull different levers in that business for the kind of outcomes we seek which is strategic growth sustainable growth differentiated product propositions better innovation.
Things that will allow us to create more value and strengthen the Rubbermaid brand.
That's going to be -- that is a lot of work.
And it's a challenge.
And it's going to take time for us to -- probably a little bit more time than we originally thought to really crack the code there.
We love Rubbermaid.
We love that brand.
It's powerful.
Its positioning is very strong.
When life's in order you're free to live it.
It's a promise of organization and helping you deal with the more mundane things in life so you're free to do the more important things.
And so that's a very powerful brand and we can unlock that.
But it's going to require real innovation that's differentiated.
We're working on that.
But that's a longer -- that's going to take a little bit longer I think than we anticipated and may cost us a little bit more than we originally contemplated in human capital and in research investment.
So I think there's movements in both directions.
I think the -- both positive surprises and then some more challenging situations.
We have to be very disciplined in how we extend our footprint into the emerging markets because there's a cost of growth that hits you in structural cost selling expense research expense.
And you have to make those investments in order to build a sustainable extended footprint.
That's not a surprise.
But we need to retain the discipline associated with doing that and not opening up too many fronts at once.
Because otherwise we would compromise our commitment on margin expansion as we grow.
And so that's a discipline that needs to stay in place has been in place needs to stay in place so that we're not intoxicated by the upside in growth but at a cost to margin.
So Jason I don't know if that really answers your question.
I'm sort of avoiding giving you too many specifics but kind of giving you 3 different examples of things that require us to be thoughtful as we think about resource deployment.
Research Division</strong> No no it definitely gives good context.
And I guess just a follow-up.
As you think about your cash flow and I think 2015 when you start to feel a lot of that cash flow build and I know there is like I think $1.5 billion of unallocated cash flow that you guys have talked about in the past.
So as you talk about some of the -- having the discipline I guess the question is will -- should we expect to see you make more investments into the emerging markets with some of that unallocated cash flow? Or should we look at the things like -- that you have been kind of doing along the way which is the buyback and the dividends and maybe even thinking about acquisitions? So just wondering about the operating versus kind of what I would call the nonoperating side of things and the use of the cash flow as you kind of move forward over the next couple of years? Yes.
The chart you're referring to is the chart we presented at CAGNY 2012.
And we'll update that in a couple of weeks when we're together to give you kind of a forward-looking view through -- what did we say Doug through 2018? And obviously a big chunk of our use of cash over the last few years has been restructuring-related.
And that starts to come down over this timeframe.
I think that chart also was a little bit too loose on the amount of CapEx that we were planning on spending.
I think that chart had us -- that model had us spending about $200 million a year.
We don't think we're going to need to do that.
But we're working on the next version of that that gives you another 5-year view forward.
And it's very exciting.
So this is a -- and it doesn't presume major progress on working capital in what we'll present.
So it gives us lots of options.
So your question on capital allocation we're going to have lots of optionality around that.
And of course once we get through this change program we're going to want to think about growth not just organically but also about complementing that organic agenda with an external development agenda kind of focused in the 5 businesses we have.
In terms Jason of whether we would begin or increase investing over plans in markets in some of our emerging markets I think you need to link the accumulation of cash on the balance sheet or generation of cash over time with the strategic growth objectives that we set out on the bottom line.
So the P&amp;L will continue to govern what we invest so that we continue to increase and deliver operating income to the shareholders.
Your next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things so 2 kind of housekeeping things.
One was were there any exits in EMEA in the quarter that depressed core sales or not? And then the second was just expectations for the tax rate in 2014.
Yes.
So Lauren on EMEA we made -- we started to exit businesses in Q3.
So obviously there's a flow-forward effect of those choices.
And we will continue to exit businesses in Q1 and Q2.
So there'll be incremental choices that will begin to be affected.
But yes there was an impact in Q4.
We haven't called it out specifically as to what it is.
I think we have to figure out how to deal with our choices to exit businesses in the context of our core sales commitments.
So it's not really that.
I gave you a headline number of $25 million.
We got to figure out how to cover that in our numbers.
That's our philosophy about it.
And so we haven't -- we're not going to call them out by quarter.
But yes there was the rollover effect of Q3 exits into Q4.
And there'll be new exits in Q1 and new exits in Q2 that will roll forward through '14.
The tax rate Lauren was -- you should model between 24% and 25%.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just curious about the mention of the customer -- I guess 2 things.
One was the kind of increase in customer programming costs in the fourth quarter for Home Solutions.
Is that something that persists? Was it a seasonal issue? Was it a specific retailer? That was one.
And the second thing was just any impact from the further J.C.
Penney closures? And then that would be the negative or the positive of the home section reset again that they have coming? On customer programming cost it's our most competitive.
Rubbermaid Consumer is our most competitive category and particularly in a couple of the product lines.
And we have yet to figure out how to crack the code.
And it's going to take innovation to break the cycle.
So we've got to cover those costs with productivity with an attempt at mix management through the more profitable product lines within that portfolio.
The fact that we shipped volume that was consumed in Q4 in Q3 but we spent money to drive that consumption in Q4 is in part contributing to the comment that we've made.
But this is a strategic issue for us.
We just have not invested enough in differentiating in particular the storage portion of our Rubbermaid Consumer brand.
We've got great differentiation in food and beverage containers.
We've got it in garage organization.
We've got it in a lot of places but not in that big center of that brand.
And we've got to work on that.
And until we solve that and figure out how to get more of a growth yield for the investments we're making through our customers we're going to always be tight on that particular piece of our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that sounds like though the particular call out in the quarter notwithstanding that it's just a tough spot was -- some of it was related to the timing shift of spending versus shipping? The volume was in Q3.
The spending was in Q4.
You get a penalty.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
It wasn't a change in what customers were asking for or something like that in a particular quarter? There's always -- on that business it's always a battle.
Did you win the merchandising or did you lose the merchandising to your key competitor? But not -- that wasn't the big issue.
The big issue was the linkage of the revenue stream and then the overlay of cost in the drive period.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just the J.C.
Penney question.
On J.C.
Penney actually last year was a good year for us at J.C.
Penney.
I mean Calphalon responded.
Dcor stabilized.
Calphalon had a phenomenal year at J.C.
Penney.
So I think they've got different issues that they're wrestling with.
The home reset was a positive for us.
So we had a good year at J.C.
Penney from a growth perspective.
And they're wrestling with all their other issues.
But in the context of that they've been good partners on the merchandising side in the...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So not a worry from the -- is it material or not I guess if they're closing doors in 2014 and resetting home again? It took such a step back in 2011 and early 2012 that it -- that we'll be able to work through that.
Your next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of housekeeping items.
What do you think the share count is going to be for the full year next year? And does it vary quarter-by-quarter? It should be about 285 million Bill and it will be relatively stable throughout the year.
As you know on the ASP that we launched in the fourth quarter we got about 80% of those shares in at that time.
So that -- about 2/3 of that is reflected in the share count at year end.
We'll get the remaining shares in through the first half of the year and we'll settle those out with the -- we'll settle those out at a weighted average cost of buying those.
So we don't know exactly how many shares we're going to get in.
But once that settles in we'll be pretty flat.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just in terms of operating cash flow.
Based on your guidance and what you did in the last couple of years it seems like it's been flat.
And I know there are some pension contributions.
And obviously there's an overhang from the cash restructuring that's already been accrued that comes out later.
But is it conservative for next year? I don't know if you need another pension step up or what? We don't have another pension contribution in there but we do have $50 million to $60 million of cash taxes that are likely to fall into next year which is why you don't see a more significant step up.
Research Division</strong> So they pulled forward from '13 and then move into '14? It's not pull forward.
It's just timing of when payments are made.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just as you look at the P&amp;L I mean shouldn't you have that sort of big onetime step up in SAP benefits coming in 2014? That was always the promise but we kind of never talk about it anymore.
So then in addition to that the year-over-year pension costs the P&amp;L-realized pension costs shouldn't those also come down in 2014? On the first one we should be peaking on the amortization line in '14 on SAP.
Remember we continued -- we did EMEA and then we continued on to Brazil and we'll finish out Latin America.
And the cost of each of those implementations goes down.
So you will see a benefit over time.
It won't be in '14 though.
And then -- I'm sorry Bill what was the second one? Research Division</strong> The second one was just the...
Pension cost.
Research Division</strong> The pension cost on the P&amp;L the period ended cost? We're a little over 90% funded now on our U.S.
pension plans.
And the mix of our investments at that trigger point is changing to a slightly more conservative allocation across the asset base given where our funding levels are and what our population of retirees look like and when they'll retire.
So that we've shifted the mix a little bit there.
So I wouldn't expect a big improvement in pension cost this year.
Bill one build on the SAP comment because Doug's talking about the IT costs associated with SAP and the impact of lessening depreciation and amortization expense over time starting '15 forward.
That's all true.
And that's good.
And that gives us flexibility in our structural cost.
The real upside is still in front of us though in terms of mining SAP to unlock -- and I think the benefit will come in working capital.
But we see good value coming out already in sourcing in direct sourcing as a result of visibility.
But the real value over time will come out in a better appreciation of the cost of complexity in our business model.
And we're going to learn very quickly as we continue the analysis that we have a whole bunch of hidden costs.
In marrying the supply chain they're going to get their arms around that.
Again I don't think it's a '14 benefit.
I think working capital becomes a big -- we do all the analytics.
We roadmap.
We game plan in '14 for '15 progress.
But yes I think there is upside in what we've been able to glean out of the investments we've made there.
And we're going to go after it.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just a strategic question.
Can you just tell us a sort of sneak peak of the 10-K and tell us how much Wal-Mart sales were up year-over-year and kind of what drove that? And then if there's been any competitive response because obviously the category growth rates are still pretty dire.
So it's almost all market share and distribution gains.
So can you just talk about any sort of...
Yes.
I mean I'll give you a headline.
I won't give you their growth contribution to our total company but you'll see that shortly.
Our growth at Wal-Mart was ahead of their market growth last year.
We just -- we just had a big top-to-top in November there.
And so we had a good year with Wal-Mart based on broadened distribution and good shopper marketing implementation just overall better execution across the footprint.
So it was a stronger year in 2013 versus 2012.
And you should probably see their contribution to our overall results go up a bit although we won't see the final final numbers for a bit.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then it's kind of zero-sum there.
So have you seen any sort of competitive response to some of the distribution gains? Because it's not like they're expanding your categories on the shelf? So our market -- I think that some of the things we're doing is expanding some of our market growth rate.
Certainly on Baby that's true.
And so we're not just share shifting I don't think.
Our commitment is to collaborate to expand the relevance of these categories and consumer involvement with them.
So things like Sharpie Neon and Sharpie Metallic which are premium offerings that drives value into the category.
Of course we get share gains from it but it drives value into the category.
Same thing with what we're doing on Graco in North America.
We're not doing it consistently well across everyone of our businesses but that's the opportunity.
Clearly there are landscape shifts that are happening across the retail world.
We've talked a lot about the contraction in the office superstore channel particularly on the retail side of their business not the commercial side of their business.
And that's market share that's up for grab.
And people are grabbing for it as the office superstore guys pull back from that direct-to-consumer selling.
So there's clearly shifting going on.
And there's shifting going on with respect to e-commerce procurement.
So consumers are shopping online more and more every year.
And our commitment is to reach them where they shop.
Now all of our partners are building out their platforms to capture that and hold that within their box but there is some dynamics underway there as well.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just one last one.
Promotional spending efficiency it hasn't been a priority yet I guess.
And it seems like there's a lot more trade spending right now almost in response to some of the weakness on the Rubbermaid home side.
But when does that start getting looked at and coming through? Well I think we're looking at it big time now.
And we've just changed a couple of elements of our go-to-market program as of 1/1/14.
It simplifies our trade terms.
And we're going to continue to work on this as part of our -- what we call Collaborative Growth Plus which is the program that we will bring to market through the new CDO.
And we have got to strengthen the growth yield for the investments we're making there.
And we're making up -- we can spend a lot of money between our invoice price and our net price.
And we want to work together with our retailers to put -- our retail partners to put that money to work to drive category expansion and not just have it -- subsidized tactics that don't yield the kind of trial and repeat we're hoping to generate in our businesses.
It's going to take time to do that.
Part of that is in the design of the program.
Part of that is in the behaviors of our selling teams and the kind of joint customer business planning that gets done.
We've -- I've been at 2 top-to-tops over the last 2 months at some of our biggest customers.
And we got 30 people in the room and they've got 30 people in the room.
And then we break off into breakout rooms where people are getting into that type of conversation.
Are we promising a great yield on that in any of the numbers yet? No but should we -- should you expect us to over time? Yes.
Research Division</strong> I mean I don't want to put you on the spot here but couldn't that be as efficacious as the Project Renewal savings just given the magnitude of the trade spending that you guys throw out there? Possibly.
Your next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess Mike a couple of things.
So you're saying categories now are ready for innovation.
You're saying a factor on the top line now is how fast you can get money into advertising.
It's a little -- it's a lot different than what you'd said before.
And I think it's an evolution right? And so you clearly -- you seem to believe more that innovation and marketing matter in these categories.
And I know you've believed it before too but seemingly more so.
So I guess the question is if that 4.4% core that you guys did this quarter that intrigued you right for the forward look isn't necessarily sustainable right now why would that be? What would cause it to kind of come back down? Like where are there things that aren't sustainable? And I guess Baby is a start? Well I mean we're going to be growing on growth on a couple of our big categories.
So the question can you sustain the growth rates as you do that? Baby could surprise us again.
I don't know.
We've got a good plan.
We're actually working on '15 innovation on Baby now.
So their plan is set.
It's set to be executed.
The question is do we get the consumption yield on it? And time will tell.
We were able to invest a lot of money in the fourth quarter on the back of some onetime benefits that we saw -- had modest sight to once we got into the quarter and on the basis of some momentum in the top line that we didn't expect to see in October and November.
So we fueled sort of a virtuous cycle.
If you get that top line going and you're able to do it with decent margins it fuels investment firepower.
And we had that working for us in Q4.
What will keep us from sustaining that level of support? There are 3 things really.
It's gross margin ensuring we generate the gross margin improvement.
And the -- I think we're quite confident on Renewal savings but gross margin delivery the step-up that we would like to see that's something we got to manage and watch and see how that progresses because that will fuel a significant portion of the investment whereas that wasn't necessarily the big driver in Q4.
So we need that to happen.
And then we have to accept the fact that we're making choices for the sake of the overall financial health of the company to exit some businesses in Europe which will be a drag on growth.
And we have the reality of the office superstore contraction which will -- and specifically the Depot-Max consolidation which has really not yet begun in earnest.
I think that's still in front of us.
So those are the things that we steer into that give us some concern.
We will continue to work hard to manage growth and profitability in Home Solutions.
So we delivered good growth in Home Solutions on the full year but I wasn't thrilled with the kind of margin delivery in that business in particular within Rubbermaid Consumer.
And so we've got to strike the right balance between both growth and profitability there.
We've got to find the means to do that and even if that causes us to back down on growth rates coming into this year.
Now that doesn't explain why Q4 comes off but it is a variable that's going to be out there and it's going to influence our thinking on choices we make.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just I guess switching gears just real quick to the tax rate.
So a couple of things I guess.
Doug what's going on? It's very low.
Obviously it was low this quarter.
What's the right sustainable rate? And that 24% 25% 2014 I mean is that before any potential sort of goodies that you end up running through there right? So it -- because right now it would be a $0.05 year-on-year drag on '13 to '14.
And do you think you will have to offset that $0.05 drag? Or do you think there's sort of a -- by the time you end up reporting the year the tax rate ends up being actually lower than that range? Yes Chris I think we'll clearly have to offset that drag but more likely in other parts of the business than in the tax line.
And it's as you know very difficult to predict when resolution of tax issues occur.
So to the extent that we have reserves on the balance sheet that are favorably resolved during the year you're going to see period tax benefits.
And to the extent that they're unfavorably resolved you'll see a period tax hit.
So I think 24% to 25% is a good range over time to manage to for the business given the planning we have in place.
In Q4 specifically Chris we had -- as we got into the fourth quarter we've been negotiating with -- to resolve a number of state tax issues throughout the back half of the year.
And we got those resolved in Q4.
And they were resolved in a way that was more favorable than we had previously expected.
So the benefit in Q4 was really the release of some state tax contingencies.
LLC Research Division</strong> And why is 24% 25% right for a business that's as domestic as yours is? Well we are -- we have a very -- we're domestic but we have a lot of international complexity and a very active tax planning function that is there to maximize the tax benefits across the entire globe for us.
So things like the EPC for example drives benefits for us.
And we consciously structured into that when we were thinking about a reorganization in Europe.
And as we went live with SAP in Brazil we consciously organized into a similar structure that will drive tax benefits above and below the line for us.
So we think much more broadly than a pure domestic planning company would.
Next question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on Bill Schmitz's either ninth or 10th question on gross margin.
And just trying to understand you said you were unhappy with the gross margin in the quarter and I understand some of it was mix.
But I mean are you looking at goals internally? Do you see multiple 100 basis points potential? I mean is there something tangible that we might see this year or it's just we got to do better? No we're all over it.
And we're going to sharpen the teeth in our comp systems around gross margin for employees.
We have a proposal into the board to do that.
We have visibility into all the different components of gross margin.
So we can look at things very clearly.
When I said I was disappointed I was really commenting on the full year numbers.
We did see progress in Q4.
We had positive price realization for the first time in a -- first material time.
We saw a little bit of it in Q3 but we saw the progression through the year.
That's good.
Mary and team have to work productivity harder.
And we are.
That the whole value of setting up the global supply chain is to build the funnel on cost ideas in the same way you build a funnel on growth ideas.
And we have visibility into that now in a dashboard that tells us where we are by business.
So we're really -- we know that as we come through Project Renewal the key lubricant for growth is going to be gross margin increases.
We'll always manage overhead with a very tight fist but the real growth driver and the portability driver will come through gross margin increases.
So we're all over it.
It's not easy to drive price realization in a flat market which most of our developed world is.
So that's a challenge but we have to do it.
We're going to figure out how to do it.
And I told you the levers we're looking to -- we're looking to pull but this is the conversation piece for almost every engagement I have with the segments this and their growth.
So we've got to make progress.
We're going to put some comp teeth into it assuming the board is supportive.
And we'll see how that all plays out next year.
And your next question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
This is Bobby filling in for Budd.
A quick question for me.
I was just wondering if you could give us some additional color on some of the market share gains in Commercial Products in North America kind of what you're seeing there or what your attributing that to and kind of how you expect that to continue to play out? We've had a good run on Commercial Products.
We continue to be challenged by the health care portion of that business.
And that will be with us until the uncertainty clears on that vertical but we had good results in Q4.
We're benefiting in Q4 from a change in our selling structure in North America as part of the work we did over the summer to strengthen the CDO and realign resources.
We collapsed the leadership structure of our Customer Development Organization but that enabled us to fund increased retail coverage amongst the distributive trade.
And that certainly has helped us in Q4 to have traction in this business.
So you're seeing core growth occurring on Commercial Products as a result of better frequency of calls on some of the smaller distributors that we call on and some of the hardware chains.
And so that's good news and that should sustain forward.
And then we have good innovation.
And we've got strong innovation coming in 2014.
So whether it's the launch of Executive Series into luxury hotels which is a new cleaning cart system into a cleaning products line into luxury hotels around the world or whether it's some of the other innovations we're bringing forward that leverage our microfiber technology on cloths and mops.
There's a lot of interesting things coming to market on that business which should more than compensate for the challenges we will continue to have we think on health care.
Your last question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Was the HVAC trade show recently held? I think I saw something about it at the Javits Center in New York and I'm wondering what the outlook coming out from that or for Hilmor is? Yes.
So we were there the whole contingent.
I wasn't because I was in another meeting.
But Mark and Bill and the Tools team were in the Javits Center for that event.
Look we've got a great -- we're pleased with where we are but we have more opportunity on Hilmor.
And we're confident that we're going to continue to build this business in the U.S.
and that this platform can serve us well around the world as we build out our emerging markets footprint.
We've got a superior range of tools and products.
We're launching a new line as we come into -- a new extension line as we come into 2014.
So that was a good forum for us.
As you know the HVAC season sort of kicks in over the next couple of months.
That's when the selling volume really sort of starts to kick in.
And so we'll see how that all plays out but the team was really energized by what they saw.
And we're committed to continuing to build that business.
Because I think last year on the timing of the launch you captured only a small potential of what could have been the year's sales of Hilmor.
Do you think this year you'll capture much more of it? We think we have upside this year versus last year in large part because of timing.
You're right Connie we sort of missed.
We were -- I won't describe it as missed.
We pushed ourselves to get to market as quickly as we could in the first quarter.
But as you recall we weren't out selling until sort of late January or early February.
And so we missed the big trade shows which were earlier in the season.
So we didn't get the yield we would have gotten had we been out there earlier but there was just absolutely no way to fast track that initiative any more than we did.
And so we have more opportunity than we captured in 2013 to be had in 2014.
And the teams are working to get it done.
And then just one final I promise.
On Venezuela and all the weird stuff that you're absorbing with Project Renewal savings you're being able to absorb the consolidation of the office superstores.
Do you think in the devaluation in Venezuela those savings will offset that? Or does such an event represent a little bit of downside to earnings? I think it may be somewhere in between Connie.
I think we'll manage the earnings piece first of all.
But we have -- during our experience in the last couple of years as we've seen the currency devaluations occur is that we have been successful in at least partially offsetting some of that loss with pricing.
So that we've been able to use -- come back that way.
And then if we need to use some other spending cuts to manage the rest we will.
And that concludes our question-and-answer period.
If we were unable to get to your questions please call the Investor Relations team at (770) 418-7075.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for any concluding remarks.
Well all I would say is thank you very much and thank you for your patience in sticking with us through the end of the call.
And again thank you for your support and your counsel and advice.
And we look to continue to deliver in the consistent rhythm we've been delivering.
Stay well and we'll see you at CAGNY.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at 1 (800) 585-8367 with an access code of 31362513 starting 2 hours following the end of today's call.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events &amp; Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for today's call.
With me this morning are Mike Polk our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Doug Martin Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including but not limited to core sales normalized operating margin and normalized EPS.
Please note that we have provided the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The reconciliation maybe found in this morning's press release and in our filings for the SEC.
Please recognize also that we have provided risk factors regarding forward-looking statement in today's release and in our latest Form 10-K.
Any set forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events.
These statements are subject to risks and actual results may differ materially.
We do not undertake to update any such statement whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mike Polk.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
My goal today is to walk you through the underlying performance of the business and then explain why we're feeling good about our prospects moving forward.
There's a fair amount of noise in the Q1 numbers so I'll take the time to parse that out so you have a clear line of sight into our results and a good understanding of the opportunities and challenges ahead.
There's no doubt that the start of the year was not what we expected.
You've already seen the announcement we made earlier this quarter about the harness buckle recall on Baby.
And in the U.S.
we were not alone in seeing an impact on retail sales from severe weather which particularly affected our U.S.-centric home solutions business.
The Q1 top line impact either one of these events might have been handled in stride.
But both in the same quarter created the challenge called out in our early March press release.
I see our team stepping up into this challenge nicely as we strengthen plans for the balance of the year.
We become a stronger and more agile company able to overcome these types of challenges and I'm confident that we will.
Importantly we have a strong pipeline of new ideas coming to market starting in Q2 and significant investment fire power that will flow from our cost work.
We will reunite growth by pulling A&amp;P bending forward from Q4 into Q2 and Q3.
If at all possible we'll look to replenish Q4 spend by doubling down un-generating savings.
Our ability to do this will of course depend on the growth yield we get from the step up in Q2 and Q3 investment versus prior year and the margin expansion we generate between now and then.
These revised plans are already in motion.
While this will result in a different flow of growth and earnings than originally envisioned when we provided our outlook for the yearend in January we are reaffirming our full-year guidance for core sales growth normalized operating margin improvement normalized EPS and operating cash flow.
As announced this morning the boards approved a 13% increase in the dividend to an annualized rate of $0.68 per share.
This is the fourth dividend increase in the last three years demonstrating the board's continued confidence in Newell's strong cash generation ability and in the promise of the growth game plan.
With that as a background let me dive into our first quarter results.
Core sales grew 0.7%.
While we're certainly not content with this result I want to unpack the numbers so you understand the dynamics that underpin it.
There were two key events during the quarter which disrupted our plans and are not indicative of our underlying performance.
First the baby harness buckle recall interrupted our two-year streak of nearly 10% global core growth.
Baby core growth accelerated through 2013 to 15% in Q4 and strong momentum carried forward into January of this year.
This growth was disrupted by the recall and the previously communicated European exits with baby core sales down over 4% in the first quarter despite the very strong January.
In Q1 that nearly 20 percentage point core growth swing versus the run rate on the business cost the company as much as 200 basis points of global core growth in the quarter.
The second event was the well-chronicled weather impact in the U.S.
which most directly impacted our U.S.-centric Home Solutions business.
While there are other things happening in this business that contributed to the overall performance there's no doubt that lost point of sales due to weather-related store closures in the U.S.
during the late January through February period impacted the flow of shipments into key mass food and specialty retailers.
The absence of these external events would have put Q1 core sales at the low end of the full year guidance range of 3% to 4% right in line with the suggestion we made for Q1 when we provided full year guidance.
Importantly an assessment of underlying performance should also consider the previously announced decision to exit roughly $25 million business in Europe in 2014 and the prior year pull forward of volume into Q1 related to the SAP conversion in Brazil.
Combined but netting out all double counting potential variables these factors represented another 60 basis points of underlying core growth in Q1.
So core growth of 0.7% in Q1 but with reason to believe that Q1 core growth would have been well into our full year guidance range of 3% to 4% absent these discrete events.
Normalized operating income margin in Q1 was 11% down 20 basis points last year with good gross margin expansion of 60 basis points offset by increased advertising and selling capability investment.
Q1 progress on gross margin is important as we're beginning to see pricing land in stick and very good writing growth resulting in strengthened mix.
The cost associated with the Baby recall is $11 million.
This reflects cost incurred on the harness buckle recall on toddler car seats that we referred to in our first quarter press release and now our best estimate of cost associated with the potential additional recall of harness buckles used on some infant car seats.
Given the significance of the combined cost and their non-repeating nature we have normalized this $11 million or over $0.02 out of our Q1 results.
Importantly Q1 normalized results do reflect the top line and operating income impact of lost toddler car seat sales during the roughly five weeks we were not shipping the effective product as well as the impact of product returns.
Normalized earnings per share was $0.35 and reported earnings per share was $0.19 both were equal to prior year period.
Given the decision to now normalize out the non-repeating combined cost of the recall our normalized earnings per share of $0.35 does not represent a $0.03 beat to consensus given our prior communication.
Our Q1 growth was led by our writing and tools segment partially offset by core sales declines in Home Solutions and Baby.
Writing core sales grew 8% despite the exit of certain product lines in Europe driven by strong value and volume market share growth across the Americas.
While writing had an easy year ago comparator in Q1 we're pleased with these results particularly in light of a continued contraction in retail real estate and the office superstore channel in the U.S.
and Europe.
We continued to advertise Papermate InkJoy through Q1 and are now on air with a new very exciting Sharpie campaign.
We have strong innovation advertising and record merchandising plans set at back to school and we'll support our brand levels well beyond historic highs in Q2 and Q3.
Home Solutions core sales declined 4.5%.
We saw some softness at point of sale and consciously reduced merchandising uncertain Rubbermaid consumer low margin product lines.
These effects were partially offset by increased distribution on Calphalon and very good value and volume market share growth on Rubbermaid food storage and beverage.
We've taken some tough calls on portions of the Home Solutions portfolio on pricing and customer merchandising with the goal of strengthening the mix within the segment and driving profitable growth on portions of the portfolio where we can establish a susbtainable brand and product point of difference.
We have a strengthening innovation pipeline on Calphalon Levolor Goodie and portions of the Rubbermaid portfolio.
And we'll advertise Calphalon for the first time in many years this coming holiday season.
Tools segment core sales increased 2.4% driven by strong growth on Irwin in Latin America and building momentum on Lenox in North America and Irwin in Europe.
Adjusting for the prior year pull forward of sales due to the SAP Brazil conversion tools global core sales increased 5.2% in quarter one.
We have strong innovation in merchandising programs planned for the balance of the year in both North America and Latin America and are beginning to make progress on gross margin through strengthened mix and pricing.
Commercial products core sales increased 0.2% as good growth on Rubbermaid commercial products was largely offset by a significant step back in our U.S.
healthcare business.
The healthcare business was up against an extremely tough year ago period in Q1 related to prior year new distribution and pipeline film [ph].
Having the last -- the difficult Q1 comparator in healthcare and with the benefit of a significant investment in selling expense on the balance of the portfolio the overall commercial product segment should now return to steady solid core growth.
Baby and parenting core sales declined 4.4% as a result of the exit of certain product lines in Europe and the U.S.
harness buckle recall.
The loss of momentum caused by the U.S.
recall was significant as previously discussed.
We have a very strong pipeline of innovation flowing to market through the balance of the year and are quite confident that we will recapture momentum in the business.
Point of sale is recovering on toddler car seats and we expect that to sequentially increase in Q2 and get back to solid mid-single digit growth in the back half of the year.
While we may not be able to recover the lost sales from Q1 associated with the roughly five-week period where we were not shipping product and were off shelf we're comfortable that we can and will recover momentum through Q2 and into the second half of the year.
So core sales growth of 0.7% in Q1 but underlying core growth that was well into our full year guidance range and future quarter core sales growth that will be considerably improved with the unexpected events of weather and recall largely behind us and strong programing and innovation in front of us.
With that let me pass the call over to Doug for a more detailed review of our Q1 financials and then I'll return to provide a deeper perspective on the full year before opening the call for questions.
Doug? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike noted there were some real bright spots as well as some challenges in the quarter.
I'll start with the discussion of our Q1 results and then update you on operating cash Venezuela share repurchase programs and the balance sheet.
Q1 reported net sales were $1.23 billion a decline of 0.7%.
Core sales which exclude the impact of unfavourable FX increased 0.7% versus the prior year.
Strong pricing in the quarter was partly offset by product line exits the impact of the harsh weather on our U.S.-centric businesses and Baby harness buckle recall challenges.
Reported gross margin was 38.1% and normalized gross margin was 38.8% up 60 basis points over last year.
Inflation and unfavourable currency were more than offset in the quarter by pricing and productivity.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $342 million or 27.8% of sales up 80 basis points versus the prior year as we continued to invest behind brands and capabilities despite the short-term sales challenges during the quarter.
The composition of our SG&amp;A spend continues to change as well as we increased advertising and promotion expense by about 10% in the quarter primarily to fund our InkJoy TV ad campaign in the U.S.
Mexico and Asia.
Normalized operation margin was 11% down 20 basis points reflecting positive gross margin expansion offset by continued investment behind our brands and capabilities.
Reported operating margin was 8.5% compared with 7.9% in the prior year.
Interest expense was $14.4 million essentially flat year-over-year and our normalized tax rate was 18.4% compared with 16.5% a year ago because the company recognized a lower amount of discrete text benefits in the current quarter.
Normalized earnings per share which excludes restructuring and restructuring related costs cost associated with a harness buckle recall and the impact of the Venezuela monetary asset devaluation were $0.35 flat compared to year ago results with the benefit from a lower share count resulting from the accelerated share buyback plan offsetting a less favourable tax rate.
First quarter reported earnings per share were $0.19 equal to last year.
We used operating cash of $92.1 million during the quarter a $31 million improvement of the use of $123 million in the prior year.
The change was driven primarily by the absence of an incremental pension plan contribution in the current year offset by larger year-over-year annual customer program and restructuring payments.
We returned $87.3 million to shareholders during the quarter including $42.9 million in dividends and $44.4 million for the repurchase of shares.
The low number of shares outstanding contributed about one penny to EPS as we are now back to active status under our recently authorized $300 million open market plan and we have $256 million left available under that authorization as of the end of the quarter.
I'll now move on to segment results.
Starting with writing reported net sales grew 6.1% to $361.3 million.
Core sales increased 8%.
Our Latin America writing business continued to deliver strong growth over 20% this quarter fuelled by pricing and the benefit of our InkJoy ad campaign in Mexico Columbia and the Caribbean.
North America had strong double digit core growth against a relatively easy comp last year and behind InkJoy advertising.
EMEA sales were down high single digits largely as a result of planned exits.
The Q1 normalized operating margin in our writing segment was 21.3% a 270 basis-point improvement over year ago results driven by pricing productivity and project renewal related cost savings in Europe partially offset by the increased advertising spend behind InkJoy.
The Home Solution segment first quarter net sales declined 5.2% to $321.2 million.
Core sales declined 4.5% due in large part to weather-related POS softness and the deemphasizing of some low margin businesses within Rubbermaid consumer.
Calphalon had another strong quarter driven by recent distribution gains.
Home Solutions normalized operating margin was 8.2% a 190 basis point decline versus the prior year reflecting the deleveraging impact of lower sales volume and inflation.
The tool segment delivered net sales of $184.8 million for a decline of 4%.
Core sales growth was 2.4%.
You will recall that we implemented SAP in Brazil in Q2 2013 and we called out a pull forward impact in this segment of approximately $5 million last year due to this timing shift.
Adjusting for this SAP timing-related shift our underlying Q1 core sales were 5.2%.
This trend is largely attributable to our success in Brazil with our expanded tools offering in the back half of last year which has driven both share and distribution gains.
We're also seeing strength in the Lenox business in North America.
Operating margin in the tools segment was 11.4% versus last year's 9.9%.
This improvement was driven by gross margin expansion behind pricing and improved mix.
Reported net sales in the commercial product segment declined 0.3% to $182.6 million and core sales increase 0.2%.
Favorable pricing in North America and Latin America was offset by weather-related softness in the U.S.
and a difficult comparison against strong healthcare results in the prior year.
Commercial products operating margin was 7.6% down compared with last year's 11.8% due to input cost inflation mix and capability investments primarily in Latin America.
Our Baby segment reported $179.3 million in net sales a decline of 5.4%.
Core sales were down 4.4% due to low sales volume and returns related to the harness buckle recall lower sales in Asia and planned product line exits in Europe.
We anticipate a return to healthier sales volume trends in the balance of the year and we expect Baby full year core sales growth of mid-single digits.
Q1 normalized operating margin which excludes direct cost associated with the recall but does not adjust for returns or lost sales was 9.1% down 350 basis points to last year largely due to FX and input cost inflation partially offset by pricing.
Looking at Q1 sales core sales by geography North America grew 0.9% with strong results from writing and tools and declines of Baby commercial and Home Solutions.
In EMEA core sales declined 5.1% driven largely by planned product line exists of $6.3 million primarily in writing and Baby.
If adjusted for the impact of these exits EMEAs underlying growth rate was a negative 1.3% which is a little better than our 2013 trend in our EMEA businesses.
Despite the top line pressure from exits the normalized operating margin in EMEA increased nicely year-over-year as a result of the project renewal European simplification actions that were taken to improve profitability.
All thanks to the great efforts of the EMEA team.
In Latin America core sales grew 10% despite the headwinds of $6 million of SAP timing-related pull in 2013.
Adjusted for that pull forward Latin America would have generated core sales growth of approximately 17%.
And lastly Asia core sales showed a slight decline of 0.3%.
We saw modest growth from fine writing as we reached stabilization of the business this quarter and peak of sales declines coming off two years of very strong growth.
Now I'd like to take a minute to talk about Venezuela and FX in general.
As we've said in the past Venezuela represents about 1% of total Newell sales and 3% to 4% of operating profit mainly in the writing business.
Based on recent changes to the Venezuela currency exchange rate mechanisms we have moved the rate we used to translate our Venezuela financial results into U.S.
dollars effective March 31st to SICAD I.
This resulted in a monetary asset devaluation of $38.7 million at the close of the quarter which is reflected in the other expense line in the as reported income statement and as exchange rate effect on cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement.
The impact of the one-time monetary asset devaluation has been excluded from normalized earnings.
Subsequent to the first quarter we will be using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions for U.S.
dollars conducted under Venezuela SICAD I which was 10.7 Bolivar to the U.S.
dollar at the end of the first quarter compared to the official exchange rate of 6.3.
We expect the impact of changes in global currencies including the Bolivar to have an unfavourable impact on operating income.
Based on current spot rates we estimate the negative impact of translational FX to be between $0.04 and $0.05 per share for the remainder of 2014.
The total negative impact of both transactional and translational FX is expected to be between $0.10 and $0.12 this year over last year given overall currency volatility versus the U.S.
dollar.
This is incremental to a negative $0.06 impact in the prior year.
Additionally the Venezuela government has issued a new law on fair pricing establishing the maximum profit a business can earn when in Venezuela.
However there's not yet clarity from the government on how profitability will be measured.
We are continuing to evaluate the impact a new law may have on our 2014 operating results and have not yet included any further actions in our guidance.
I'll now switch topics and give you an update on our share repurchase programs and the balance sheet.
We completed the $350 million accelerated share repurchase plan in the quarter taking delivery of the final 2 million shares in mid-March and purchased approximately 1.5 million shares in the quarter under the open market repurchase plan.
From a share count perspective we're modelling an annualized average share count of approximately 282 million shares.
And finally our balance sheet remains very healthy after having returned to $87 million to shareholders in the quarter and approximately equal amount of dividends and share repurchases.
We have $137 million of cash on hand over $800 million in liquidity and no long-term debt maturities until mid-2015.
Our debt to equity EBITDA multiple and interest coverage ratios continue to be strong.
With that I'll turn the call back to Mike.
Thanks Doug.
The progress we've made driving the growth game plan into action has made us a stronger and more agile company.
We have robust plans for the balance of the year and we will increase brand investment significantly to reignite growth.
We're well on our way to delivering the project renewal savings and we're strengthening our drive for further savings by scaling our sourcing activities optimizing distribution and transportation and by value engineering our packs and products.
Our pipeline of new ideas and new products are the strongest we've had in recent years particularly on writing tools and baby where we will launch over 10 new products or platforms starting in Q2 through the end of the year.
We are or have already created new stronger advertising on Sharpie Graco Irwin and Calphalon that will complement our very effective Paper Mate InkJoy advertising.
In all of these campaigns we'll air over the balance of the year with record levels of media support.
In this context weve reaffirmed the full year guidance for 2014 core sales growth in the range of 3% to 4% normalized operating income margin expansion of up to 40 basis points normalized EPS of $1.94 to $2 or 6% to 9% growth and operating cash flow of $600 million to $650 million.
There are two key factors that could influence delivery in the year.
The first is our ability to reignite growth.
We're well positioned with a strong pipeline of new products new advertising and new selling capabilities that will be supported with a significant increase in spending.
Our ability to support our brands at the rate we plan will also -- while also delivering the margin expansion and EPS growth we're committed to deliver will be a function of tight overhead management and gross margin development through the year.
Project renewal savings and very tight discretionary spending will enable the delivery of the overhead objectives.
We're working gross margin from multiple angles of cost price and mix with the ambition to create a deep pipeline of ideas that sustain gross margin increases through 2014 and beyond.
Our 60 basis point increase in gross margin in Q1 is encouraging and slightly ahead of our original expectations so we're off to a good start.
Our work to establish Newell as a lean and efficient operations will be the critical enabler to increase brand support and growth acceleration not just this year but over the balance of the growth game plan.
Given the challenge of Q1 reigniting growth will be the big focus for both our development and delivery organizations.
Delivering core growth at the high end of the full year guidance range would require 4.9%growth for the balance of the year.
Delivering growth at the low end of the core guidance range would require 3.6% growth for the balance of the year.
In the second half of 2013 we grew core sales nearly 4%.
This gives us a line of sight and confidence that would significantly increase investment and stronger brand plans we can deliver in the full year core sales guidance range despite the tough start to the year.
Importantly our core sales guidance assumes that a potential additional harness buckle recall related to certain infant car seats does not result in a significant retail disruption like the one experienced in quarter one on toddler car seats.
This assumption is consistent with our best estimate of the most likely of all outcomes.
There is the possibility that we could reach a different resolution with NHTSA than that reflected in our core sales guidance.
The second factor that could influence our full year results is foreign exchange.
This factor is pretty straightforward.
Our reaffirmation guidance assumes we cover $0.04 to $0.05 of further negative currency largely related to our decision to take the Venezuela bolivar to the SICAD I rate.
We believe this to be the right assumption given what we know today.
While we don't provide quarterly guidance there are two factors that could influence the flow of core sales and EPS over the balance of the year.
The first factor is the quarterly profile of our brand investment.
As mentioned we will focus the significant step up in brand support versus prior year in Q2 and Q3 to reignite growth.
This flow of spending will influence the delivery of EPS for the balance of the year.
The second factor is the shifting of shipments at quarter-end between Q2 Q3 and Q4 related to two unique events.
With the timing of July 4th on a Friday this year we could experience a shift of quarter two back to school writing shipments from the last week of June into early quarter three as retailers will be more reluctant to take inventory into their system before their floor stock of July 4th merchandising is cleared.
Additionally on October 1st 2014 we will go live on SAP across the balance of Latin America.
This will result in a pull forward of volume out of Q4 into Q3 to ensure smooth SAP transition.
These two factors will drive a different profile results to last year with solid core sales growth in Q2 and a further step up in growth rate in Q3.
In Q4 core sales growth will be more modest with the full value of second half launches partially offset by the loss of volume due to the SAP pull forward into Q3 and the step down in brand spending related to our focused surge of investment in Q2 and Q3.
We believe the core growth and new spending flows could result in normalized EPS growth rates in the middle of our full year guidance range of 6% to 9% in Q2 and Q3 with a step up in Q4 to slightly above the high end of the range.
So a different start in the year than we anticipated as a result of two unplanned events the recall and to a lesser degree weather.
In the context of these challenges we delivered a solid set of underlying results with very good growth on tools and writing strong delivery of savings and encouraging progress on gross margin.
Nearly one year after the restructuring of our marketing and R&amp;D teams our development organization is starting to hit its stride with stronger innovation and advertising flowing through the funnel to market.
Their work along with the strengthened capability in selling puts us in a good position to handle this year's challenges.
Our business has come a long way in the last three years and I'm very proud of the work we've done and I'm especially proud of our people for their commitment in drive to strengthen our company.
The challenge of Q1 raises the bar on leadership driving us to act fast to focus sharply on the things that matter and to manage our resources even more dynamically.
All great tests of the new operating model and a terrific opportunity to demonstrate what the new Newell is capable of delivering.
We know that a sustainable acceleration in performance will come from Newell bringing the best we have to offer to our consumers our customers and our people.
I see a new type of collaboration occurring across the enterprise as our new organization matures with increasing energy to execute winning ideas really really well.
We're beginning to see in writing what's possible when we set the right ambition and build aggressive plans just as we've done in Baby over the last two years.
Next week we'll bring all of our sales and marketing teams together to work on a much stronger set of 2015 plans in our second annual global planning summit.
Five hundred people from around the world and across our organization collaborating for 2015 growth.
That's the growth game plan in action.
That's our new operating model coming to speed.
And with that I'd like to open up the line for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We'll pause for just a moment to allow everyone an opportunity to signal for questions.
We'll go to our first question from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Hi Wendy.
Hi.
Good morning.
My first question has to do with the recall that you've gone through for Graco.
And how confident you are that there aren't lingering issues associated with the brand equity or stuff like that? Or do you think that even once you get passed on whatever you need to do to fix the harnesses do you have to enter into a prolonged period of higher promotional spending to support the brand or anything like that? That's great question.
Wendy since the moment of the recall we've been measuring consumer feedback on the brand.
These brands are our greatest asset.
This is a great concern.
We've done and we continue to do research to understand how the -- particularly the immediate coverage impacted people's brand perceptions and also how the disappointment in the quality issue we have on the buckle has influenced their perception of the brand.
And this is an incredibly strong brand and a very resilient brand.
I'm very pleased that we haven't seen a step back.
And I think part of that has to do with the way our marketing teams and our selling organization has engaged on the issue.
It was incredibly disruptive but our consumer services and customer services teams along with our marketing and selling organizations have done a great job over communicating with consumers.
This was a different kind of recall than any we've experienced before because of the nature of it in terms of breadth and also the timing between decision and implementation.
And that caused us to have some challenges with the respect to getting replacement parts to consumers.
And the group did just an extraordinary job of managing that dynamic and I'm pleased that we can say that there hasn't been any noticeable change in equity or attribute ratings on the brand.
And can you tell us what percentage of the Graco brand is car seats? We haven't really communicated that Wendy before but it's well into sort of 20% 30% range.
I'll just give you a sort of a bracket there.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then my second question is just going back to what you just said at the very end about the planning meeting that you're about to have which sounds great I assume most of that is kind of innovation related and brand-building related but are -- the conversations about either further product line exits also takes place there.
I'm wondering specifically the $25 million of revenue that you're exiting in Europe.
Is there a chance that number goes up? Are those the kinds of things that you entertain as well or are we kind of -- it's a portfolio set and SKU assortment kind of set at this point? Well everything is on the table at those meetings.
This is where our integrated marketing plans or global plans our development team are building brand plans out for 2015 for the brands they work on and for the relevant countries for those brands.
And the way this process works is that integrated marketing plan is translated into a national merchandising plan and then translated into joint customer business plans.
That three-step process in building an annual plan for the company is what is initiated at these discussions.
So everything is on the table.
It's a media spending.
We've got a framework for what we intend to do in 2015 each brand does.
That's been vetted through the marketing organization now.
And now it's time to kind of socialize that agenda and also to talk about the more executional side of the business core brand distribution what the optimal distribution footprint looks like by brand by channel by customer.
And so those are the types of conversations that are happening.
We're talking about price increases for next year.
At that time we're talking about merchandising price points merchandising frequency all the display material that we'll use next year is being communicated the frequency of off-shelf displays back to school planning for '15 will be initiated at this call.
So it's everything that you can imagine you would want to talk about along that dimensions I've just described from global brand plan to national merchandising plans to individual joint customer business plan.
So it's a very very important meeting.
It's a week long and these are full on working sessions for four and a half days.
We'll talk about as I said we'll talk about everything there.
Your specific question about product line exits in Europe we initiated those exits to be able to initiate the complexity reduction in our infrastructure.
John Stipancich and his team led that work and it's yielding great margin improvement in Europe and now we're on the verge of getting our European business back to growth ex those exits.
There are constantly conversations happening around mix within brands and product lines.
Certain portions of our business have very high variable contribution margins and other portions of our business in some cases have very low variable contribution margins.
We need to think through all of those dynamics and how we set targets and how we pull [ph] portions of the portfolio for growth.
Those are constant on-going conversations.
For example we never talked about this in 2013 but we exited Goodie Electrics a year ago.
If it's a substantial exit we'll talk about it.
A $25 million is a big number.
If it's a less substantial exit we'll manage it within our numbers but we're going to do the right things in terms of strengthening the portfolio while delivering against our ambition to accelerate growth as a company.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Good morning Chris.
Hi Chris.
Hey guys I guess when you have adversity obviously you have decisions to make where you have to the balance delivering in the near-term with the long-term health of the business.
So I guess what I was hoping for was some color and context around the decisions you are making this year right? So you are accelerating advertising and marketing pulling it into Q2 Q3 to jumpstart top line growth.
You are also absorbing another sort of nugget on Venezuela.
I guess talk through if you can the decision process around not lowering guidance on Venezuela accelerating the marketing like what is the trade-off of accelerating that marketing if any and how you're thinking about that stuff? Yeah.
Well I think it's really important.
The first filter with all this -- in situations like this from my perspective the first filter that we have a responsibility to apply is whether any choice we're making is consistent with the strategic agenda we've laid out for the business.
And that's the first pulled filter that's been applied in this re-plan.
So if this re-plan was going to result in us having to cut the step up in A&amp;P support that we have built into 2014 as part of the strategic phase of the growth game plan we would have just taken our lumps and gone to the market and dealt with that conversation with you guys on EPS because we're not going to mortgage the strategic agenda in the business.
That's what we're accountable for delivery.
And we believe it's the best path to value creation for our investors.
And we have confidence and weve built confidence through last year that when we invest behind these brands we can get a real growth yield and if were smart about how we manage how we deploy A&amp;P we can get a mix benefit as well which you're beginning to see through the writing momentum that we've got in Q1.
So we were not about to mortgage that agenda item.
That said when you look at the growth game plan you look at the five ways to win.
There are two things that we talk about and weve organized the company around these two things.
We believe we can do both of them really really well which is making our brands really matter which is what the development organization has accountability for and building out an executional powerhouse which is what the delivery organization has accountability for.
It's too early in the year given what we know and given a rigorous set of analytics that we've applied.
It's too early in the year to mortgage the second pillar for the sake of the strategic agenda.
And as I laid to you it's plausible for us to get right in the middle of the range.
Everything would have to go well.
We couldn't have another misstep executionally or we couldn't have another event hit us a material event hit us.
But it's just month three.
So I've never in my career ever pulled back on delivery in that context but to be very very clear strategic priority and strategic agenda for the company first.
And then if we're comfortable that we're not mortgaging that then by all means there's no way we're pulling off our ambition to deliver the commitments we've made.
If it comes to some point later in the year where that probability is not high enough we'll let you know.
But at this point I'm comfortable as I've laid out in the material today that we can pull this off.
I think it's a great test as a new operating model.
It's a great test of our leadership team and whether where you succeed or whether we don't succeed it doesn't matter we will all grow through this experience and we'll move on to 2015.
Great.
Thanks.
And I guess one other on M&amp;A obviously you've been talking about it a lot more at CAGNY.
You indicated that you've got a number of deals.
Can you just talk a little bit about what you're thinking about there has your thought process changed at all or have you become more interested less interested in doing deals? And what do you see out there in the environment? Yeah.
So this is a really interesting opportunity for us as we sort of turn the corner through the midpoint of the year.
And we really get the operating model up to speed and our capability start to getting traction.
We then have the opportunity to complement all the organic capability and growth acceleration capability deployment and growth acceleration to come through the plan with external development.
And we will certainly have the cash flexibility to do that.
We have the borrowing capacity to do that.
And as a result in my narrative I'm sure you've noticed over the last six to nine to twelve months you've seen M&amp;A sort of start to feature a little bit more prominently in the dialogue.
We are out getting targets.
I think it's really important given our track record and history in the space to make sure that whatever we do we do really really well and it creates a lot of value and it's not dilutive at all to any of the metrics if we can avoid it across the P&amp;L and also to -- from an EPS perspective.
And for us perhaps more importantly that it fulfils a strategic need that we got in the business.
Remember we said we had five anchor categories two of which are scale Home Solutions and writing and three of which are subscale and subscale to us means less than a billion dollars.
So our ambition is to try to scale all five of those anchored categories.
So our filters are strategic but we also have the ambition to do things that are accretive and enhance if we can growth in margin when we do them.
And it come with the package of synergies either cost or revenue synergies that are very attractive to us.
So when you start to apply all those filters your ability to find the right targets becomes narrower and narrower.
And again I don't think it's right -- I think a long view on the agenda we have here so I'm not in a rush to do anything.
That said we have a bunch of conversations going on.
Mark Tarchetti and Jason Mullins lead that work for us.
And when I say conversations there are internal conversations going on.
And I'm hopeful we can find the path over the coming quarters and into next year to demonstrate our capacity in this area to execute acquisitions as brilliantly as we hope to be able to demonstrate on our core agenda.
Thanks a lot guys.
We'll go to our next question from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Hey Bill.
Good morning Bill.
Good morning.
I kind of want you back to the shift in the A&amp;P spend and so with the understanding of your businesses are all a little bit different.
Some of them are seasonal.
And so you certainly had a reason why you had the A&amp;P spend kind of weighted towards the fourth quarter.
How easy is it to shift it so that how do you move it if it was planned for certain categories to other? Can you help me understand how you move it back and then manage the business at the same time? Well in the past that would have been nearly impossible.
That would have been like pulling teeth because of the way we were organized.
You had a holding company structure with 43 different bonus pulls.
Pulling resources and managing resources dynamically like what we've just done would have been really difficult from an execution standpoint within the design of the company we had.
We're different company today.
We're an operating company all the boys sit at that top table.
We needed to make the choice that we were going to jump start.
We've used this language to reignite growth.
And we had increases in Q2 Q3 built into our first plan as you know based on our earlier conversations and we have an increase built on top of an increase a year ago in Q4 in A&amp;P support.
And so what we've done is we pulled -- to be very specific we pulled some writing support out of Q4 and make sure it's really sitting right on top of our writing initiatives and we've got a very very strong plan on writing in Q2 Q3.
Most of the investments that we've pulled forward is media behind the new campaigns that we're working on.
We've also made the decision on Graco that we need to make sure that in the context of the disruption in Q1 that we had strategic plans to build a new campaign out for Graco.
We havent advertised Graco in God knows how long.
And we made the decision a year ago that we're going to work on advertising.
Well we're fortunate to have made that decision because now we want to deploy that media behind the brand despite the fact that the P&amp;L's taken a knock in Q1.
And we were going to protect that investment and pull it forward a little bit so that we can get on with the reigniting growth there.
What's the mortgage? There were some support in Q4 on those businesses and some others.
We pulled back a little bit on commercial products support.
We pulled back a little bit on tools.
But we protected the Calphalon spend in Q4 which is when we should be advertising Calphalon around the holidays.
And again a brand that hasnt been advertised in a very very long time.
But we're working on that communication as we speak.
So its that sort of logic it's enabled by our structure the fact that we're an operating company it's enabled by the new operating model its really Dough Mark Tarchetti Bill Burke [ph]and myself in a room and we can decide what we need to do in moments like this.
And that's effectively what we've done.
And just a follow up on the Baby your kind of understanding the dynamics behind that.
But when you were out of the market for four or five weeks what did the retailers do? I mean did they put it inside the label did they put it in other brands? And so is it as simple as kind of coming back and saying "Thanks for holding our thoughts.
We'll take that space back"? Or how quickly are you able to get back in and re-establish yourself? We're back in already.
Those spots don't sit there empty.
They're savvy.
They flow inventory into them temporarily.
We obviously talk to them about putting some of our other items that weren't recalled into those slots.
But they don't hand them off to somebody else.
I think they understand the situations.
This was a different one than we've had in the long long time because of the fact that we were -- there were so much inventory in their system of this product.
We learned a lot of things through this experience about how sophisticated some of the systems are out there or how well they segregate inventory through their systems traceability all sorts of things that we will learn and adapt our programming around that would enable us to do it more efficiently.
You would think that first in first out would apply on inventory through retailer system but not always we've learned.
So you've got all those dynamics.
And you've got the dynamic that our re retailer will not want the exposure of selling anything that's being recalled.
And so you have to make sure that there's not going to be a circumstance where UBC [ph] will flow through their system after you think you've got a cleaned up into the retail environment because then they won't be able to kind of check the consumer out through the cash register if it's a recalled.
You'll be seeing a very reluctant to once they've stopped selling those items.
Flick the switch and turn that sell back on.
So you have to really spend a lot of time going through their entire warehouse their inventory systems and making sure you caught everything.
And that's the process that we went through.
We are the leader in this market by far globally and in the U.S.
We quoted you global growth rates of 15%.
Our core growth rate in largely flat to slightly increasing market was well over 20% all of last year in North America and right into January.
So we're the one driving.
We're capturing immense amount of market share right now in this business and we're the one driving the category.
So we have those assets and I think those helped us move through the issue with the retailer because these things are unfortunate for them as well.
They lose its not just us who loses the revenues they do and our buyers lose their ability to reach their bonus target.
So it's really a tough situation when you get into a place like we were in and have been in.
But I think that's largely behind us.
We have the possibility probability of another dynamic unfolding on infant which we hope to get resolved in Q2 although our best view of that situation is that it would be far less dramatic at retail.
But of course there's -- as we called out in the script there's a risk that we may not end up exactly where we think our discussions with NHTSA will end up.
But we made our best call on that our best call does not presume a major retail disruption associated with the potential exposure on infant.
Got it.
Thanks for color.
Yeah.
Your next question will be from John Faucher with JP Morgan.
Hey John.
Hey good morning.
I apologize for continuing to follow up on the baby piece.
But my understanding of the situation is that this is due to -- or at least this is involving a co-packer that you guys use.
And so your view on Baby has gotten more positive over the past couple of years as the revenue trends have accelerated.
Is there any thought to changing the business model here where you say "You know what this is something where we need to bring this in house.
That way you could potentially capture the margin opportunities you get more control obviously at the expense of capital.
Is there a thought in terms of potentially changing the business model on Baby as a result of this? Just to be clear the issue that we're dealing with is a buckle issue not a co-packing issue.
And there's a company that we've procured these buckles from our supply partner uses the componentry that we procure or define.
And so the relationship we have with our partner has no way contributed to the situation we're in.
I think if we look in the mirror and went back six or seven years and looked at our choice to use the primary buckle that's at the heart of this.
In the context of the growth game plan you wouldn't have made that choice.
So we own that decision and thankfully there are no safety incidents for us or for anybody else in the industry who use the same buckle.
But in the context of building great brands with superior performance that's a buckle you wouldn't want to have on a product and a brand like Graco.
But we've got to live with legacy of things decided whenever they were decided within our company and we're cleaning that.
We're cleaning that out.
But to be clear it had nothing to do with our supply partner.
We've rekindled a very very strong relationship with those guys.
And they deserve a lot of the credit for the impact we're having in the marketplace over the last two years and they're great partners and we're lucky to have them.
With respect to whether we want to vertically integrate or re-integrate we've got a very high return on net assets on this business we create a lot of value on this business if we can grow even though it has dilutive gross margins to the fleet average.
So I don't think this issue really warrants a re-evaluation of that.
I think there's going to be other ways that we can apply capital to create value for our investors that are going to be much more attractive than that one might be.
Not to say we wouldn't ever do it but it has to be really thought through in where we fit on a list of opportunities.
Itd probably be further down the list on other things we envision doing with our cash.
Okay.
And then a separate question on writing you talked about the pricing in the press release there.
Can you talk about  is the brand investment driving your ability to take price? Because a lot of companies that we covered just simply aren't seeing that type of pricing here.
So what's driving that how sustainable is that as you look out over the next couple of years.
Yeah.
John this is Doug.
I think our brands are strong enough to -- many of our brands are strong enough to take and sustain price.
And the investing behind the brands is helpful.
In the case of writing specifically weve begun advertising InkJoy brand as you know in Latin America.
And that's where a lot of our pricing is coming from in this business right now.
So it's a combination of brand support and pricing and driving really nice volume.
Okay.
So is that more mix then or sort of straight price? It's straight price.
In Latin America.
In Latin America right.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hey Bill.
Doug just a quick one on the tax rate I think I might have missed it.
But what do you guys think the normalized tax rate is going to be for the year? It hasn't changed Bill.
It's still between 24% and 25%.
As you know the thing that we have difficulty judging is when discrete items might hit throughout the year and they traditionally hit for us in Q1 and Q3 but it is difficult to tell in our rate.
And those are items you can't actually build into a flat rate for the year so they pop up.
But I think 24 to 25 is still a good range.
Okay.
Great.
And then the advertising ratio for the year did you guys ever say what you expect the ratio of sales to increase and how that's changed versus your previous guidance? And then you look broadly across the industry and obviously it's horrible for the brands.
But there's tons of money that's moving from advertising to promotion.
And so are you tempted to take that path or have you taken that path a little bit? Any color would be appreciated.
So we did move down that path last year Bill.
So as we built out the scale events that our merchandising teams pivot around.
That was an investment we did make in 2013.
Actually this year we're pulling back a little bit.
We have some shifting between consumer promotion and merchandising devices.
But the real step up in A&amp;P is almost all advertising related in 2014.
And we haven't communicated an advertising ratio externally but this is a very material step up in advertising investment in Q2 and Q3 well into double digit increases.
And the bits impact is quite significant.
And I prefer not to kind of give a specific number out for competitive reasons.
But we last year spent at a much higher rate than our competitors and this year you'll see us spend even more significantly than our competitors.
It's our responsibility as the leaders in these markets to build the categories.
Of course we're going to do it through our branded assets so we're going to capture share as we are in our key strategic businesses whether it's baby whether it's a writing portfolio whether it's our food storage food beverage portfolio within Rubbermaid.
Where we're making these bets were winning.
And so we're encouraged by the responsiveness of the business to the investment.
And because of the way we're managing the company we're taking the power of $6 billion company and applying it against competitive interphases -- at the interface between a category in a country against smaller competitors.
We can flood those competitive interfaces with resources if we manage the resources dynamically and we don't let them get trapped in businesses.
And that's exactly what we're doing and that's why we see the share yield in the places where we've applied it.
Our ambition is to obviously do that in more places and that's why the cost work is so important because getting the cost out enables us to cover more geography more category country sales with that type of resourcing model.
And that's why when we talk about our cost agenda we talk about this unlocking the trap capacity for growth.
Our drive to make Newell lean and efficient is inextricably linked to our ability to accelerate growth and our growth acceleration is a function of taking those call savings and deploying them against strategic investments either in capabilities or in brand support.
That's the algorithm we're trying to kind of implement.
And it's early days but if Q4 was a good indicator I think Q1 when you really do the math on the underlying performance yeah nobody is happy with Q1.
But if you look at the underlying performance in the business you feel okay about those gross rates given the spending level.
And thats' why we can be optimistic about the impact that we'll have in Q2 Q3.
But time will tell.
But it's a significant  your question was very straightforward.
My answers is always long.
It's a good answer.
And then just lastly what was the home solution especially Rubbermaid home.
You guys the team has done an amazing job broadly across the portfolio but it seems like Rubbermaid home is your kind of kryptonite.
So is there anything there that -- a code you can crack resin prices are at their three-day high.
They're up 12% year over year.
So that's not going to help the cost much in that business.
But is there a point in time where you say "You know what screw it.
Its not worth it.
Let's just move on"? No it's a great brand.
We're going to figure out this one out.
This is my life mission.
So I love the brand.
It's a power brand and it's like any other brand.
I've worked on some tough tough brands before coffee business Maxilla House not an easy brand.
There are plenty of margarine not easy brands.
This is just another naughty -- there are plenty of margarine not easy brands.
This is just another not-easy brand.
And so we're going to figure this out.
I've got a really good team on Rubbermaid both on the delivery side and on the development side.
And we're encouraged by the ideas that are coming through the innovation funnel.
We've got some of our best thinkers on this business.
This is where shops design capability will be able to kind of really create value.
By the way we just opened that design center a few weeks ago.
And so we're going to crack this code.
Now just remember Rubbermaid is 7 to 8 different businesses under one brand.
We go up from everywhere from big storage codes to food storage to food beverage containers to durable water bottles to water coolers to outdoor sheds to outdoor dcor to closet organization to garage organization.
So this is a big sprawling brand.
Not all of the product lines within this brand are interesting to us.
But many of them are really interesting to us and are on trend.
So this is going to take us a while.
This will be our toughest brand challenge I think of all the stuff we've got going on.
We're not ready yet to put real money behind it but I think this is one of the most interesting businesses we've got and we're going to figure it out.
It may take us another year to get it right but we're going to give you evidence that even this brand can be cracked.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Our next question from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
I also have a follow up on home solutions the business.
What percentage of the home solution products are the ones that either you can't take pricing on or low margins or that caused you the trouble in the first quarter.
I'll just tell you that the line.
I'm not going to give you a percentage Connie but it's a big home organization tods business which is the toughest business we've got.
It's the most competitive business we've got and it's a place where it's not easy to create a product based point of difference that enables you to command a premium price.
And that's the one thats set a portion of that portfolio that will be trouble for us.
We may not get to all the other portions of the business that are right upfront in terms of renovating their design and their configuration.
But this is probably the biggest challenge within the business.
And of course you can't just pull back the throttle on something that's sizeable like that those big tods are as a percentage of your revenue stream because you get into a fixed cost absorption with you and your factories.
So we're going through the process of understanding the variable contribution margin of every one of our product lines by factory.
We're looking at the hours produced within those factories.
We're figuring out how to reconfigure our demand and create the demand that enables us to absorb the right amount of -- absorb the fixed cost in these factories but on the businesses with a higher variable contribution margin.
So we're not going to live the old ways that we have historically lived where the big volume-producing items with the low variable contribution margins absorb the fix cost and we rationalize our gross margin percentage in the back of the assertion that they absorb the infrastructure cost.
We believe we can grow the other portions of our business quite substantially.
And so the mechanism by which you get this thing fixed is you invest in the product and the brand but in those other areas such that your volume grows you absorb the infrastructure cost and it gives you the ability to pull back on the portions that have lower variable contribution margin.
You could argue "Well why don't you just scrip the asset down?" et cetera.
We've done a lot of that.
So we've got to get this.
We're in the process of unpacking this thing.
It's really interesting.
It's like a puzzle which is great.
So if you message to my people if you work on this business it's my favourite business even though it's the most difficult one because it's complicated and you've got to -- you work on so many different levels and dimensions to be able to unlock an answer here.
But the question was that before I think there is an answer in an algorithm to be found and we're getting really close.
But the most unattractive portion of the business are the big tods thats the most competitive.
And we're just not going to fall into the -- or step in the pot hole that we've historically stepped in where in tough moments for growth we lean in to that.
I'm not doing that anymore.
So if that forces me to have a difficult conversation with you at some point in the future so be it on top line.
But we're not going to do that because we're not -- by doing that we mask the underlying issue and we don't confront it.
So we're working on it.
It's going to take us a while.
Okay.
Thanks.
And I also have a follow up on Venezuela.
My understanding was that you need to report the rate at which you're actually getting access to dollars.
And I also thought you were getting access at the 6.3 rate.
So I'm wondering why you went to SICAD I if you were invited in? And also if you made that -- that that was your choice.
Why didn't you also -- did you think about going to SICAD II and just sort of like getting rid of the risk over the long term? Because you see in two companies now go to SICAD II so I'm wondering what your thought process was.
Yeah Connie this is Doug.
I'll take that.
We actually are in profession in the industry that needs to record at the rate at which you expect to be repatriate earnings and or royalty streams as opposed to what you're daily transacting the business at.
And for us the most likely rate that that will be is SICAD I.
Now to be clear we continue to get approvals for under the old regime at 6.3 to get payment to vendors on an everyday basis.
While we get approvals we're not getting cash.
So there still remains a tremendous amount of uncertainty as to when we can actually monetize those in U.S.
dollars on our side.
And then from a SICAD perspective when we look at the different classifications between SICAD I and SICAD II for our products -- and remember our products in country are mostly in the writing business.
They're mostly educational tools and we believe that they'll most likely fall in to SICAD I.
We haven't been invited to participate in either SICAD I or SICAD II at this point.
But SICAD I is where we expect to go.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Hey thanks.
Good morning Mike.
Good morning Doug.
Good morning Joe.
I just want to go back to gross margin for a second and the expansion you saw this quarter.
Obviously you surprised us and it sounded like it surprised you to the upside as well.
I wonder how sustainable that was.
You mentioned that you're looking for a step down in promo spending this year.
So was there any sort of one time item in that number or is that really a sustainable expansion number going forward? And if you could tease out how much of that was from pricing and how much from promotion? Thanks.
Yes.
We got good price realization.
Remember we started to take pricing in Q4.
We've got good price realization in the quarter.
So that's a positive.
How sustainable that will be? That will be a question over time and we have a set of principles that we need to embrace which are relative which are competitively driven.
So we have price gaps that we are looking to maintain relative to our competition and that's the principle that will drive us because that's what in the brand's interest.
So there may be some movement and maybe some movement back on some of that pricing.
But we'll see.
It depends what our competitors do.
To be clear if our competitors match then there won't be any reason to have to pull off of that number.
That said we think we're going to have a positive price impact to gross margin on the full year significant one in part because of the inflation that Bill was talking about on the resin based businesses.
But in part because we can begin to price as we build these brands and build the equity in these brands.
We're changing the value proposition in these brands and we think we can capture more pricing and be less merchandising dependent.
That said we spend a huge amount of money between gross price and net price.
So don't think that we're pulling back hard on the throttle.
We're just taking series of steps here.
Mix is certainly a variable in Q1.
Remember Home Solutions was down lower gross margin.
Baby was down lower gross margin.
So that's a variable in the gross margin increase.
Had the Graco recall not happened we wouldn't have gotten a stronger gross margin outcome because Graco would have been stronger on the volume side with mix of the business down a little bit.
That said we still think we would have gotten margin increase.
And so the differential versus prior year and our expectations because we had expectations of gross margin increases in Q1 relates largely to that.
We've got a significant amount of inflation that's figuring into gross margin well over 100 basis points in gross margin which is what Bill was mentioning.
And so the long term algorithm for gross margin improvement for us is going to be fundamental cost -- productivity and cost management sourcing savings and productivity through value engineering our packs and products efficiency work in factories hard looks at distribution networks and distribution cost as a percent of revenue transportation cost as percent of revenue.
And mix and maximizing the mix.
Those are going to be the things that drive gross margin increases for us going forward.
And we're just beginning quite frankly to do that well.
Mary and her team have -- we've reorganized the supply chain in the middle last year big changes.
Just like in every other aspect of our business the folks the new functional capabilities we're building are just beginning to get up to speed and to have the impacts we hope they will have over time.
So this will become one of the key enablers going forward.
We expect and we need the gross margin increases in the full year.
And our ability to increase spend is in part dependent on that as I mentioned in the factors that could influence delivery and also dependent on continued progress on overheads.
Okay.
That's helpful.
In the (indiscernible) one question.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Joe.
We'll take our next question from Olivia Tong with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Great.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Just on the outlook on sales can you talk about some of the puts and takes of the sales outlook that gets you back to plus three to four because obviously baby is a little bit lower and it'll take some time to get back to a steady state.
But it sounds like you also have a delay in some of the office consolidation which is probably giving you some cover.
So can you walk through some of those puts and takes please? Yeah.
So obviously the ODO and OMX merger Office Depot OfficeMax merger and -- what we anticipated in Q1 with respect to store closures and consolidation of networks et cetera that hasn't happened.
In the cadence we thought it would and that certainly contributed in some ways to our writing success.
We've been very engaged with Office Depot and we have a good plan in place good joint customer business plan a better one than we have last year set now for the new entity.
And we expect to have and are hopeful that if we execute well have a very very good back to school merchandising drive period across the total company.
But in particular the change in our conversations with Depot Max versus our conversions last year should strengthen our overall performance there.
So that's encouraging and that's a positive with respect to guidance relative to what we thought we would have when we first laid out our plan.
So kudos to the team for planning a path to a better discussion.
And we're hopeful that in execution it actually yields an outcome.
We're more bullish on writing overall as a result of the brand work that's going on.
We're relaunching Mr.
Sketch.
We're launching Clear Point Highlighters on new really innovative item on Sharpie.
We've got the momentum really building now on InkJoy from a share and from a geographic perspective.
We've got Finepoint Expo going to market.
We've got a lot of stuff going on in writing six months ago I would've been confident talking to you about.
The new Sharpie advertising tested extremely strong.
Three times the U.S.
national average of all ads ever tested in all industries.
Three times as effective along the metric that we look at to measure effectiveness amongst our testing partners inventory of all testing ever done.
And this is one of these testing partners that does big company testing.
Our confidence in the impact of the work of developments doing is increasing in that and that work is focused on our most strategic businesses at this point.
So writing I'm encouraged.
It's too early to high five because Q1 was an easy comp but we'll see.
So that's one of the reasons to believe.
The other reason to believe is the responsiveness of the Graco business.
So we're back in distribution now.
We've seen a nice step up.
We won't see April results for another day or so but based on the acceleration results through the month of March once we got the issues behind us  and the point of sale data I'm hopeful that we can rekindle growth faster than maybe what our core assumption and our forecast looks like.
So theres some opportunity there.
I think the step back that we experienced on Home Solutions and to a lesser degree at home centers on Rubbermaid commercial products we'll get a bounce back effect on some of the weather effects in Q2 as most of the home center guys have communicated externally.
So there's a reason to believe and that the step up in advertising support Q2 Q3 is really quite profound.
So if it doesn't work we won't do it again.
I guess it's the headline.
But I'm really going to be interested to see what kind of POS lift we get as a result of that kind of investment.
Great.
Thanks Mike.
Appreciate it.
Your final question comes from Jason Gere with KeyBanc.
Good.
I mean Thanks for squeezing me in guys.
I guess just more of a bigger picture.
I want to talk a little bit about Asia.
I mean if we think about the plan longer-term Latin America is obviously hitting its stride your Europe efforts to stabilize are working.
So when we think about the long-term organic sales or core sales in that 3% to 5% range Asia seems to be the missing ingredient.
So I was just wondering if you can maybe talk a little bit about the selling capabilities the infrastructure that is in plan to really focus on when top line acceleration will come in.
And whether some of the issues that are going on in some of the other businesses other geographies are kind of slowing down the plans to get Asia up and running in 2015? Jason our strategic thinking around this as you recall when we talked about the growth game plan at the very beginning was that we were going to increase the margin in the developed world as a mechanism for having the investment firepower to drive growth through two different means.
One is market share growth in our home markets and secondly the deployment of our portfolio to -- a selected portions of the portfolio into the faster growing emerging market in a disciplined way; first south to Latin America and next east to Asia.
So that's the narrative that we put out there and that's the plan we're executing right now with a real intense focus on scaling Latin America.
But the next horizon is it's not just China.
It's Southeast Asia and China.
We have a huge opportunity.
We dont sell anything in Indonesia.
We dont sell anything in Vietnam.
We have a limited portfolio available in the Philippines.
We have a good business in Thailand and Malaysia in writing but we don't have the rest of the portfolio there.
So there's a huge opportunity for the company.
I think it's fair to say that the next chapter of the company -- the next five year plan we'll have Asia right in the center of it.
That said we're going to begin to move to east here over the coming years.
I think with the real focus in 2016 with the start of that agenda in the late 2015 with a real interest in our win bigger categories in the baby business particularly in China for the baby business.
And so I think that's the way you should think about it.
We're in the planning stages now.
We've got a lot of work to do on route to market as you say on sourcing and on the brand.
We're focused in that work and the inside work on writing today and in China.
We're thinking about Southeast Asia on tools and commercial products where weve made progress on route to market under Curt Rahilly's leadership on commercial products.
But I do not think you should build into your models a big step up in Asia performance.
I think the window to think about that is 2016 2017 because we don't want to enter these markets in a way that's not sustainable and is not focused on building brands.
In the past we've sometimes been a little bit too opportunistic in pursuing revenue in some of these moves.
And we don't want to do that.
We want to build a business that's going to be in those countries 30 years from now not a business thats going to be there for 18 months and give us a nice pop of growth.
Okay.
Great.
This sounds like everything is on plan there.
So I'll leave at one question as well in the interest of time.
Thanks Jason.
That concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for closing remarks.
My closing remarks I think will be really focused which is I really appreciate all the challenging and the support through what's been a tough first quarter and your questions your commitment to stay connected to what it is we're doing.
It's very helpful to us as a management team as we try to chart the path forward.
So we're optimistic about what we're going to be able to deliver on the year despite the disruption we've had in Q1 and it's going to take my team fully embracing the challenge.
And from what I've seen the folks have really immersed themselves in this area and some may even relish the challenge.
So with that I'll close the call and I appreciate all the feedback and the challenge and the support.
Talk to you soon.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at 888-203-112 domestically and 719-457-0820 internationally with an access code of 6886528 starting at 12 pm Eastern Time today.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Good morning.
This is Nancy O'Donnell joining me on the call today are Mike Polk President and CEO; and Doug Martin Executive VP and CFO.
During today's call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures including but not limited to core sales and normalized EPS.
Please note that Newell has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release and in the IR portion of our website as well as on our IR app.
As we normally do we also have provided risk factors regarding forward-looking statements in our earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
While forward-looking statements are based on our best currently available information such statements include assumptions of future events that are subject to risks.
Actual results may differ materially.
We do not undertake to update any of these forward-looking statements.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Mike Polk.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining the call.
This morning we reported a strong set of Q2 results across all key metrics of course sales grew 4.6% ahead of our expectations as a result of strong growth in Writing Tools and Commercial Products.
Combined these businesses delivered core sales growth of 10%.
Normalized gross margins increased 80 basis points to 40.3% driven by increased productivity positive pricing and positive mix.
Normalized operating margin increased 90 basis points to 15.8% despite increased advertising investment of nearly 100 basis points as we more than doubled our Q2 2013 advertising investment behind new brand campaigns and innovation.
We delivered normalized net income growth of 12.6% and operating cash flow growth of nearly 52%.
We returned over $160 million to shareholders in Q2 almost double what we did last year having increased our quarterly dividend to $0.17 per share and bought back 3.9 million shares.
And we delivered normalized earnings per share of $0.59 up 18% versus prior year and $0.04 ahead of consensus.
We closed the first half 2014 with good momentum particularly on Writing Commercial Products and Tools.
Writing core sales increased 8.5% in the first half driven by market share growth in both geographies and better than expected back-to-school selling in anticipation of heavy third quarter advertising marketing and merchandising programs.
Commercial products core sales have increased by 0.3% in the first half as a result of strong volume growth in Rubbermaid Commercial Products in all regions and the return to growth of Rubbermaid Healthcare in North America in Q2.
Tools core sales increased 7.8% in the first half driven by strong volume growth on Irwin across all regions and very good growth of Lenox in North America.
These strong results in Writing Commercial Products and Tools have helped us absorb the impact of foreign exchange headwinds the disruption of the Baby &amp; Parenting recall the consequences of our strategic choices to enter certain -- exit certain product lines in Europe and reposition the Rubbermaid consumer business for profitable growth.
Through the first 6 months core sales increased 2.8% despite about 45 basis points of product line exits in Europe.
Normalized operating income margins expanded 40 basis points despite a nearly 80 basis point increase in advertising.
And normalized EPS increased to $0.94 up 10.6% versus prior year.
We're pleased with the momentum building in the business having just transitioned to our new operating model 1 year ago.
Since that change a year ago we've begun to see growth accelerate.
For the 12 months ending Q2 2014 our core growth rate has accelerated 60 basis points versus the prior 12-month period to 3.3%.
While this is good progress we're quite clear there is more opportunity in front of us than behind.
Our Project Renewal savings program is right on track and we're set to release incremental savings in the second half of 2014.
These savings are being reinvested in the business for growth just as our strengthened brand and innovation initiatives are hitting the market.
With a focused effort of our new delivery organization our global supply chain team and our operating segments are together identifying significant new opportunities in procurements overheads distribution and manufacturing network optimization and complexity reduction.
With the focused efforts of our new development organization we're already seeing the quality of our innovation improve with new products like Sharpie Clear View highlighters Paper Mate Mix and Match mechanical pencils Graco 4EVER Car Seats and Irwin impact Performance Series accessories.
We are producing new more effective advertising which has been validated in test and is now in market driving increased point of sale and market share gains across multiple geographies.
And we've launched new campaigns on Sharpie Paper Mate InkJoy Expo and Irwin and in the second half we'll launch new campaigns on Graco Mr.
Sketch and Calphalon the first advertising in years for these brands.
Clearly we are proud of our second quarter and first half performance.
With that let me hand the call over to Doug to go through a more detailed review of Q2 results and then I'll return to provide some perspective on the balance of the year and our agreement to acquire Ignite Holdings and its Contigo and Avex brands.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to provide additional details on the results of a very good second quarter for Newell.
Q2 reported net sales were $1.52 billion a 3.1% increase versus last year.
Core sales which exclude the impact of net unfavorable FX increased 4.6%.
Strong volume growth in our Writing Tools and Commercial Products businesses along with broad-based positive pricing across the business was partially offset by weaker results in the Baby and Home Solutions segment and by planned EMEA product line exits.
Reported gross margin was 40% and normalized gross margin was 40.3% up 80 basis points over last year.
This gross margin performance our best in the nearly 27 years that I've been with company reflects good productivity pricing and mix which more than offset inflation and unfavorable currency.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $372.8 million or 24.5% of sales down 10 basis points versus the prior year.
As planned we increased advertising spend by 100 basis points in the quarter to support InkJoy TV advertising in the U.S.
Latin America and Asia as well as the launch of our 50 ways to use Sharpie campaign in anticipation of back-to-school in North America.
We will continue to increase advertising investment in the back half behind our writing brands as well as campaigns on Graco Irwin and Calphalon.
Normalized operating margin was 15.8% up 90 basis points reflecting gross margin expansion and operating cost leverage partially offset by increased strategic investment in our brands and capabilities.
Reported operating margin was 14% compared with 12.6% in the prior year.
Interest expense of $15 million was flat year-over-year and our normalized tax rate was 27.2% compared with 26.6% a year ago.
We still expect the full-year normalized tax rate to be between 24% and 25%.
Normalized earnings per share which exclude restructuring and restructuring related costs and certain other onetime costs was $0.59 a $0.09 or 18% increase to last year.
Second quarter reported earnings per share were $0.54 compared with $0.37 last year.
The improvement in normalized EPS was driven by sales growth gross margin expansion a swing to a gain in net operating expense from a loss last year and lower share count partially offset by negative currency.
Based on current spike of [ph] work rates we estimate the negative impact of translational FX to be between $0.03 and $0.04 for the back half of 2014.
For the full year total negative impact of both transactional and translational FX is expected to be between $0.12 and $0.14.
Operating cash flow is $96.2 million in Q2 a $32.9 million increase over the prior year.
This is driven largely by working capital improvements.
We returned $161.2 million to shareholders during the quarter including $46.9 million of dividends and a $114.3 million and repurchased 3.9 million shares.
We stepped up our repurchase activity during the quarter to take advantage of what we believe to be an attractive price.
The lower number of shares outstanding versus last year contributed about $0.03 to EPS growth in the quarter most of that $0.03 is attributable to last year's accelerated share repurchase plan and the repurchase activity during the quarter contributed about 1/3 of a penny.
As of the end of Q2 we have $141 million available under our $300 million authorization and for the full year we are now miling an annualized average share count of approximately 279 million shares.
And finally our balance sheet remains very healthy.
We have $143 million of cash on hand and approximately $800 million in liquidity.
As previously disclosed we intend to finance the Ignite acquisition with a combination of available cash and low cost short-term borrowings.
Our debt-to-equity EBITDA multiple and interest coverage ratios continue to be strong giving us continued financial flexibility for further share repurchases or acquisitions should we choose to pursue these options.
I'll now move on to segment results.
Starting with Writing reported net sales grew 5.2% to $502.6 million.
Core sales increased 8.9%.
Our Latin America writing business delivered strong double-digit core sales growth fueled by pricing and the continued success of InkJoy.
In North America core sales grew strong mid-single digits as we were successful at shipping in a portion of our back-to-school offering earlier in anticipation of our Q3 advertising campaigns and a strong back-to-school season.
The Q2 normalized operating margin in our Writing segment was 26.6% a 70 basis point improvement over the prior year driven by strong productivity pricing and cost management partially offset by increased advertising spend.
The Home Solutions segment net sales fell by 2.6% to $388.9 million.
Core sales decreased 1.8% due to a decline of Rubbermaid consumer where we are deemphasizing some low margin businesses and in the core which is comping prior year load-ins and sizable window treatments.
Partially offsetting this decline was good growth in Calphalon driven by distribution gains.
Home Solutions' normalized operating margin was 12.4% a 110 basis points decline versus the prior year reflecting the delevaraging impact of lower sales volume and input cost inflation partially offset by productivity and reduced overhead expense.
The Tools segment delivered net sales of $222.3 million a 12.3% increase.
Core sales grew 12.9% led by double-digit growth in Latin America and EMEA with mid- single-digit growth in North America and APAC.
If you adjust for the prior year pullforward of sales into Q1 related to the SAP Brazil implementation Tool segment core sales grew 10.1% in the second quarter.
We continue to have good success in Brazil with Irwin which launched the second wave of its Brazilian tools expansion in the new product categories this quarter.
We are also seeing strength in the Linux business in North America and EMEA.
Operating margin in the Tool segment was 13.5% a 430 basis point improvement versus last year.
This increase was driven by greater operating leverage from the stronger sales growth and gross margin expansion behind pricing improved mix as well as reduced launched brands supporting Brazil versus last year.
Reported net sales in the Commercial Product segment increased 9.8% to $223.5 million.
Core sales increased 9.9%.
Rubbermaid Commercial benefited from favorable pricing and good volume growth in North America and Latin America.
The Healthcare business also contributed to the core sales improvement as we are now comping against a more representative sales pace.
Commercial product's operating margin was 16.2% a 540 basis point increase to last year thanks to leverage from higher sales and improved gross margin.
Our Baby segment reported $183.7 million in net sales a 6.4% decrease.
Core sales fell 6.7% due to weakness at Aprica in Japan which is facing increased competitive pressure and also from planned product line exits in EMEA.
Partially offsetting the decline was low single-digit growth in North America as we are seeing a rebound from the recall related softness earlier this year.
Graco has a terrific pipeline and innovation hitting the market in the back half supported by strong advertising and promotion campaigns.
We remain confident that the Baby segment will return to healthier sales trends in the back half.
Baby's Q2 normalized operating margin was 6.9% down 520 basis points to last year largely due to the deleveraging impact of lower sales a weaker yen and inflation partially offset by pricing.
Looking at Q2 sales by geography.
North America grew 3.4% with strong results from Tools Commercial Products and Writing offset by Home Solutions.
In EMEA core sales declined 80 basis points driven by planned product line exits of $6 million primarily in Writing and Baby.
If adjusted for the impact of these exits EMEA's underlying growth rate was a positive 2.5% due primarily to growth in our Tools and Writing businesses.
EMEA's operating margin results improved significantly as we are seeing strong results from the outstanding dedication and effort of our EMEA team delivering on the transformation initiatives.
In Latin America core sales grew 48.6% due to strong pricing and volume gains.
Adjusted for last year's SAP Brazil pull forward Latin America would have generated core sales growth of approximately 14%.
Finally Asia core sales showed a decline of 7.9% largely driven by Aprica.
With that I'll turn the call back to Mike.
Thanks Doug.
So now let's turn to our 2014 outlook.
This morning we reaffirmed guidance.
Core sales growth of 3% to 4% normalized operating income margin expansion of up to 40 basis points; normalized EPS of $1.94 to $2 which represents growth of 6% to 9%; and operating cash flow in the range of $600 million to $650 million.
Our full-year guidance assumes sustained strong growth in Tools and Commercial Products excellent sellout and market share growth on Writing but with a more modest second half core sales growth as well staged back-to-school retailer inventory positions are sold down.
Our return to growth on Baby &amp; Parenting behind strong innovation and marketing programs continued repositioning of the Rubbermaid consumer business within Home Solutions resulting in flat to slight growth in the second half of the year.
There are 3 factors that can influence where we fall in our 2014 full-year guidance ranges.
The first factor is the planned reignition of growth on our Baby business in the second half of 2014.
Despite the continued exit of select Baby product launch in Europe we expect to deliver solid second half growth in the combined North American and European regions driven by strong innovation and marketing investment in North America.
Our guidance assumes stabilization of our business in Japan where we have more work to do in response to a reinvigorated and strengthened competitor.
I'll be in Japan next week to see the team and agree a plan of action for the next 12 to 18 months.
Our guidance assumes low single-digit global growth in the second half on Baby with sequentially improving results from Q3 to Q4.
The second factor is foreign exchange.
In Q1 we communicated that the full-year transaction and translation ForEx impact on EPS would be negative $0.10 to $0.12 versus prior year about $0.05 to $0.06 worse than what was reflected in our original guidance largely due to the Venezuela devaluation.
Transaction ForEx has worsened by another $0.02 since that time.
This change is now reflected in our full-year guidance yielding a negative foreign exchange year-over-year EPS impact of $0.12 to $0.14.
The third factor is the impact of our increased second half marketing support on Writing point of sales growth in market share.
Our 2014 full year guidance assumes strong sellout during the July to August back-to-school drive period and typical replenishment ordering in in September on Writing.
We are well positioned against this assumption but we'll not have clarity until late Q3.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance we do expect about $15 million of Q2 net sales and $0.02 of Q2 EPS related to the writing over delivery in anticipation of the Q3 back-to-school drive period to reverse out in Q3.
All that said in light of our very strong Q2 and first half results and despite $0.07 to $0.08 worse foreign exchange versus our original full-year guidance and the first half disruption on our Baby business we now believe we can deliver normalized EPS closer to the high end of our full-year guidance range in line with our view that the underlying EPS over delivery in Q2 was $0.02 per share.
Let me now turn to our recently announced agreement to acquire Ignite Holdings.
As you know from last week's press release we hope to complete the deal sometime late in Q3.
Although the transaction will have a minimal impact on our 2014 results largely because of timing we're extremely excited about what Ignite brings to us.
The acquisition of the Contigo and Avex brands is very attractive because it strengthens one of our core businesses Home Solutions.
It provides immediate access to a fast growing on trend segment in the market.
It has leading brands that are differentiated via design and product functionality that is patent protected.
It allows us to leverage our broad-reaching business system to bring value to Ignite since its home markets are our home markets.
It is growth accretive margin accretive and EPS accretive in year 1 and last but not least it will provide a large cash tax benefit that subsidizes a meaningful portion of the purchase price.
Let me go a little deeper on the strategic rationale for the deal.
Ignite is the leading designer and marketer of on-the-go thermal and hydration beverage containers in North America.
The business is growing at a historical compound annual growth rate of greater than 35%.
And they expect to have net sales of approximately $125 million in 2014.
The durable beverage container category is large fast-growing and on trend.
This greater than $1 billion U.S.
market is growing double-digits because the products in this category support consumers increasingly active on the go lifestyle gives consumers an affordable way the save significant money by avoiding the purchase of disposable water bottles or coffee shop coffee and provide consumers a more sustainable alternative to the estimated 20 billion disposable water bottles over 20 billion paper coffee cups and nearly 25 billion styrofoam coffee cups thrown out every year in the U.S.
In today's world these trends are more and more relevant and with well-designed products that deliver great functionality the on-the-go thermal and hydration beverage container category has tremendous headroom for growth.
Importantly Contigo and Avex are well positioned to build clear market share leadership because they own unique and differentiated intellectual property that creates a product performance advantage versus the competitive set.
Though we cannot build any plans until the deal closes we can envision the future where we leverage our customer development organization's scale and reach in Ignite's core geographies to accelerate the development of the category and broaden Contigo and Avex distribution.
That we invest a portion of Ignite's profitability and leverage our marketing capability to accelerate the development of the Contigo and Avex brands.
That we apply Ignite's expertise and IP in this market to strengthen Rubbermaid's participation in category and perhaps most importantly we welcome the incredibly talented people that have built this success story into our organizations to help us replicate it in new markets beyond North America.
That's the future we envision for Ignite and Newell and we think it'll be very bright.
We will use our Analyst Day on September 24 in New York to cover our entire development agenda and we will also take the opportunity to provide more detail on the acquisition of Ignite which we hope to have completed by that time.
So let me now close with a couple of reflections.
We delivered an outstanding Q2 and a solid first half of 2014 despite all the external challenges thrown our way earlier in the year and the ongoing issues with foreign exchange in Venezuela.
We have achieved a very competitive set of results with a higher level of change than most companies even contemplate let alone drive to action.
Our team has once again done an outstanding job of simultaneously driving delivery while driving change.
We're investing behind the core activity systems critical to our business success establishing a company that unlocks the full potential of our $6 billion business rather than simply our individual brands or operating units.
We're building what we believe will be world-class capabilities in design marketing and insights supply chain and customer development.
And we've begun to apply these capabilities to strengthen our brands and accelerate our performance.
We've deployed cash back into the business to unlock the craft's capacity for growth making Newell leaner and more efficient investing a portion of those release costs into our brands for accelerated growth and allowing a portion to flow through to operating margin increases.
We strengthened our portfolio by exiting or divesting nearly $350 million of growth margin in EPS diluted businesses and now announcing an agreement to acquire a growth margin in EPS accretive business.
We've put our cash to work repurchasing nearly $0.75 billion of our own shares over the last 3 years while simultaneously increasing the annualized dividend from $0.20 per share in early 2011 to $0.68 per share today.
We're passing value back to shareholders as we create a new future for our company.
And we've generated a very competitive return for our investors through this period increasing the market capitalization of the company from just over $3 billion in late Q3 2011 to over $8.5 billion today.
We are rightly proud of our progress but more importantly we are excited by our future as we're certain that we are just now approaching the starting line and there is a much bigger value creation story to be delivered from this point forward.
We're convinced that we're firmly on track to both strengthen the company and create that upside.
That's the power of the Growth Game Plan.
With that let me pass the line to Nancy to set up Q&amp;A.
Thanks Mike.
We are aware of the fact that there are several CPG companies reporting today and so we're going to make an effort to close out our call in a timely manner.
[Operator Instructions] And we are ready our first question operator.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Nik Modi.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just -- my quick question on -- clearly you guys are looking for pretty strong back-to-school season just given some of the activity this quarter.
And it seems that this quarter the overall consumer environment has really deteriorated.
So just wanted to get your thoughts on back-to-school in general.
But also Wal-Mart has been very clear that they're planning to be very aggressive on price during the back-to-school season.
So I'm just trying to understand how that's going to affect you.
Are you co-funding any promotions? Or are you just going to get the benefit of Wal-Mart kind of taking down its own margins to get the traffic? Thanks Nick.
2 comments.
First of all I think Nancy's message was directed to me to be pithy in my answers this time.
I'll try to be focused.
Look our joint customer business plan with Wal-Mart is something we've been working on all year.
And we are quite pleased with how it's set up for back-to-school as we are with our other customers.
We take that process really seriously and it's a very granular and detailed series of conversations that get us to our merchandising plans.
And we're quite pleased with the structure we've got set up and we don't see anything unusual in the way we are funding that activity this year relative to other years.
So I deal with that question in that way.
We have very very strong advertising and marketing plans in Q3 starting really in about the middle of July.
So maybe the last week we started to go on air with heavyweights right through the beginning of September.
So that is certainly a change in our investment profile versus last year.
And in fact from an advertising standpoint in Q3 we will spend as a company more on advertising than we spent in all of 2013.
So we are serious about investing behind our brands.
We're clearly doing that in a differentiated way versus our competitive set we expected to yield the outcome that we expect with respect to POS sales growth and share increases.
That's key to us delivering our full-year number and we put it all out there to try to make that happen.
And we saw evidence in Q2 that in fact that's working.
That approach is working.
And we'll take our next question from Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital Markets.
Can you give us an idea of what you think the key is to strengthening the Home Solutions business? The key to strengthening the Home Solutions businesses is grounded in the repositioning of Rubbermaid consumer.
And we're in the midst of a pretty significant shift in what we believe our focus should be strengthening our food and beverage business strengthening our -- some other components of the business but pulling back on the less differentiated elements of the product line.
And we're going to continue to experience the challenges of that change through this year.
It was always contemplated for this year and it's really important to us for our future to get Rubbermaid into a cadence of profitably growing.
And so Connie it's at the heart of -- it's one of our biggest brand challenges and we've got a whole pipeline of ideas that we will execute over the next 12 to 18 months on that business to include leveraging some of the Ignite IP to enable Rubbermaid to participate in the fast growing beverage container market as I suggested during the earlier comments.
We'll get into this in much greater detail at the Analyst Day on the 24 where Mark and Richard and Chuck will -- and the brand teams will walk through where they're headed with Rubbermaid.
And your next question comes from Olivia Tong from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you about gross margin SG&amp;A progression through the quarter and just the sustainability of the margin improvement.
Because clearly you're running ahead of your full year target so for.
And pricing and productivity tend to be pretty sticky.
And your advertising's already up pretty dramatically in Q2.
So can you talk about margin progression in the second half? I'll give you my kind of view on gross margin.
I'm never really comfortable with where we are in gross margin.
I just think there is lot of -- we have a lot of opportunities still in front of us.
So I'm very pleased with the outcome in the first half of the year and with the progress in Q2.
And part of the surge to greater than 40% which has always been sort of one of these historical mile markers that we were holding out there the surge above 40% on the normalized basis is in part due to mix.
So as Baby recovers we'll see some drawdown on that as a result of Baby momentum.
And so I don't think 40% yet is a sustainable level of gross margins.
So as you think about your models don't plan that in.
However it gives us the encouragement that 40% is just a mile marker.
And as we continue to tackle the opportunities in the business to release cost as I suggested that the supply-chain and the operating segments were identifying we'll have more and more opportunity.
So while 40% is not sustainable at this point it certainly suggests that it will be at some point in our future.
And we're incredibly focused on this because gross margin percentage is the life blood of any consumer goods businesses.
And so we need to sustain steady progress through the year.
As you know we've made it part of the short-term incentive program for our management team and that keeps it sharply in focus.
And your next question comes from Chris Ferrara from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So look obviously fundamentals were pretty good.
I wonder if you'll go into some I guess less fundamental stuff for Venezuela for a second LatAm was up 40%.
How much -- can you take a shot at quantifying one how much pricing in Venezuela like inflationary pricing helped you? And then can you talk a little bit about the fair price rules? And the fact that your 1% of sales and 3% to 4% of profit like how are you thinking about that going forward? And what kind of an impact might that stuff be? Yes.
So we took pricing across Latin America not just in Venezuela to deal with in part of transaction ForEx issues across the whole region.
And we took to pricing and as we have been taking pricing in Venezuela to deal with issues there as you know.
Chris I can't -- I don't want to get into the specifics of exactly how Venezuela pricing contributed to the overall outcome for writing but it wasn't unsubstantial it was a meaningful part of Latin writing growth.
And it may not be sustainable at that level going forward.
So that's another variable that needs to be considered as you think about gross margin progression.
All that said we are -- we have -- very clear about where we stand relative to the margin cap loss and Doug can provide a little more detail about what's going on there in our discussions.
But we still believe we will have some pricing capacity going forward.
Yes Chris.
We've -- we're obviously working with -- working within the rules to evaluate where our pricing structure stands by product line and by channel and customer.
There's very likely to be some upward and downward adjustments to our pricing going forward.
Not overly concerned about where that may land right now.
So clearly confident there.
But -- and I guess I would say we're also seeing a little more fluidness in the currency market.
So we got some additional cash out that we've been waiting for under the old rate and we have also got some approvals of some cash back for the first time under SICAD I because our school product segment came up in the essentials market.
So we actually put in a little more inventory and will -- there'll be little more inventory in the balance sheet at the end of the year so that we've got that in place for the next year.
I think the one thing I would say Chris is in our guidance we've contemplated a more of the same posture.
We haven't gotten any indication that we would need to take a different point of view at this point unlike as I read some of the earnings releases up until this point.
Unlike some of the other things that I've read for some other folks we haven't had that type of conversation.
We will move prices up and prices down to make sure we stay in compliance.
And we may not have as much pricing leverage going forward but we don't see any -- at this point we don't see any material event.
And we'll take our next question from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk about the advertising spending increase? I just want to make sure just for modeling purposes I have the base rate.
So when you guys talk about a 90% increase? Is it a 90% increase of that sort of 2.7% of sales or $154 million from last year? And then I have a follow-up.
No you're working off a Bill you're working of a AMP when you quote 2.7%.
So you need to be working off a component of that.
So you -- don't do the math on 90% of the 2.7%.
Do it on 90% of increase on probably less than 50% of that ratio.
Okay? Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
Because it seems like even if that's the case I mean that's like an incremental sort of $50 million in the P&amp;L.
So are you just at a point where the SG&amp;A savings program the reductions are reflecting so you can invest it back or are you assuming that the uptick in sales growth is going to -- because obviously you kept to your guidance and it took us to the high end of the range.
Yes.
So we're making good progress on overheads and we're really scrutinizing the P portion of A&amp;P to make sure that it's a wise spend.
So there's an element of this that's overhead driven there is an element of this that's gross margin increase driven and there is an element of this that is driven by shifts within A&amp;P.
So we're going to make sure our money is working hard for us.
So we're 1.5 2 years into the new organization a year into the new operating model.
We're still learning as to what works and what doesn't.
And we're moving money around to make sure that we're getting a growth yield for the investments and we'll continue to learn.
Some of what we're doing this year won't work and we'll adjust it next year.
One thing I want to make clear is in Q3 because we've held our guidance on operating income margin progression.
In Q3 you will see us invest beyond the capacity of the margin increase as we get through gross margin.
So we've held the range of up to 40 basis points on the full year of operating income margin progression and here we are through the mid-year period at 40 basis points.
So I would just be aware that we're going to spend to strategically support the outcomes we believe are important in Q3 specifically which is obviously a very critical drive period.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how do you know if it's working or not and how adaptive the spending? It's very adaptive because we're an operating company now.
So Doug me Mark Bill Richard and the VPs of marketing sitting down in the room and deciding what's working and what's not.
And what the segment presidents suggest to buy -- adjust where we're going to spend it.
And nothing's static.
We're living in a dynamic resource management environment in an operating company.
In a holding company that would've been impossible to do because all the resources were pushed out.
If we want to adjust we adjust.
So if think we've got -- Mr.
Sketch's advertising which I don't know if you've seen it's just extraordinary.
If that's going to yield a pot we'll shift money midstream to that.
So that's the beauty of operating the way we are today.
So it's a very flexible model in that sense.
And we want to be nimble we're a relatively small company at $6 billion.
We want to leverage that for competitive advantage.
Against in what's the power that $6 billion company but the flexible nature of an operating company to dynamically deploy the resources against the best opportunities.
And we're doing that.
And your next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask a little bit about commercial products.
So outside of Healthcare flattening out and turning positive it does seem like perhaps you hit an inflection point in the balance of the business with some of the investments you've made in selling and new product development finally kicking in.
Is that a fair interpretation of results? And if so how sustainable is it.
Is it a matter of contract kicking in the selling cycle? I just want some color there.
Yes it's a combination of things.
So as you know we've invested in selling resources on Tools and on Commercial Products in Latin America in late 2012 into 2013.
Those feet on the street are yielding growth.
And that is -- suggests I think we're at the early stages of that impact still.
In North America I'm not sure we've talked about that -- this part of things that explicitly.
But we also reoriented our Customer Development Organization when we took all the top heavy elements out and focused our selling activities in North America as 1 company released a bunch of money that we invested back into more feet on the street in our distributive sales organization.
And that clearly is helping us in commercial products and on Lenox in North America where that's -- that is where a lot of selling activity happens.
So we're getting a growth yield on those investments.
Now importantly on Tools we've got a big innovation agenda in Latin America where we initiated 1 wave of extending the Tool Belt as we call it.
In Brazil last year we executed the second wave.
The first wave is now being broadened across Latin America.
The portfolio is being broadened across Latin America.
And on Commercial Products we've had a fair amount of innovation Executive Series which we've exposed to you is yielding great traction right now as we push Rubbermaid Commercial Products into 5-star hotels.
And so it's a combination of things.
It's both selling and innovation.
I wouldn't say it's a big advertising investment on these business it's more winning on the ground through our sales organization and better innovation.
And your next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I'll go back to the margin question.
And obviously there's a huge amount of variability across your segments in terms of your operating margin.
But if I look even just on an annual basis over the last 5 years almost all of your margin expansion your total margin expansion has come from the Writing segment.
So I guess question #1 is the writing profitability nearly 27%.
That number specifically do you think that is sustainable or even expandable? And when you look at the other segments where you really haven't seen any margin expansion on the sustainable basis over last few years do you think there is more restructuring? Is that cost cutting? Is it just product mix within this segment's and a gross margin issue? Because I'm trying to get comfortable that come the analyst meeting you're going to be able to say yes margin expansion is going to be broader and across the segments as opposed to concentrated in that 1 segment.
Yes it's a good question.
So we obviously believe it is but the unlock comes with further work on costs.
The nice thing we've seen on both tools and commercial products we put the cost we added cost in for selling investment that I was just referring to.
Last year we accepted margin step backs for the sake of scaling the business.
And we're starting to see the return for that investment now with the growth rates.
And as we hold those fixed costs flat they'll flow through to our margin.
But we have more work to do clearly.
Renewals not done we're identifying new opportunities.
Our overhead structures are still too heavy as a company even though we've made great progress.
And we're quite clear that we have a lot more work to do on cost and a lot more work to do to make the company lean and efficient in front of us.
And that will release the fuel for growth and a portion of that will flow through the margin more broadly than it has to date.
I feel good about progress we've made this year on Commercial Products and Tools and I would expect that to continue going forward.
We stepped back on Baby where we've also up until this period in time we've made significant progress on Baby margins more than doubling that business's profitability and we're dealing with the consequences of the recall and some other issues.
And then in Europe if you look at our European operating income margin we are well into double-digits now on Europe.
And very very pleased having come from no margin in that geography to a very consequential margin structure that also flows through the EPS at a higher rate because of our efficient tax structure in Europe.
So I think we're making good progress but Wendy the challenge is right on we're not where we want to be or where we have the potential to be which is why I always say there is still way more in front of us than behind.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just with regard to Europe specifically can you remind us of what's the product mix within that region? Because I know that's an important driver of the margins as well.
Yes.
So Writing and Tools obviously very important to us in that region and we have exited a series of unprofitable Baby businesses and a portion of the Fine Writing business that was less profitable.
So as we pivot our portfolio to what we formally called Whacky which was brands like Paper Mate or Reynolds or Berol or Sharpie.
We end up with a mix benefit that flows through to the P&amp;L or Dymo we end up with a mix benefit that flows through the P&amp;L.
And obviously we are playing our portfolio to win and maximize the contribution of Europe to our overall company's performance.
And Europe right now is playing a role of fueling the growth in both our home markets of North America and the Latin expansion that we're investing beyond.
And your next question comes from Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> The core sales growth was obviously strong in the quarter and a difficult environment in general.
I'm just wondering how much of a role you think the higher marketing in Q2 had in that topline result or if you take the topline boost from marketing really still yet to come in the back half of the year and as you look into 2015 particularly given the Q3 ad spend focus you mentioned? And then the success you've had in Latin America and at least the selling success on the writing side does that increase your confidence on the topline payback from higher marketing? We I think Dara it's a good question.
We don't -- we have yet to see the full value for the investments we started to make in really middle of Q2 from May onwards.
We see it in the share numbers.
We see it in the sellout numbers.
And it's certainly sort of the lubricant that enabled a strong sell in to back-to-school.
Importantly we see very good growth on Tools and Commercial Products which again I think is selling and innovation driven rather than investment driven.
Q3 will be the real test whether we get a return on this.
And if we do we should see a relatively good sell in September after the events.
And we should see a more broader impact as we start to invest on brands like Graco in Q3 and brands like Calphalon in Q4.
And so we have not seen -- we have not yet seen the sustainable growth acceleration to 4-plus percent type of growth rates.
That's still in front of us Q2 was encouraging.
Part of Q2 as we said was related to the over delivery of the sell in connected to the strong Q3 plans we've got.
But it's encouraging to see some of the results we're delivering in the context of all the portfolio strengthening moves we're making.
Remember we're exiting roughly $25 million of business in Europe.
We are repositioning Rubbermaid Consumer which is effectively a step back in that business.
We've been pulling back on Calphalon Electrics because we believe the core of that brand is in Cookware and not in Electrics.
And that's yielding some valuable margin improvement for that business but also we'd continue to grow on Calphalon despite those pullbacks.
So you've got these down elevators that are in our core numbers because we don't separate them out.
That gives us encouragement that the forward-looking growth rates have potential to accelerate.
But it's going to take the investment we're putting in and we will get a read on that in the back half of the year as to whether that strengthens our ability to deliver sustained growth at greater than 4%.
And your next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I want to sort of I guess look at the flip side of Chris's question which is with Latin America driving so much of the core sales growth it does sort of hide the fact that the rest of the world will particularly be stripped out the Q2 writing benefit wasn't quite as strong as the overall number would appear.
So can you talk to us a little bit about how we should see the rest of the world progressing as we go through the year sort of trying to strip the Q2 writing benefit out.
And what's the glide path on Asia getting better on the Baby care business and also Europe as well? Yes.
We feel terrific about Europe's contribution ex-exits we're getting close to flat on our performance there.
I think you should expect more of the same in the back half of the year on Europe as we continue to exit the less profitable portions of that portfolio.
In Asia we're not investing a lot of energy in those markets yet.
In China and then Southeast Asia there is terrific opportunity there but we're really playing for as we've said strategically we're going to focus on Latin America first and then go east to Asia.
That's more of a late '15 2016 timeframe as we think about those geographies.
So we want to try to hold our own there although we're prepared to accept some declines in those markets rather than dilute the investment profile in North America and in Latin America.
We have a long road to go still much more upside in Latin America.
And we continue -- we will continue to play for that.
Our growth algorithm if you recall pivoted on 2 things: building our share position in our home markets and extending our geographic footprint first to Latin America and then to Asia.
And that's the algorithm we're executing.
As we move forward into 2015 as we head closer to providing guidance we'll bring in China a bit of a brighter light on how we think that story will evolve by geography.
Your specific question on Japan Baby -- we'll -- we have work to do there.
So we're dealing with a different competitor and competitive environment than what we've dealt with for the last 2.5 years.
A more assertive competitor not just on price but through innovation.
And so we have to up our game in Japan and that's not a quick light switch that's something that's going to take sequential investment and will take some time for us to turn.
So we expect that to be a challenge for a period of time.
But it's all hands on deck.
And as I said I'm going over on Monday to sit with the team.
Richard will be there Bill will be with me Laurel Hurd who is the President of Baby will be there as well.
And we'll be working with the local team to figure out how to get back the momentum that we have lost in Japan.
And your next question comes from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Since we're talking about Baby I guess I'll start there.
Looks like 2Q was a little bit softer than we thought.
Was curious what that looked like versus your internal expectations.
And then Mike you sound a little less sanguine on the back half obviously more competition in Japan.
But has there been any sort of hangover from the recall at Graco? And then 1 other one if I could sneak it in on Healthcare sounds like its returning to growth this quarter.
Was that an anomaly or do you think that's really a start of a trend? So on Baby we had slight growth in North America in the second quarter which is important after a tough first quarter during the recall.
There is still a lot of moving parts in the business in Q2 on Baby and especially in the context of the infantry call in early July.
So it's been a volatile quarter or 2 for that business in North America.
We have an incredibly strong pipeline of activity coming on Baby in North America for the balance of the year and for the first time in a long long time we'll be advertising the brand in the back half of the year.
So we believe those activities in concert with the terrific customer relationships we've got will return the North American business to nice growth in the back half of the year.
Europe we'll continue to exit so I think that will continue to step back.
We're very very happy with the progress we've made on Baby strategically and we expect that to get back on into a rhythm of constructive performance.
On Healthcare we're encouraged by Healthcare.
I think there was a period of time where hospitals were really holding tight on their capital budgets.
We see a little bit of loosening there.
Do I think we return to the 30% 40% type of growth rates that we had in 2012 into 2013 no.
But we expect in the back half of the year to have a nice growth on Healthcare as we continue to develop that business.
We've taken our first step to take our Healthcare platform into a new country in Brazil where we've launched an initiative a hospital network down there to see whether we can in a sustainable way deliver an extended Healthcare platform beyond North America.
And we'll see how that plays out.
And our next question comes from Jason Gere KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You know what? Main questions have been answered so I'll just ask -- I'll talk to Nancy offline with a few other questions.
Okay Jason.
And your next question comes from Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And most of my questions have been answered just let me ask for a little bit more color on project for Newell and maybe what savings have been done today and where they're focused and where Project Renewal now remains for the balance of this project? Sure.
Budd this is Doug.
We're right on track actually we're ahead of plan on Project Renewal.
We've delivered well over $200 million worth of savings on the program to date for both renewal 1 and renewal 2.
And by the end of the year we'll be in the range that we said from a savings perspective with another 6 months to go.
So we feel very good about the progress we're making and we are also thankful we have it.
Because you know we've run into some FX challenges over last couple of years and so that's been very helpful for us.
And we've also been able to invest back into the business.
So right on track.
And just 1 to build on that.
So I think there is a lot more cost opportunity in front of us as you know I have said publicly we'll spent 50 60 basis points per year in restructuring going forward beyond renewal.
So I want to make sure people don't lose sight of that in their models as they think about how we developed the business.
We're going to have more as we get into this cost opportunity space there's just more and more opportunity every day.
So I just want to make sure I put that marker out there and remind folks of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what kind of costs are you doing in your renewal.
Just right now I mean are they product line exits? How are you looking at that? It's mostly overhead related change at this point.
Some fixed costs in Europe around consolidating our distribution network and our customer service network.
But it's mostly overhead related and infrastructure related as we build out stronger global functions in the 4 areas that we said would be our winning capabilities: design and R&amp;D marketing and insights customer development and the supply chain.
And your final question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to circle back to Ignite and the acquisition there.
And just kind of from a philosophical standpoint why was everything you've done behind the scenes creating a new R&amp;D facility putting money behind all the new products.
Why couldn't you have entered these categories on your own? I mean why pay what was probably the healthy multiple for this type of business? And then what does it kind of say about future acquisitions that you're looking at? And where are the areas where this is a necessary step? Yes.
That's a great question.
We're -- the strategic rationale for -- one of the pieces of strategic rationale for this deal is that it accelerates our ability to participate in what's 1 of the fastest-growing segments of the housewares category.
We were doing our own development work in this space.
But these companies these smaller companies have been out there for 10 years kind of building their capabilities in this area and had established presence.
It would have taken us probably 18 months to 2 years to really scale our activity.
So this jumpstarts our participation that's 1 piece of the puzzle.
The other thing that excited us about Ignite is that they got a couple of pieces of intellectual property that we think are very valuable in this category and enable the creation of differentiated products relative to the competitive set.
So we've got a fast growing category.
The deal accelerates our participation and it gives us access to IP which we can leverage across our business.
And so those are the things that converge to make this interesting.
Now that alone wouldn't have been enough to of course it's growth accretive margin accretive EPS accretive.
And by the way the multiple when you adjust for the cash tax benefit is quite attractive.
So I think this is 1 that kind of met all of our criteria.
To be honest with you I'm not sure we'll find as many that check every box but this one happened to do it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just a follow-up.
Are there other areas I mean is it more on the consumer side where you're looking for these type of things to accelerate? Or is it across the whole spectrum of businesses? Yes.
So Bill what we've said is we want to complement our organic agenda that's captured in the Growth Game Plan with ideas that the strategic acquisitions that enables us to scale our 5 core categories.
So we're not interested in 6 business or extending the shoulders of our portfolio.
We're interested in winning in the core and strengthening our portfolio in the core.
Now the vast majority of our investments and our activity are going to be focused through the launch of the Growth Game Plan on organic growth and development.
However we're going to -- when we see a good opportunity to accelerate our participation that creates a lot of value for shareholders we're going to go forward and apply some of our capital that way.
The best acquisition obviously we've made in years has been the buyback of our own stock over the last 3 years.
And so that's -- that fact is not lost on us.
So we'll be discriminating in the choices we make because we don't want -- because we continue to believe that there is -- that we're undervalued and we have a line of sight to the opportunity connected to the cost agenda.
That is quite clear now and compelling.
And so we'll find -- we'll strike the right balance between all of these choices as we think about capital allocation to maximize value.
Our interests as a management team are aligned with our investors' interests in that respect.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Polk for closing remarks.
I'll just make a couple and I think we've probably lost those vast majority of the folks that were listening.
But we're very pleased with Q2 strong set of results.
We've delivered a solid set of first half results that give us the confidence to suggest that despite the headwinds associated with a much worse foreign exchange environment than we anticipated coming in the year and despite the issues created by the external events connected to Baby in the first quarter we can now suggest that our EPS will deliver towards the high end of the range.
Strategically we feel like we're making good great progress driving the Growth Game Plan into action and that's beginning to impact the rate of growth in the business.
And importantly we're putting our capital to work to complement a strong organic agenda defined by the Growth Game Plan with external development now with the announced acquisition of Ignite.
We feel terrific about the team done an incredible job driving delivery while simultaneously driving change.
And that gives us the confidence that we're on track to create a brighter future for our company.
That's all I'd say.
I think I'd welcome everybody to come on September 24 to our Analyst Day in New York where we'll do a deep dive on our development agenda and the Ignite acquisition which hopefully will be completed by that point in time.
Thanks so much.
Have a great day.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com.
And on digital replay at (888) 203-1112 domestically and (719) 457-0820 internationally with an access code of 8825158 starting at 12:00 p.m.
Eastern time today.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaid's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events &amp; Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
This is Nancy O'Donnell.
Joining me on our call are Mike Polk our President and CEO; and John Stipancich our EVP and Interim CFO.
We appreciate you joining us today.
We remind you that this conference call will include references to certain non-GAAP financial measures including core sales and normalized EPS.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures with the most comparable measures in accordance with GAAP is available in the earnings release and on the IR portion of our website as well as on our IR app.
This call also will contain forward-looking statements reflecting our outlook for future periods.
Due to the uncertainty of these forward-looking statements actual results may materially differ from current expectations.
An explanation of related risks and uncertainties is provided in our earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update these statements.
And now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Mike Polk.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Over the last few weeks we've announced a series of strategic initiatives that are important to note in advance of our discussion of results.
First on the heels of the completion of the Ignite Holdings acquisition in September we have recently completed the acquisition of another leading marketer of on-the-go hydration and thermal products bubba brands inc.
These acquisitions establish Newell as the leader in the key channels of the fast-growing on-the-go hydration and thermal beverage container category in North America.
We also announced our board's decision to undertake the next phase of Project Renewal one that will generate an incremental $200 million of annualized savings by the end of 2017.
And finally this morning we announced our intention to hold for sale our Calphalon outlet stores and Calphalon Electrics business and our Endicia online postage business.
These strategic choices are designed to strengthen our portfolio increase the growth potential of the company and improve our margins.
In our discussions of results we will treat Endicia and the Calphalon businesses as discontinued ops.
We delivered a solid set of results in the third quarter.
Core sales grew 2.7%.
Importantly in our Win Bigger businesses of Writing Commercial Products and Tools we grew core sales 7.5%.
Normalized gross margin increased 140 basis points to 39.2% driven by positive mix and positive pricing partially offset by meaningful foreign currency headwinds.
Strong gross margin delivery enabled us to more than double advertising support versus prior year.
And despite the resulting 190 basis point increase in SG&amp;A normalized operating margin decreased only by 50 basis points to 14.3%.
Normalized EPS was $0.58 an increase of 11.5% versus prior year and $0.03 ahead of consensus.
Operating cash flow was $339 million and we'll return over $150 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases 65% greater than prior year.
We made continued progress on our Win Bigger businesses in Q3.
Writing core sales increased 8.3% driven by market share growth in most geographies as a result of stronger innovation and heavy third quarter advertising marketing and merchandising programs.
Year-to-date Writing core sales have increased 8.5%.
Tools core sales increased 2.3% driven by strong volume growth on Irwin in Europe Latin America and Asia Pacific and very good growth of Lenox in North America.
Irwin sales in North America declined as a result of slower -- a slower-than-expected distribution center transition in the U.S.
Year-to-date Tools core sales have increased 5.8%.
Commercial Products core sales increased 11.3% in Q3 as a result of strong innovation and volume growth in the U.S.
Brazil and China.
Year-to-date Commercial Products core sales have increased 7.3%.
Combined these 3 Win Bigger businesses grew core sales 8.8% over the last 6 months and 7.6% year-to-date.
The strong results in Writing Commercial Products and Tools have helped us absorb the disruption of first half Baby &amp; Parenting harness buckle recalls the challenge from accelerating foreign exchange headwinds and the impact of our strategic choices to exit certain product lines in Europe reposition the Rubbermaid Consumer business for profitable growth and to pull back on less profitable Black Friday merchandising across Home Solutions and Baby in the U.S.
Through the first 9 months core sales increased 2.9%.
Normalized operating income margins expanded 20 basis points to 14.0% despite over 100 basis point increase in advertising and significant foreign exchange headwinds.
Normalized EPS increased to $1.51 up 11% versus prior year.
This earnings outcome has been enabled by significant Project Renewal savings disciplined overhead management positive pricing and more aggressive share repurchase activity.
We're pleased with the building momentum in the business having transitioned to our new operating model a little over a year ago.
Since that change we began to see growth accelerate and margins simultaneously increase.
While proud of the progress we're certain there is more opportunity to be captured in front of us.
In that context and as announced this morning the board has authorized the investment of $200 million as part of the next phase of Project Renewal which we expect to release an incremental $200 million of annualized savings by the end of 2017.
Our leadership teams have identified significant new opportunities in procurement distribution manufacturing shared services and other overhead.
We plan to deliver these savings by tackling the significant complexity in our business and simplifying the way we bring our products to market.
The majority of these new savings will be reinvested behind the strong innovation funnel we profiled at our Analyst Day in late September and increasingly to the development of our capabilities and the deployment of our portfolio into the faster-growing emerging markets of Latin America and then Asia.
Cumulatively we now expect Project Renewal to generate between $470 million and $525 million in annualized savings by the end of 2017.
So we're pleased with our third quarter and year-to-date performance.
We're well on our way to delivering a solid 2014 and more importantly setting the stage for an even stronger 2015.
With that let me hand the call over to John to go through a more detailed review of Q3 results.
And then I'll return to provide some perspective on the balance of the year the phasing of delivery in 2015 and some comments on our acquisition of bubba brands.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
Before I begin I'd like to remind everyone that effective Q3 we reclassified the Endicia online postage business and the Calphalon outlets and Electrics into discontinued operations.
The results of these businesses are reported separately as discontinued operations in the company's financial statements and my comments will focus primarily on results from continuing operations.
The restated normalized quarterly EPS numbers for 2014 are available on our earnings presentation on our Investor Relations website and the complete quarterly restated results for 2013 and '14 will be uploaded to our website in the near future.
Q3 reported net sales were $1.48 billion a 1.3% increase versus last year.
The Ignite acquisition contributed 60 basis points to net sales.
Core sales which exclude the impact of foreign currency and acquisitions increased 2.7%.
Strong volume growth in Commercial Products and Writing along with broad-based positive pricing drove the growth partially offset by declines in Baby and Home Solutions and by planned EMEA product line and country exits.
Reported gross margin was 38.8% and normalized gross margin was 39.2% up 140 basis points over last year.
This improvement was driven by pricing and favorable mix which more than offset input cost inflation and unfavorable currency.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $369 million or 24.9% of sales up 190 bps versus the prior year.
We increased A&amp;P spend in the quarter by nearly 150 basis points as a percentage of sales driven primarily by TV advertising in Writing to support Paper Mate InkJoy Mr.
Sketch Sharpie Neon and Sharpie Clear View.
We also invested in marketing campaigns at RCP behind BRUTE and the HYGEN microfiber launch and advertising in Baby to support the introduction of our new 4Ever Car Seat.
Normalized operating margin was 14.3% down 50 basis points reflecting significant increased strategic investment in our brands and capabilities which was partially offset by strong gross margin expansion.
Reported operating margin was 11.7% compared with 12.2% in the prior year.
Interest expense of $14.3 million declined $1.4 million year-over-year.
Note though that interest expense will tick up in Q4 as a result of the financing of our 2 recent acquisitions.
Our normalized tax rate was 19.5% compared with 24.3% a year ago due to the recognition of discrete tax benefits this quarter.
We now expect the full year normalized tax rate to land right around 24%.
Normalized EPS which excludes restructuring and restructuring-related costs and certain other onetime costs was $0.58 an 11.5% increase to last year.
On a reported basis third quarter EPS was $0.44 compared with $0.66 last year but you'll probably remember that we recorded about a $0.26 gain on the sale of our Hardware business last year which is the primary driver of the year-over-year decrease.
I'll now move on to the segment results.
Starting with Writing reported net sales grew 2.5% to $453.2 million.
Core sales increased 8.3%.
Our Latin America Writing business again delivered strong double-digit core sales growth fueled by pricing and the continued success of InkJoy due to expanded distribution and TV advertising.
We also benefited this quarter from about $15 million in pre-buys in advance of our October 1 SAP Go-live in Mexico and Venezuela.
In North America core sales grew low-single digits even after taking into account the $15 million of sales that were pulled into Q2 from Q3 from earlier Back-to-School shipments.
Our strong innovation and marketing campaigns helped drive planogram gains and good Back-to-School performance in North America.
The Q3 normalized operating margin in our Writing segment was 24.1% a 40 basis point decrease over the prior year.
And strong productivity pricing and cost management were more than offset by our increased advertising spend.
Net sales in our Home Solutions segment declined 1.4% to $417 million.
Core sales decreased 3.2% driven primarily by the exit of some low-margin Rubbermaid Consumer business and the comping of the 2013 Black Friday promotions that we chose not to repeat this year as the economics were not that attractive.
We did generate good growth in the Rubbermaid food and beverage business.
Home Solutions normalized operating margin was 15.3% a 60 basis point decrease reflecting input cost inflation and increased advertising partially offset by pricing.
The Tools segment delivered net sales of $214.8 million a 2% increase.
Core sales grew 2.3%.
Tools grew in all our international geographies particularly in Latin America where we regenerated double-digit growth.
Our Irwin North America business showed a year-over-year decline as shipments were constrained in September due to a slower-than-expected distribution center transition.
We expect Tools North America to be back to a more normal run rate in the fourth quarter.
Normalized operating margin in the Tools segment was 10.9% a 510 basis point improvement versus last year.
This increase was driven by gross margin expansion behind improved mix productivity and pricing and a reduction of brand support in North America during the Tools distribution center transition.
Reported net sales in the Commercial Products segment increased 11.1% to $218 million.
Core sales increased 11.3% driven by pricing and strong volume growth in North America as well as expanded distribution in Latin America and growth in Asia.
Commercial Products operating margin was 12.6% a 60 basis point increase to last year thanks to pricing productivity and a favorable channel mix.
Our Baby segment reported $181.5 million in net sales a 6.5% decrease.
Core sales fell 5.8% a portion of which reflects planned product line and country exits in Europe.
Aprica Japan continues to be challenged by increased competitive pressure.
And in North America core sales were flat.
We saw positive momentum at point of sale generated by our new Graco innovation and our advertising and promotion campaigns but the year-over-year selling comp was tempered by some inventory rebalancing at retail.
Baby's Q3 normalized operating margin was 5.8% down 690 basis points to last year largely due to unfavorable mix increased A&amp;P spend in North America and a weaker yen partially offset by pricing.
Looking at Q3 sales core sales by geography.
North America grew 0.6% with strong results from Commercial Products and Writing.
In EMEA core sales declined 2.9% driven by planned product line and country exits of about $5 million primarily in Writing and Baby.
If adjusted for the impact of these exits EMEA's core sales increased slightly due primarily to growth in our Tools and Writing businesses.
Our operating margins in EMEA improved significantly as we're realizing the benefits of our transformation initiatives in the region.
In Latin America core sales grew 33.3% due to strong pricing and volume gains in Writing and Tools.
Adjusted for the SAP sales pull-forward from Q4 into Q3 Latin America core sales growth was approximately 19%.
Finally Asia core sales grew 1.1% as solid growth from Commercial Products and Tools was partially offset by declines in Aprica.
Moving on to cash and the balance sheet.
Our operating cash flow was $339.2 million in Q3 compared with $360.8 million in the prior year.
Year-to-date operating cash flow was $343.3 million versus $301 million last year.
We returned $150.2 million to shareholders during the quarter including $46.3 million in dividends and $103.9 million to repurchase 3.3 million shares.
The repurchase activity during the quarter contributed about $0.005 to Q3 results.
At the end of Q3 we have $37 million available under our authorized $300 million open market repurchase plan.
For the full year 2014 we're now modeling an annualized average share count of approximately 279 million shares.
And finally our balance sheet remains very healthy.
We have $132.6 million of cash on hand and about $640 million in liquidity.
We financed the recent bubba acquisition with a combination of available cash and low-cost short-term borrowings.
Our debt-to-equity EBITDA multiple and interest coverage ratios continue to be strong giving us significant financial flexibility for further share repurchases or acquisitions should we choose to pursue these opportunities.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Mike.
Thanks John.
So let's now turn to our 2014 outlook.
As we told you at Analyst Day we're tracking towards the low end of our core sales growth range of 3% to 4% the middle of our normalized operating income range of up to 40 basis points expansion the high end of the normalized EPS range of $1.94 to $2 per share and the middle of the operating cash flow range of $600 million to $650 million.
This morning we reaffirmed our prior guidance.
Our 2014 full year guidance assumes the following for the fourth quarter: the negative effect of worsening foreign exchange and the dilution related to the businesses held for sale; a return to mid-single-digit growth on Tools as the U.S.
distribution center ramps to speed and we recover most of the lost sales from Q3; sustained strong growth in Commercial Products but a pullback to low-single-digit growth in Writing as the Venezuela and Mexico SAP timing impact in Q3 reverses out in Q4; stabilization of core sales in Home Solutions as continued repositioning of the Rubbermaid Consumer business is offset by sustained momentum in Food Storage; and a sequential improvement on Baby as building U.S.
growth is partially offset by continued exits in Europe.
There are 2 factors that could influence where we fall in our 2014 full year guidance ranges.
The first factor is the planned recovery of growth on our Baby business.
We expect Baby to stabilize in Q4 despite continued European exits and tough conditions in Japan.
The key variable that will shape the Q4 Baby outcome is how quickly strengthening POS growth rates in the U.S.
driven by strong innovation and new advertising translate into core sales growth.
Q3 POS in the U.S.
increased about 5% versus prior year and POS growth rates in the first 4 weeks of Q4 have strengthened further.
In Q3 key retailer rebalancing of Baby inventories and our choice to not repeat some low-margin Black Friday deals from the prior year tempered core sales growth.
Our guidance assumes the negative inventory rebalancing effect on growth lessens through Q4 and sell-in rates and sell-out rates converge in the U.S.
by Q1 2015.
The second factor is foreign exchange.
We've experienced increasingly difficult foreign exchange conditions through the year sequentially increasing our view of the 2014 adverse foreign exchange impact on normalized EPS from our beginning of the year guidance of $0.04 to $0.07 per share to our latest view of about $0.17 per share which is about $0.01 worse than our last updated Analyst Day.
The team has done an excellent job dynamically managing our business in the context of this significant headwind.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance let me highlight a few ins and outs affecting our Q4 delivery versus prior year.
On the positive side Q4 EPS will benefit from solid growth improved gross margin tight overhead management reduced share count and the addition of Ignite and bubba to the portfolio.
On the more challenging side Q4 EPS will be adversely impacted by the mix effect of low-single-digit Q4 Writing growth negative foreign exchange $0.01 of EPS dilution related to the earnings of the businesses taken to discontinued operations and the absence of nearly $0.045 per share of tax benefit in the prior year period related to discrete items that we do not expect to repeat in 2014.
Importantly despite all the moving parts we still expect to track to the high end of our full year guidance range of $1.94 to $2 per share.
As you know we established our initial 2015 guidance for core sales growth and normalized EPS at our Analyst Day in late September.
We reaffirmed that guidance today.
Let me make a few comments regarding the phasing of next year's sales and earnings.
Our 2015 core sales full year guidance range is 3.5% to 4% growth.
While we should have a relatively strong first quarter due to the absence of the year-ago challenges we expect core sales to be near the low end of the full year range in the first half of 2015 and near the high end of the full year range in the second half of 2015.
The highest core growth rate quarter should be Q4 when Ignite and bubba growth will both be recognized in our core sales metric.
The lowest core growth rate quarter should be Q2 related to a shift of some Back-to-School shipments on Writing from Q2 back to Q3.
The phasing of normalized EPS growth also skews toward the back half of the year driven by 2 factors.
First nearly 2/3 of the $0.13 to $0.15 adverse foreign exchange impact is expected to occur in the first half of the year with the most significant impact in Q1.
Second we expect to increase advertising and promotion by over $50 million in 2015 with the majority of the incremental investment occurring in the first 6 months of the year.
The net effect of these factors is that we expect the year-over-year first half normalized EPS growth rate to be lower than the year-over-year growth rate in the second half of 2015.
And importantly we're prepared to accept flat year-over-year EPS growth in Q1 2015 in order to set up the right long-term quarterly A&amp;P spending profile for our business.
To be clear our 2015 full year guidance for normalized EPS of $2.16 to $2.22 remains unchanged.
Let me now turn to bubba.
Of all our brands I have to confess to enjoy saying bubba the most.
I've noticed the same dynamic with folks in the office I don't think it's just me.
There must be a little bit of bubba in all of us and that's why the brand makes us smile.
Although the bubba transaction will have a minimal impact on our 2014 results largely because of timing we're extremely excited about what this acquisition brings to us.
bubba is a leading brand in the durable on-the-go hydration and thermal beverage container category.
The brand is well recognized for its iconic head-shaped designs in the U.S.
food drug and mass channels and has a very strong presence at a couple of key retailers.
The bubba product line fits perfectly with our Contigo Avex and Rubbermaid brand portfolio bringing penetration in key channels and across price tiers that we can now leverage to grow our total set of branded offerings.
bubba has enjoyed strong growth over the past few years and has a very loyal user base.
Over 80% of bubba consumers are repeat purchasers.
Like the acquisition of Contigo and Avex bubba is very attractive because it strengthens one of our core businesses Home Solutions; it strengthens our presence in a fast-growing on-trend segment of the market; it allows us to leverage our broad-reaching business system to bring value to bubba since its home markets are our home markets; and it's growth accretive normalized OI margin accretive and normalized EPS accretive in year 1.
And last but not least bubba provides a meaningful cash tax benefit that subsidizes a sizable portion of the purchase price.
The bubba acquisition was completed on October 22 and we'll consolidate results as part of the Home Solutions segment starting in Q4.
So let me now close with a couple of reflections.
I'm proud of the way our people have delivered results in a tough environment.
The team has made tremendous progress navigating the turbulence of the first half of the year related to weather in North America and the Baby harness buckle recalls.
Through 9 months core sales growth is 2.9% and has accelerated to 3.7% over the last 6 months.
Importantly the team has been fearless in protecting the significant incremental investment we're making in our brands despite having to overcome $0.17 per share of adverse foreign exchange impact on margins and EPS.
They've done well by managing overheads tightly driving gross margin increases across our portfolio and with the benefit of more aggressive share repurchase activity delivering both the investment increase our brands needed and a strong EPS outcome.
Through 9 months normalized operating income margin have increased 20 basis points despite more than doubling our advertising investment and normalized EPS has increased 11%.
These are strong competitive results and we've delivered them while simultaneously driving change.
We are in the thick of the strategic phase of the Growth Game Plan investing behind the core activities critical to our business success.
Establishing an operating company that unlocks the full potential of our $6 billion business rather than simply our individual brands or our individual operating units.
We're building what we envision will be world-class capabilities in design marketing and insights supply chain and customer development.
And we've begun to apply these capabilities to strengthen our brands and accelerate our performance as you saw on our recent Analyst Day.
We've deployed cash back into the business through Project Renewal to unlock the trapped capacity for growth making Newell leaner and more efficient.
Investing a significant portion of those savings into our brands for accelerated growth while allowing a portion to flow through to increased operating margin.
And with the announcement of the next phase of Project Renewal we now expect to deliver about $0.5 billion of cumulative annualized savings by the end of 2017.
At the same time as building new capabilities and unlocking the trapped capacity for growth we've strengthened our portfolio by exiting or divesting nearly $400 million of less attractive or less strategically relevant businesses and now acquiring nearly $200 million of growth- margin- and EPS-accretive businesses focused in the core of our portfolio.
We've also put cash to work repurchasing nearly $900 million of our own shares over the last 3.5 years while simultaneously increasing the annualized dividend from $0.20 per share in early 2011 to $0.68 per share today.
And as we create this new future for our company we're simultaneously creating value for our shareholders increasing the market capitalization of the company from just over $3 billion in late Q3 2011 to over $9 billion today.
We're proud of our progress but more importantly we're excited by the future.
There's a much bigger value-creation story still to be created and we're convinced that we're on track to both strengthen the company and create that upside.
That's the power of the Growth Game Plan and the new Newell Rubbermaid.
With that let me pass the line to the operator for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit about this Tools distribution center issue.
Just I guess I want to make sure I understood correctly that you said you expect to recapture the lost sales.
So is there a sort of pent-up orders that you're expecting to ship to meet in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Lauren so let me describe what we are doing.
We're moving the DC from Indianapolis to the Southeast part of the U.S.
And we have a start-up curve we envisioned occurring and it didn't deliver to our expectations.
And so we were constrained in terms of our shipment activity in the last part of the third quarter and we didn't expect to be.
Some of those shipments -- I'd say most of those deferred orders will be captured in Q4.
Not all of them though to be clear because when you don't deliver to customers' expectations they'll go somewhere else to fill their -- some of them will go somewhere else to fill their demand.
But we do think we get the majority -- most of those orders back in Q4.
So it'll reverse out as the distribution center in the Southeast comes -- ramps to speed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it at speed now Mike? Or is there still a little bit of fixing? No.
We're coming through October I think we'll be to speed in November.
This thing this is -- obviously execution is everything.
And this is an example of us not executing.
This cost us 50 basis points of growth core sales growth in the third quarter so it's really a bummer.
The good news is it's a discrete event and we'll work through it and we'll learn through this experience.
But it did get in the way of us doing exactly what we had hoped to do in Q3.
But we'll come through it in Q4.
We'll get back on track.
And as we move forward into more supply chain transformation work we'll make sure we don't lose the lessons learned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then on the Home Solutions business a little bit of a longer-term question.
With the exits or product lines or rationalization that's underway the Endicia planned divestiture the Calphalon retail shutting down and then the acquisitions where do you feel like you are in terms of reshaping that portfolio to what you want it to look like? Are all the steps in play already? Or there's still more that needs to happen? I think there's more opportunity in front of us less on the disposal side but more on the acquisition side.
We've said we're going to deliver the Growth Game Plan ambition organically and we're well on our way to doing that.
But we also are a very cash-generative business.
And we'll put our cash to work probably in 2 ways with the board's support: buying back what we consider to be an undervalued asset that's us; and also looking to scale the 5 core segments that we have.
And our model for doing that is a blend of organic delivery through the Growth Game Plan activities and then complemented by M&amp;A.
We think bubba and Ignite are right in the wheelhouse.
And there are some other opportunities out there that if the conditions were right we would pursue.
Your next question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Stephanie on for Bill.
I just had a quick question on the inventory rebalance for Baby.
Is there any chance you can kind of quantify the impact of that? And then if you expect to get any of that back in the fourth quarter as well? Yes.
So Stephanie it's a good question.
John in his section talked about our North American Baby business being flat.
And he was referring to net sales.
And I talked about our POS being up about 5% in the U.S.
So I think that's as specific as I'd like to get.
In the reality those numbers ought to match to each other.
So sell-in and sell-out ought to be lined up if you've got a consumption-based selling model.
And that's where we hope we get to as those 2 things converge by the first quarter of 2015.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just a quick -- is there any update on the growth to net optimization program that you announced at your Analyst Day? Yes.
We're making progress to a 1-1 implementation of a new model of going to market in the U.S.
which significantly simplifies how we deploy our trade promotion our customer programming funds and perhaps more importantly how our customers earn those funds.
So it becomes more of a performance-based model versus a more traditional model that you might have seen over the past number of years of fixed fund deployment to opportunities.
So customers will earn money based on their purchases from us and then they will qualify for that money through performance which typically would be merchandising or new item distribution or things of that sort shelving initiatives.
And so we're very excited by it.
It empowers our sales force to sell more.
If they sell more customers earn more.
And it creates a very dynamic way of going to market.
It's not new to our industry.
It's new more to the consumer durable space than it is to fast-moving consumer goods.
But what it will do is ensure that our money flows to our growth customers rather than the fixed fund approach which tends to oversubsidize declining customers and underfund growing customers.
So it's a much more progressive model and we're very excited to deploy it and leverage it.
Your next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just want to talk a little bit about the incremental savings.
You guys have had big increases in brand support over the past couple of years.
So can you talk about how that's going to flow through from a timing standpoint and kind of where you feel you are in your brand investment? Do you feel like the marginal return is still where it needs to be? So how much of that investment will flow -- how much of the savings will flow down to the bottom line versus sort of going back into the business? Well John we haven't gotten that specific in our external communication.
We obviously have plans that are laid out by quarter for the third phase of Project Renewal.
Let me just start with the strategic side of your question which is how much in brand investment do you want to put into this business.
We're pretty happy with the SG&amp;A ratios in this business.
If we were between 25% and 26% even if we held ourselves to 25% we've got the right amount of investment firepower in the P&amp;L today.
It's just not shaped properly.
Too much of it has been tied up in fixed overheads and not enough of it has been behind our brands.
And so the last 3.5 years has been about variabilizing that spend and trying to get our A&amp;P investment up and making the right choices with respect to selling investments versus maybe our business partnering functions within the balance of the overhead lines.
We have more work to do to get the A&amp;P ratios to where we want them to be.
There's no one number system because obviously A&amp;P will be highest on our Writing businesses and it'll be lowest probably on our Commercial Products businesses where selling expense will tend to be higher.
So it's not one set of levers that we're pulling.
That said on balance for the company as a whole long term -- and I won't give you a time-bound metric here -- but long term we want to be in that 6% to 7% A&amp;P ratio range.
And in order to do that within the constraint of SG&amp;A being roughly right between 25 -- around 25 maybe a little bit higher we've got to get the overheads in line.
And that's what we're on and about doing.
Or we have to get the gross margin up which of course that's what we're on and about trying to do.
Now in terms of the phasing of Project Renewal the third phase of Project Renewal we obviously have a bunch of savings still to come in on Renewal 1 and 2 in the first half of the year.
We've said we'll be between the range of $270 million and $325 million of cumulative annualized savings for Renewal 1 and 2.
And we're well on our way to delivering that and we may even have some upside to that.
The phasing in of Renewal 3 savings will accelerate through next year.
So our back half will be the largest beneficiary of that work.
Front half we'll be gearing up.
So I wouldn't expect that the new savings layer in on top of the Renewal 1 and 2 savings still to come in the first half.
I think about those savings -- the majority of those savings phasing pretty evenly through Q3 Q4 and then into -- and then accelerating into 2016 and '17.
The work is phased.
We've got probably I would guess maybe 15 project work streams that in total will ladder up to Project Renewal.
And the work is phased with the easiest-to-grab savings first.
And then some of the more interesting savings that really create strategic value for us which are connected to the complexity of our product portfolio will be phased later.
So we've got to go through that simplification process up front in the architecture of our brands in order to enable the release of the more complicated savings through our manufacturing footprint.
And you should expect that to phase a little bit later because that's a complicated exercise that cuts across brand marketing through selling and then into the supply chain.
So I know that's not the specifics you're looking for John but thematically that's how I would think about it.
Your next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First quick one on cash flow in the quarter.
Obviously it was down year-over-year.
Is there anything sinister there? Or this a timing issue? No.
It's just timing.
And John you want -- any comments on cash flow? No.
It's good.
We're still -- we're on track to deliver what we committed to Bill this year.
And again it's just timing.
If you look year-to-date I think we're up significantly so we're in good shape.
Yes.
Last year if you recall we were -- we didn't have positive operating cash flow through the middle of the year.
This year we did.
So it's really just a timing and phasing thing.
Our payables are shorter.
It's actually a healthier cash flow delivery this year than it was last year to be honest with you so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Pricing has obviously become a pretty critical component of the organic sales growth algorithm.
And I'm wondering is this commodity pass-through pricing.
Or is it real pricing? Because the U.S.
commodities start to sort of stabilize and then maybe decline if some of the spot rates hold.
Like do you think pricing still is an important variable or do you think it can stick in that kind of environment? Look I mean a lot of our pricing actually is coming outside the U.S.
connected to transaction ForEx.
And in general all of our competitors face the same dynamics except for those folks that are producing locally.
So we expect to have to price to cover a lot of that next year as well so that should sustain.
There'll be some caps on what we'll be able to do in Venezuela versus what we've done historically given the new gross -- new margin cap law.
But we still expect a material amount of pricing to flow through.
In the U.S.
we still expect inflation next year.
Despite energy costs coming out or coming down we have -- we get hit by 2 things.
First of all there's a decoupling of the resin markets from the core commodity that's related to supply refinery supply and capacity.
And that will be an issue for resin for the next couple of years.
It really doesn't ease until late '16 probably '17.
So that's not going to be -- people like to conclude that oil down resin down.
That's -- or natural gas resin down.
It's not that linear.
So we're going to still have inflation.
We'll have inflation in our low-cost country labor -- sourced goods through labor rate -- continued labor rate inflation.
So we're going to have to price to cover that or work to get the cost out through accelerated productivity.
And we're going to have to do a bit of both.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last one.
Just on the SKU productivity what's the sort of timetable for us to start seeing some benefits from that from the SAP implementation? And then maybe it's just me but it seems like out-of-stocks are becoming an increasingly bigger problem.
So is that something you guys are focusing on? And I know that's sort of part and parcel with the SKU productivity because obviously the faster-turning SKUs are the ones that are out of stock and the stuff that doesn't turn are the ones that you're putting pretty quickly on shelf? Yes.
I mean there's 2 ways to manage out-of-stocks.
One is to get your shelving right.
And you could -- if you're faced out properly on your highest velocity SKUs you end up being able to manage that dynamic.
I think for us in the here and now some of the concerns on out of stocks are related to things retailers are doing in the moment.
I don't get fazed by that.
I think that's sort of the normal dynamics that go on as people rebalance their positions et cetera.
So that's not a strategic thing that we should worry about.
Your point on complexity driving -- increasing the risk of out-of-stocks and also all kinds of other costs through our business model is right in the middle of what Project Renewal Phase 3 is going to be about.
I've told you guys 21% of our SKUs in Writing in North America account for 90% of our revenue.
Well that's pretty absurd.
And there's all kinds of costs tied up in that and all kinds of issues tied up in that commercially as you point out.
And so this is the type of thing which is complicated to address but this is the type of thing that we will address in Renewal 3.
And you should expect as we come through '15 into the second half for us to be able to expose some of the very specific things we're doing around our Writing business in particular as we set the stage to simplify that portfolio and get both the manufacturing efficiencies that come through that and the working capital benefits that come through that.
We should expose you to that.
We're not ready to do that today.
That's at the heart of what Renewal 3 will be about.
Your next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
I'd like your perspective on the Baby business.
When you took over as CEO the Baby business was so pressured that it got its very own segment.
And now it recovered.
It recovered very nicely and once again we see that the margins got crushed.
So I'm wondering if you think it has the right characteristics to remain as part of Newell's portfolio and how you -- and if it does how you manage this business given all its volatility.
Yes.
It's a great question Connie.
So when I started this job I was pretty skeptical about Baby.
That's why I brought it direct to me.
I didn't like the dynamics that were happening between us and our partner.
I was really concerned about the gross margin.
I was worried that the brand wasn't strong enough to be able to hold up or premiumize.
I had a lot of concerns coming into it.
And that's why I asked Kristie to report directly to me.
And that's why Mark and myself really got into the guts of that business to understand it.
And a year later we moved Laurel Hurd to be the Head of Marketing in the context of the new operating model.
And it was the Laurel and Kristie show in Baby.
I want to be really clear I love the Baby business and I'm really positive about what we can go do with this business.
The step back in margins is completely related to the first slug of A&amp;P that we put in the business in Q3 which was a sizable one.
We hadn't advertised Graco in a long long time when we advertised the 4Ever Car Seat launch.
And then there's some mix effects of our Japanese business being under pressure.
But I think -- one of the reasons I love this business is because we have an incredibly strong brand.
And we've got our relationship with our sourcing partner really focused.
They're great collaborators.
And so we have a very strong position that we can leverage.
We don't love the margins in general but you have to remember we don't have the fixed asset base we don't have the inventory.
This is a DI business so -- the majority of it is so our working capital ratios are very very favorable.
So if you look at the return on net assets on this business relative to the rest of our portfolio it is almost as strong as our Writing business despite having a very very different margin structure.
So if we can grow it we can create a ton of value for shareholders.
And given the brand strength given our building track record on innovation I'm prepared to invest in Baby and take the hit on operating margins for the sake of investing behind the brand because I do not think our competitors will do that.
And there maybe 1 year or an 18 month contraction in operating income margins that we need to absorb for the sake of catalyzing growth.
And so I've changed my tune on Baby from the time when I started where I was really concerned to me being way more bullish about this business particularly in North America and eventually in Asia.
So Connie I don't know if that answers your question but that's where I stand on it.
It does.
Your next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess -- I know you don't want to give quarterly guidance but with only 1 quarter left that's what it is.
So Mike it looks like to the do low end of 3% to 4% for full year '14 you need a 4% in Q4.
So I guess with Writing as you're saying low singles and I think commercial facing a much much tougher comp can you just talk about I guess what the run rate x the unusual stuff in Home Solutions? Just like how do you think you're going to get there? Yes.
Chris so on our math right now Q3 year-to-date we're at 2.9% core.
So to get to the low end of the range -- the bottom of the low end of the range would be I think 3.2% 3.3% is what we would need in Q4.
And who knows a tenth of a core sale point or 10 basis points of core sales is $1.5 million of revenue.
We do about $20 million a day.
And so 1/10 of a basis point is $1.5 million of revenue.
So I don't know whether we'll be 3.2% or 3.3% or 3.4% or 3.5% but I think it's within grasp.
And do I know exactly where we'll end up on year-end? No I don't.
But it's that -- that's sort of the fine-tuning required to kind of get into the range.
So we're going to do our best to be in that range.
I know the sales teams are focused on it like a laser beam.
I also want to set Q1 up for great success because I want to get out of this year where we had to absorb all these challenges from the recall and from the weather in Q1 that sort of derailed our momentum.
So it would be great to kind of put a punctuation point on this year and move on to the next.
But obviously we feel a sense of urgency to be where we said we were going to be.
That's why we've guided the way we have.
We're tracking to the low end of the core sales range and the high end of the EPS range despite all of the challenges.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And could you just -- I guess on advertising real quick.
150 basis points of total A&amp;P is pretty big and it's so far -- I mean and maybe this is a function of your business but it's been pretty lumpy right episodic in each business based on obviously different initiatives.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Will it always be like that? Or do you think you'll get to a point where there's just a higher underlying run rate on spend in these businesses? You know what? I think for at least the next few years it'll be like that Chris.
I mean we'll try to help you understand why we're doing what we're doing but money flows to ideas.
The money that we're putting into advertising isn't thematic advertising in general.
It's behind innovation.
And I think that's where -- that is a premise that you'll see us continue to embrace.
So it will flow to the ideas we're bringing to market.
Now as you think through our portfolio those ideas are obviously Writing.
First priority because it's a beautiful business high margin great brands lots of innovation coming.
Baby will be a priority even though the operating income margin will contract when we do that because we have a pipeline of big innovations coming and we want to establish ourselves as the leader and also take steps to -- while protecting our flank premiumize the Graco brand because it can carry more premium and more functional benefits to mom.
And so that requires support that requires messaging that requires convincing people to try.
And you'll see that on Baby.
You'll see that on Calphalon.
You'll see that on Food Storage and our beverage businesses within Home Solutions.
You'll see that across our Writing portfolio.
You'll see that on the Irwin business within Tools.
And we're going to learn on Commercial Products what the right levers to pull are.
We're doing a bunch of print right now on the new BRUTE can that we've got.
And we're doing print on the new Maximizer Mop that reduces the amount of cotton in a mop head while improving performance.
Reduces the cotton content by 30% so it's much easier for the janitor to use.
We're trying print out there but do we -- we're not sure whether that will work.
And if it doesn't work we'll put the money off and put it into other investments.
We're managing the company as an operating company and so -- not a holding company.
So we're not yet in the position where I want to let go of how we deploy what is still pretty scarce A&amp;P resources even though we've increased it substantially.
Your next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about sort of the next year and the key areas that have to perform to get you closer to making the high end of the sales outlook range as opposed to the low end? And in the context of the macro backdrop it's certainly gotten a lot more interesting even since the last time we met at Analyst Day.
So maybe you can talk a little bit about the macro assumptions that you have embedded into your outlook.
Well we think the U.S.
is gradually improving as we've talked.
It's interesting that we see this divergence between the macros and our underlying performance in Europe which is interesting.
The macros have worsened in Europe yet our -- particularly in the core countries like Germany and U.K.
to a degree France.
But our business is actually strengthening as John mentioned in his remarks.
So that's a divergence.
The key will be the investment profile -- if we want to sustain that momentum the investment profile we put behind those businesses.
In the emerging markets where -- I certainly read all the earnings call transcripts and see what other people are saying about the emerging markets.
And the GDP dynamics in the emerging markets really don't connect at all to our own performance in those markets because we're in the early days of deploying our portfolio we're investing significant money and we're getting nice growth yields out of the investments we're making.
So I don't think that GDP dynamics are -- have a material impact on our developing or emerging market businesses.
In the developed world obviously if we faced a U.S.
slowdown that would be a challenge.
But we don't envision that in the near term.
We also don't envision some wondrous growth rates and tailwinds turning behind the business.
Some of the things that are going on from a currency standpoint so Bank of Japan last night again it seems to be a race to the bottom on currencies for Japan and for Europe which creates a dynamic for us on ForEx.
We've proven we can manage through that stuff this year and we'll do our best to do that so that we can sustain the commitment to increase A&amp;P investment in our business next year.
But it sounds like it's going to be one of those dynamics years next year where we have to manage the movements of currencies and the impact on gross margin.
And we may have to embrace more pricing in some of these markets where we end up with a transaction ForEx effect beyond what we've assumed.
And Olivia to answer the other part of your question.
I think for next year for us to succeed we have to continue to create momentum we have on Writing right now that we've established.
And with the incremental A&amp;P we're putting behind the brands we should see that.
Baby should be getting back -- in North America back up to the growth that it had before as -- recall we were hampered quite a bit in Q1 and Q2 as a result of the recall so we should be able to get that business back to growth.
And then probably the third thing is we have to execute.
As Mike mentioned our DC consolidation in Tools was a bit of a step-back for us unfortunately.
And we have a lot of plans for next year so we're going to be flawless in our execution.
Those are probably the 3 big things to make sure that we deliver on our commitments to you next year.
Yes.
And remember the other thing that we won't have is a down elevator next year Olivia.
We don't have the -- we'll have a little bit of flow-through of the European exits into Q1 but then that will be behind us.
We've taken a real -- some real lumps this year in core sales related to our repositioning of the Rubbermaid Consumer business.
Well that will continue next year.
The degree to which it impacts our overall results will sequentially lessen through the year.
And we're very optimistic about Commercial Products and Tools.
We've got great plans in place for those businesses.
So where do we end up in the core sales range? I don't know.
I do know that we will see the benefit in the back half of the year as a result of Ignite and bubba coming into our core sales metrics.
We've chosen to be really pure in how we manage that so even though bubba is small we're not counting it in core sales until -- the growth in core sales until we lap a year of ownership.
And that's the right way to look at things.
So you should expect our Q4 numbers to maybe push the high end or even break out above the high end.
And as we move through '15 into '16 you should see our progression out of the strategic phase of the Growth Game Plan into the acceleration phase where we've said that consistently we will deliver greater than 4% core sales growth.
And we're right on track to do that in my judgment.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And if I could just follow-up on SG&amp;A.
I understand that obviously 150 basis points of that was advertising.
But even excluding advertisers -- advertising I was surprised to hear that SG&amp;A would have been up.
So was that incremental overhead? And if so what's driving that and how do you think about spending going forward? Yes.
It's the absence of a couple of unique things from the prior year that create that dynamic in the quarter.
So it's not -- believe me there's no new overhead.
So we're really tightly managing that.
Your next question comes from Jason Gere with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess just 2 follow-up questions.
One just in light of Project Renewal 3 and I think you're seeing the phasing of the savings somewhere maybe in the back half of '15.
And also your last comment about trying to accelerate core sales above 4%.
Does this allow you any flexibility in terms of accelerating the expansion into Asia? I know that's something that you're really focused more in Latin America right now and I know Asia you talked at the Analyst Day.
But I was just wondering if this gives you a little bit more flexibly to kind of start that process a little bit earlier.
And I have a follow-up question on something else.
Sure.
You know what Jason? We're going to be very disciplined about how we take our Writing business into China and parts of Southeast Asia.
So we're going to do the work the right way.
If we can accelerate we will.
But I'm not -- we're not going to be opportunistic about that because we have to get that right.
We want it to be a sustainable growth thread for us for many years to come.
And so we think that's our early '16 initiative.
All the funding of the research all the planning will happen this year and we'll see how that plays out.
I don't think we're going to need any of that nor would I use that lever as a way to strengthen core next year.
I don't think we're going to need it and we won't be ready for it.
So I think that's going to stay a 2016 initiative and I think we're comfortable with that being the right timing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I think going back to an earlier question on I guess the step-up in A&amp;P.
I was just wondering if you could talk maybe about the ROI that you're getting I mean maybe use Writing as an example during Back-to-School and kind of the replenishment there.
Can you talk about the learnings that you see? Where you're happy with the spending that you're doing? Where you think that it can be strengthened? Or just maybe a little bit of context especially as A&amp;P is going to go up again another $50 million next year.
Just wondering the evolution of the process.
Yes.
So we're learning and adapting as we go.
So I think Mark showed a couple of charts at the Analyst Day that really showed a strong correlation between trial and investment on new items.
I think he showed a Baby chart that showed you the lock-step relationship between advertising spending and the kind of POS growth we're getting.
Where we're spending our money we see good POS momentum.
Not everything has worked.
That's for sure.
So we learned from Tools last year on some thematic advertising that we did on the Irwin brand and we've not repeated that this year.
We'll learn on Commercial Products.
I've got questions as to whether that's going to drive sell-through or whether it doesn't as strongly as we hope.
I hope it does.
I like the fact that it's focused on our new items in Commercial Products.
But that may or may not yield the best growth return for the investments.
We'll learn from that.
But in general when I look at the performance of our business I see good point-of-sale growth rates on the things that we're spending the money on.
And we see market share up across every one of our measurable categories.
So whether it's Food Storage or whether it's the Writing businesses in aggregate or whether it's -- even the Goody business which we don't talk a lot about we see good POS momentum and share growth where we're spending some print advertising.
And so we're quite pleased with the yields the growth yields we're getting on the investments in general but we're not going to waste a penny.
So our mindset is it's our money and we don't want to mess around with it if it doesn't drive strengthening of our brand or sell-through.
Your final question comes from Steph Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just talk a little bit about the out-the-door pricing at retail what you're hearing in terms of feedback from your retailers in terms of willingness to lean into higher pricing to help offset some of that cost inflation.
And then secondly just related to your A&amp;P.
I'm curious around taking some of those content assets that you've had some success with and really globalizing them.
How are you thinking about some of the development behind some of the creative that you've done and how applicable is that around the world? So pricing is tough in static markets.
And I think in the U.S.
it's probably the toughest market.
U.S.
and Europe it's the toughest market to land pricing without commodity inflation.
So we're getting -- where we've had inflation we've been able to price but it's a tough conversation.
And at times it causes us to lose some of the support you would normally get from a retailer if they don't see that being in their -- pricing in their interest.
We have to be disciplined about this stuff.
We can't -- as commodities move on us we're going to have to capture price we're going to have to get the gross margin progression we're looking for through productivity.
And we are being disciplined about that even though at times it can be very painful.
Outside of the U.S.
we've gotten pretty good pricing traction because in our categories at least there's -- the core competitors are either U.S.- or European-based companies and they all face the same transaction ForEx dynamic that we do.
So pricing is never easy.
But with the right lead time with the right conversations you can get it done even in a tough market like North America or Europe.
The transfer of insights and then marketing to new markets we're doing it today on Writing.
The work we've done on InkJoy is traveling.
We're in 5 6 7 8 countries now with the same advertising idea.
The innovation platforms are traveling.
We have to be sensitive about landing both in a locally relevant way so I don't think that we can be simple-minded about this.
You have to make sure you get the kind of traction you need with local consumers with these ideas.
And so we don't want to blindly deploy.
But there's lots of opportunity to take the core of an idea and move it along.
And particularly within our Writing business which is the most -- Writing and Tools which are the most global of our businesses we've had some success moving ideas across geography.
So with that I think that's the last question that's on the table.
We appreciate your support sticking with us through the Q&amp;A and through our commentary.
We're pleased with our progress.
We're delivering solid results in the context of a continued strong change program and we're quite confident in the road ahead in our ability to deliver the guidance we've articulated for both 2014 and 2015.
Thanks so much.
Today's call will be available on the web at newellrubbermaid.com and on digital replay at (888) 203-1112 domestically and (719) 457-0820 internationally with the access code of 8028301 starting at 12 p.m.
Eastern time today.
This concludes our conference you may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaids Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
After a brief discussion by management we will open up the call for questions.
As a reminder todays conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the investor relations home page under events and presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy ODonnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
ODonnell you may begin.
Thank you good morning and welcome to Newell Rubbermaids quarter end conference call.
I would like to remind you before we began thats today discussion will include forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to accurate and actual results may differ materially from current expectations.
An explanation of related risks and uncertainties is provided in our earnings release and in our most recent 10-Q report.
As required by Regulation G Newell I would like to remind you that our call will also include references to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors with helpful information on the underlying growth trends of our business.
We provide a fully reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures in our release and in the investor relations section of our website at newellrubbermaid.com.
I am joined this morning by Mike Polk our President and CEO; and John Stipancich our Interim CFO.
And at this point I will turn the call over to Mike.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Over the last four months we have announced a series of strategic initiatives.
First on the heels of our acquisitions of the Contigo and bubba brands we completed a third acquisition of one of the leading marketers of premium baby strollers Baby Jogger.
Baby Jogger and its City Mini and City Select platforms are the perfect premium complement to our industry leading Graco brand and offer tremendous opportunity for Newell to participate in this fast growing segment of the market.
These three acquisitions are growth accretive operating margin accretive and EPS accretive.
We also announced our Boards decision to undertake the next phase of Project Renewal to hold for sale our Calphalon kitchen electrics and outlet stores and our Endicia online postage businesses and to increase and extend our open market share repurchase authorization through 2017.
These strategic choices are designed to strengthen our portfolio accelerate our sales growth and improve our operating margins while ensuring our shareholders have been simultaneously rewarded with a return of capital through share repurchase and steady dividend increases.
So lets get into the results.
In our discussion the growth associated with our three acquisitions will be excluded from core sales until their respective first anniversaries with Newell.
In the fourth quarter our company again delivered a very solid set of results.
Core sales grew 3.3% or approximately 4% adjusting for SAP implementation timing and tools orders that were shifted into the fourth quarter as a result of our slow third quarter distribution centric transition.
Net sales grew 4.1% despite a 320 basis point adverse impact from currency.
Normalized gross margin increased 70 basis points driven by positive mix pricing and productivity partially offset by inflation.
This improvement funded a 60 basis point increase in advertising and promotion as a percentage of sales.
Despite the significant increase in brand support normalized operating margin improved a 120 basis points as a result of the accretive nature of our acquisitions and our continued progress on overheads related to Project Renewal.
Normalized EPS was $0.49 $0.01 ahead of consensus and 6.5% ahead of prior year.
In delivering this normalized EPS outcome we overcame a $0.04 adverse income tax impact due to the absence of prior year discrete benefits in our tax rate and the dilutive effect of businesses classified as discontinued operations.
Operating cash flow was solid at $291 million and we have returned a $147 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Our fourth quarter performance was geographically broad based with core sales growth in all four regions and standout results in the US UK Australia New Zealand Mexico Brazil and China.
We continue to deliver very strong growth on our Win Bigger businesses.
Combined our three Win Bigger businesses grew core sales 6.4%.
Our Writing business grew core sales 5.7% driven by increased market share in most geographies as a result of strong innovation and increased marketing investment.
Adjusted for the orders we pulled into the third quarter ahead of our SAP implementation Writing core sales grew 9.3%.
Commercial products core sales increased 6.7% as a result of new innovation and strong sales execution in the U.S.
Brazil and China.
Tools grew 7.5% driven by continued progress on Irwin inEurope Latin America and Asia Pacific and very good growth on Lenox in North America.
Adjusted for the distribution center transition related shift in sales from Q3 to Q4 Tools core sales grew just above 5%.
Positive momentum in Writing Commercial Products and Tools has helped us absorb the impacts of our strategic choices to reposition the Rubbermaid consumer business for profitable growth and to exit certain countries and product lines in Europe primarily on baby and fine writing.
Despite European exits the global baby business grew core sales of 0.7% in the fourth quarter with growth outside of EMEA of over 3%.
As planned Home Solutions core sales declined 1.8%.
However our newly acquired brands delivered terrific results and enabled home solutions net sales growth of 10.8%.
For the full year core sales increased 3% despite over 40 basis points of product line and country exits in EMEA.
Normalized gross margins increased 90 basis points enabling a 70 basis increase in advertising and promotion investment.
Even with this increased investment normalized operating margins expanded to 40 basis points to 13.8%.
Normalized EPS increased $0.18 to $2 despite having to overcome $0.17 adverse impacts from foreign currency.
Operating cash flow increased to $634 million giving us the flexibility to pass $546 million back to our shareholders in share repurchases and dividends.
And most importantly our Win Bigger businesses grew core sales 7.3% with Writing up 7.8% Tools up 6.3% and Commercial Products up 7.2%.
We are pleased with this 2014 performance and proud of the progress.
With that let me hand over the call over to John to go through a more detailed review of Q4 and then I will return to provide some perspective on 2015 guidance.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
Fourth quarter reported net sales were $1.53 billion a 4.1% increase versus last year.
The Contigo bubba and Baby Jogger acquisitions contributed 400 basis points to reported net sales.
Core sales which exclude the contribution from acquisitions and the 320 basis point negative impact of foreign currency increased 3.3%.
Strong volume growth in Tools Commercial Products and Writing drove our core growth partially offset by a decline in home solutions as we continued to reposition that segment for profitable growth.
Reported gross margin was 37.6%.
Normalized gross margin was 37.7% up 70 basis points over last year.
This improvement was driven by productivity favorable mix in pricing which more than offset input cost inflation and unfavorable currency.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $371 million or 24.3% of sales down 40 basis points versus prior year.
We reduced overheads by 100 basis points but also increased our investment in advertising and promotion by 60 basis points as a percentage of sales.
We invested in major campaigns for Rubbermaids Commercials Brute and Hygen Microfiber in North Africa and support behind distribution gains in China and Brazil.
Our Tool segment also benefited from incremental advertising for Irwin Impact accessories and Vise-Grip.
And we also supported our successful Graco full rubber car seat and Mode Stroller campaigns as well as advertising for Levolor custom blind and shades.
Normalized operating margin was 13.4% up 120 basis points reflecting the benefits of Project Renewal and other cost saving initiatives partially offset by a significant increase in strategic investment.
Reported operating margin was 7.4% down from 10.7% in the prior year due to non-cash charges relating to our previously disclosed voluntary lump sum offer for certain inactive U.S.
pension plan participants.
Excluding the pension charge operating margin was 11.7% of sales for a 100 basis points year-over-year improvement.
Interest expense was $16.7 million increased 1.7 million year-over-year.
During the fourth quarter we issued $860 million in medium term notes the proceeds of which we used to provide permanent financing for acquisitions refinanced debt and extend our maturity profile.
Our normalized cash rate was 26.5% compared with 19.1% a year ago due to the absence of prior year discrete benefits.
Our full year normalized 2014 tax rate landed at 23.5%.
Normalized EPS which excludes restructuring and restructuring related costs and certain another one-time cost was $0.49 a 6.5% increase to last year.
On a reported basis fourth quarter EPS was $0.19 compared with $0.41 last year.
I will now move on our segments results starting with Writing reported Q4 net sales of $418.2 million were essentially flat to last year though core sales increased 5.7%.
Our North American writing business delivered good volume growth fueled by strong innovation marketing and merchandising.
In Latin America Writing core sales declined low single-digits due to the SAP related pull forward of about $15 million of core sales from Q4 into Q3.
Adjusted for the SAP shift writing core sales of Latin America increased double digit driven by pricing and the continued success of InkJoy.
Q4 normalized operating margin in our Writing segment was 24.7% a 260 basis point increase over prior year due to strong productivity cost management and lower A&amp;P spend as compared to last years heavy InkJoy advertising campaign.
Net sales in our home solutions segment increased 10.8% to $458.6 million with acquisitions contributing $55.5 million.
Core sales decreased 1.8% driven primarily by the exit of some low margin Rubbermaid consumer business and our decision to pull back from less profitable non-strategic promotional activity.
Partially offsetting the decline was good growth in Rubbermaid food storage and into core driven by increased advertising and promotion.
Home Solutions normalized operating margin was 13.2% a 70 basis point decrease reflecting increased advertising input cost inflation and negative FX partially offset by better mix and pricing.
Our Tools segment delivered net sales of $227.3 million a 3% increase.
Core sales grew 7.5%.
Tools delivered double digit growth in Latin America reflecting the continuing success of our expanded offerings in Brazil.
North America and Asia Pacific grew high single-digits fueled largely by our Lenox band saw and tools business.
And as anticipated Irwin North America return to growth as it rebounded nicely from the Q3 disruption related to our distribution center transition.
Approximately $5.6 million of Q4 shipments represented the backlog from our Q3 transition issues.
Adjusted for this timing shift Q4 core sales growth was 4.9%.
Normalized operating margin in the Tools segment was 9.5% a 90 basis point improvement versus last year.
This increase was driven by a significant reduction in overhead costs partially offset by increased advertising and promotion.
Reported net sales in our Commercial Products segment increased 5% to $213 million.
Core sales increased 6.7% driven by pricing and strong volume growth in North America as well as expanded distribution in emerging markets such as Brazil and China.
Commercial Products normalized operating margin was 11.4% a 380 basis point increase to last year thanks to pricing productivity and favorable channel mix partially offset by higher A&amp;P.
Our Baby segment reported $208.9 million in net sales a 20 basis point decrease.
Baby Jogger contributed $4.4 million in net sales for the two week period after the close date.
Core sales grew 0.7% Graco North America grew low single-digits as strong innovation and increased advertising and promotion delivered sequential improvement at point of sale.
Our Baby business in Asia Pacific returned to growth in Q4 as a result of gains in China.
Aprica Japan saw modest recovery in POS driven by new product introductions and promotional activity.
Babys Q4 normalized operating margin was 8.3% down 110 basis points to last year largely due to increased A&amp;P spend to reignite growth in the segment.
Looking at Q4 core sales by geography; North America core sales grew 2.7% with strong results from Tools Commercial Products and Writing.
In EMEA we are very pleased with the progress we have made in repositioning the region for profitable growth.
Core sales in Q4 grew 3.2% driven by strong performance from Writing partially offset by planned product line and country exits of about $7 million.
Our normalized operating margins in EMEA has also improved significantly to an all-time high as we are realizing the benefits of our extensive transformation initiatives in the region.
In Latin America core sales grew 3.5% reflecting pricing and volume gains in Tools and Writing partially offset by the $15 million negative impact of the SAP related timing shift from Q4 into Q3.
If we adjust for this timing shift Latin America core sales growth was 16.5%.
And finally Asia Pacific core sales grew 8.2% with solid growth from Writing Baby and Commercial Products.
Moving on to cash and our balance sheet operating cash flow was $290.8 million in Q4 compared with $304.2 million in the prior year.
For the full year 2014 operating cash flow came in at $634.1 million compared to $605.2 million last year.
We returned $147 million to shareholders in Q4 including $46.4 million in dividends and $100.6 million to repurchase 2.8 million shares.
For the full year 2014 we paid $182.5 million in dividends and $363.2 million to buy back 11.4 million of our shares.
In the fourth quarter we also announced an expansion of our share repurchase program to buy back up to $500 million in outstanding shares through the end of 2017.
As of the end of Q4 we have $437 million available under our authorized market repurchase plan.
For the full year 2015 we are now modeling an annualized average share count of about 272 million shares.
We expect interest expense to increase to around $70 million to $75 million and our tax rate should continue around 24%.
And finally our balance sheet remains very healthy.
We have about $200 million in cash on hand and about $770 million in liquidity.
Even with the increase in debt to finance our recent acquisitions our debt to equity EBITDA multiple and interest coverage ratios continue to be strong giving us continued financial flexibility for acquisitions or further share repurchases when we choose to pursue these options.
With that I will turn the call back over to Mike.
Thanks John.
So now lets turn to 2015 guidance.
This morning we revised our initial 2015 guidance to reflect the underlying positive momentum in our business the acquisition of Baby Jogger and our latest view of foreign exchange.
In that context we are raising our 2015 full year core sales growth guidance to 3.5% to 4.5%.
This new higher guidance reflects our increased confidence in the sustained momentum of our Win Bigger businesses the return to growth in Baby and the early signs of stabilization in our home solutions business.
Regarding normalized EPS guidance the unprecedented strengthening of the U.S.
dollar over the last few months against most currency has created pressure on our financials.
Our business is more susceptible than you might think to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar because of the dollar denominated profile of both our sub manufactured and sourced finished goods.
Unlike some other competitors the resulting negative transaction ForEx impact is actually larger than our translation impact when the U.S.
dollar strengthens.
The current view of the total year-over-year negative foreign exchange impact to operating income is about a $110 million and will result in a translation and transaction ForEx impact a normalized EPS of just over $0.30 about $0.16 worse than the impact presumed in the initial 2015 guidance we provided.
We have taken action to cover as much of the new currency impact as possible reflecting the most recent commodity cost benefits and lower energy cost to cost of goods and drove incremental pricing in markets where transaction ForEx pressure is most acute and competitive conditions allow.
We have also now incorporated the accretive impact of the Baby Jogger acquisition in our numbers which helps close some of the gap.
Additionally our strong Win Bigger performance in building POS growth across the balance of the portfolio has given us confidence to raise our core growth outlook which flows through to earnings.
We have considered but rejected the option to pull back on the 2015 incremental marketing investments.
Our conviction to step up brand support again in 2015 has been strengthened based on the 2014 growth acceleration we experienced in our Win Bigger businesses as a result of stronger innovation better marketing and additional investment.
Our new outlook assumes we increase advertising and promotional investment in 2015 by about 20%.
So in this context we are revising our 2015 full year guidance range for normalized EPS down by about 2% to $2.10 to $2.18.
The $2.14 midpoint of the range represents normalized EPS growth of 7% versus 2014.
Adjusting for the year-over-year impact of currency translation only the midpoint of the new 2015 guidance range represents nearly a 14% increase in normalized EPS versus 2014 on a currency neutral basis.
Our revised 2015 full year guidance assumes we sustain mid-single digit core growth in our Win Bigger businesses of writing tools and commercial products; that we recover growth momentum on our baby business with a real acceleration in the second half the year behind new innovation and brand support; that we stabilize core sales in home solutions as continued repositioning at the Rubbermaid consumer business in the first half of 2015 is offset by sustained momentum on Food storage and the inclusion of Contigo and bubba in core sales after their first anniversary with Newell; that we deliver strong year-over-year growth on our newly acquired brands of Contigo bubba and Baby Jogger; and that we partially offset the negative impact on normalized gross margin of transaction ForEx and mix associated with Baby and home solutions growth with positive pricing commodity benefits and productivity; and finally we deliver strong progress on overhead through Project Renewal which win coupled with growth enables us to increase brand support.
There are two factors that can influence where we fall in our 2015 full year guidance ranges.
The first factor is the planned recovery of growth on our baby business.
We were pleased with return to growth in baby in Q4 despite continued European exits.
In 2015 we expect to deliver good growth in North America behind strong innovations and marketing support.
And in Japan we expect to return to growth from the second quarter forward.
Weve invested significant marketing support behind Baby in the second half of 2014 and will sustained increased investment in innovation and advertising in 2015 accepting operating income margin compression in order to reignite growth.
The second factor that could influence where we land is foreign exchange.
Our team has done an excellent job dynamically managing our business in the context of sustained currency headwinds last year overcoming $0.17 per share of negative currency impact to deliver a new all-time record normalized EPS results.
While nearly two-thirds of our revenue and profit has generated in the U.S.
where macro conditions are improving we have a large and profitable businesses in Canada Japan and after years of work Europe.
These profit pools are exposed to the currency volatility we are currently experiencing.
Our teams have taken actions to cover over 80% to the negative currency exposure and will be working through the year to try and cover more through accelerated savings and increased pricing.
Our new guidance assumes the major currencies are at current market rates and the Venezuelan Bolivar is at the Sycat 1 [ph] rate of 12 bolivar per dollar.
While devaluation of the bolivar seems likely at some point in the future we had access to Sycat 1 [ph] option in the fourth quarter and we hold our current position in currency in Venezuela until market conditions or the currency frame work changes.
Obviously the environment remains dynamic and we will continue to adapt our plans to what will likely be continued changing conditions.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance let me make a few comments regarding the phasing of this years sales and earnings.
With regard to core sales we expect core sales to be near the low end of the range in the first half of 2015 and near the high end of the range in the second half of 2015.
The higher core growth rate quarter should be Q4 when Contigo and bubba growth will start to be recognized in our core sales.
The lowest core growth rate quarter should be Q2 related to the shift of some back-to-school shipments on writing from Q2 back to Q3.
Our core growth in Q2 could be below the bottom of our full year guidance range.
The phasing of normalized EPS growth should also skew towards the back of the year driven by two factors.
First nearly two-thirds of the adverse foreign currency impact is expected to occur in the first half of the year with the most significant impact in Q1.
Second we plan to increase advertising and promotion in 2015 with a majority of the incremental investment occurring in the first six months of the year.
In this context we expect the first half of 2015 normalized EPS growth rate to be lower than the growth rate in the second half of 2015.
And consistent with previous communications we are likely to deliver only flat year-over-year EPS growth in Q1 2015 as we invest in brand support ahead of year ago levels despite the adverse foreign currency pressure.
So let me close now.
I am proud of our teams delivering 2014 after a turbulent start to the year we grew core sales 3% despite over 40% basis points of product line exits and country exists in Europe.
We were steadfast in protecting about $50 million of incremental brand investment despite having to overcome $0.17 per share of adverse foreign currency impact.
We achieved that and increased normalized operating margins 40 basis points and normalized EPS nearly 10% to $2 per share an all-time high for Newell.
These are strong competitive results and we've delivered them while simultaneously driving change.
We're in the midst of the strategic phase of the growth game plan investing behind the core activity systems for critical door business success establishing an operating company that releases the full potential of our $6 billion business rather than simply our individual brands or operating units.
We're unlocking the trapped capacity for growth through Project Renewal and are now deploying cash back into the business investing in new capabilities in our brands for accelerated growth while simultaneously increasing operating margin.
We've strengthened our portfolio by exiting or divesting nearly $400 million of less attractive businesses and now acquiring nearly $300 million of growth of operating margin and EPS accretive businesses that are focused within the core of our portfolio.
We've also put cash to work repurchasing nearly $1 billion of our own shares over the last three and half years while increasing the annualized dividend from $0.20 in early 2011 to $0.68 per share today.
We are proud of the progress but more importantly we're excited by the future.
There is a much bigger value creation story still to be written and we're convinced that we're on track to both strengthen the company and create that upside.
With that let me pass the line back for Q&amp;A.
Hey Chris.
Hey good morning.
Mike can we talk about pricing a little bit right in the light of the pretty big FX transactions drag.
I'm just wondering how reliant is the new fiscal '15 guidance on getting pricing and how much did you get because it strikes me that pricing in LatAm is one thing but Canada maybe a little bit of a different issue right and do you believe your competitors cost structures are similar to yours? Yeah its a great question and this is something we ought to be very sensitive to.
It depends on where people are sourcing their business from.
We've got some local competitors that will make that pricing difficult that's true in Europe on some of the tools product lines.
Canada I think will it will be a tough discussion with customers.
We've already initiated that.
We'll get some pricing to land there.
Latin America will be easier to land pricing typically.
So it won't it's not a simple process to land pricing.
It's very important in the context of solving for the transaction issues.
In most cases we have a competitive framework that will allow us to get that pricing landed but your observation is right Chris.
It's a market-by-market product line-by-product line dynamic that we have to wrestle with.
And you really can't let your pricing your relative pricing versus competitions get out of line or youll pay a huge volume penalty.
So it's a really gritty kind of nuts and bolts type of conversations.
It's not a broad conversation.
You have to deal with it country-by-country product line-by-product line.
So we'll get pricing landed in most places across most product lines and where it makes sense not to do that we won't do it because our long-term agenda is about building our market share position.
And we've successfully kind of struck that balance in 2014 where we've faced similar issues but not quite to the degree we now do.
So plenty of the tough -- the tough markets will be Japan and Canada largely although in Japan our competitors are sourcing from China like us and so their effectively they are dollar denominated good -- finished goods.
But it's still tough market.
When there is flat GDP growth you're just -- its tough to convince customers to go.
But we've successfully done it.
The last -- it's actually over the last couple of years.
And we are going to do it again this year.
And so with the 14% growth rate in '15 that's implied on a just an ex-FX transactions basis alone and again or ex-translation -- transaction would be even worse.
Its now the second year running that you are facing these sort of headwinds.
So why not take the number lower why are you going to stress the organization to deliver 14% kind of constant currency.
And I appreciate you keeping are the advertising number but for a business where you have managed expectations on growth pretty well why are you willing to stretch to 14$ for the year? I think we have got what we believe is a balanced forecast now.
We have re-planned the year three times from October to now as currency -- as the dollar has strengthened.
I think we have got a balanced and appropriately stretched plan and a balanced and appropriately stretched commitment externally.
Remember we have got tremendous progress coming in on the cost side through Project Renewal and you see us getting leverage now on the overhead line through the P&amp;L on Q4 from that and also from the accretive nature of our acquisitions.
So the acquisitions clearly help.
We have been more aggressive on the repurchase line which works for the denominator and so I dont feel of course this is a stretch in plan but I dont think at all that this is an irresponsible plan and I think we want to keep that pressure operationally in the organization.
So we are not compromising on anything strategic by kind of pushing down this path.
We are fortunate to have made the choices we have made along the way on share repurchases on restructuring what we have done getting that overhead leverage getting the overhead ratios down and the acquisitions certainly helped.
But yeah now is not the time in our transformation to take the pressure out of the system.
In fact we want to continue to build the mass memory with respect to our operating excellence and discipline in the company.
And we cant let the external dynamics shift our focus away from the strategic agenda we have got.
So I feel like its in balance and we would have been able to spend more clearly had we not and perhaps driven growth even faster than what we have committed to have we not had these headwinds but they are what they are and you cant control the things you dont control.
And so you have to adapt to them and I feel like we have got we have struck the right balance.
Thanks a lot Mike.
Good morning.
Just wanted to shift gears a little bit to commodities I mean obviously you have seen oil come down and you guys are fully levered there just curious when you expect commodities to turn to a tailwind in 15? Well they are starting to you remember a good chunk of our -- we are getting some commodity benefits in resins now flowing through the P&amp;L.
We are also getting energy benefits in -- through our distribution transportation areas the cost of running factories.
There is some good positive stuff flowing through the P&amp;L which has helped us cover some of the FX issues we have got.
However remember a good chunk of our revenue is sourced finished goods.
So we still have inflation in the P&amp;L thats coming out as a result of labor rate increases in many countries around the world.
So its not all positive.
We will have net inflation in our business this year.
It will not be a positive year with respect to the overall inflation curve.
So I dont know whether that we will see as we move into 2016 whether we get more tailwinds on cost it really is going to depend on whether energy stays low and also whether the planned increases in resin capacity in the U.S.
come online at the end of 2015 as we expect they will.
That may depend on the economics for these companies based on the current energy input cost.
So that remains to be seen.
If that happens 2016 we should get some further benefit on resin than we are getting this year.
Got it thats helpful.
And then secondly in terms of the new optimization model you have got from [indiscernible] in the U.S.
whats been the response from customers and your own sales force to that? Look we went live on 1/1 so when you change a go-to-market program like this you have to be really cautious at the point you flip the switch.
You want to be able to invoice you want all those things its like an SAP implementation and I am really pleased to say that that went well.
The team did an excellent job of getting us through that transition.
And this is an empowering approach to go in the market for our selling organization.
So people are excited about it.
I think we will see some really interesting benefits overtime because its a much simpler approach from a back room perspective as we get more comfortable with the way we will fund the checkbooks and then withdraw money out of these checkbooks.
And so this will simplify the transaction.
So we've got behind the -- in the back office.
And so I think we just beginning to kind a feel the energy that will come from this into the organization will be positive from a -- and empowering from a sales force perspective and it should simplify transactions.
Our customers end up having skin in the game because of the way the program is designed and this is not a breakthrough program.
This is what happens in fast moving consumer goods.
Because of the way the program is designed the money will flow to the growing customers.
And so unlike fixed fund base approaches to trade promotion this is a live or pro-based program.
So as customers perform better for us they earn more money.
And that causes our gross to net money to flow to growing customers and also reach consumers effectively where they shop as opposed to where they have historically shop.
And so that should yield some really interesting benefits for us overtime.
Thats still to be proven because we just went live a few weeks back but so far I'm encouraged by the transition and the energy that our teams are playing back to me with respect to the empowerment that comes with this type of design.
Great thanks Mike.
Hey John.
Hey good morning.
So Mike I know you're obviously getting a lot of your core sales growth from Latin America and you probably completed an aggressive push there recently in terms of new product launches and what have you.
This quarter was negatively impacted by some of the timing shifts.
But I do get a question about sort of the overreliance on Latin America or Venezuela in particular as we look at the growth year-over-year in core sales.
So can you talk about sort of what we should think about for Latin America in 2015 Venezuela generally what's the contribution to growth going to look like for this year thanks.
Sure I mean Venezuela has been an important contributor to growth in Latin America in last two years.
The next year it actually will not contribute as much to our overall growth performance.
It's important to note that ex-Venezuela Latin America is up very strong double-digits.
So Venezuela is not driving our Latin numbers exclusively.
But next year you should recognize that the contribution to growth in Latin America from Venezuela will go down pretty materially like over 25% decline because of the dynamics of the new margin catalogs and how we can price.
So our growth will be less a function of pricing in Venezuela.
We've got really good volume momentum across the whole patch.
Because as you recall we're deploying more aggressively our writing portfolio across Latin America we're investing more in [indiscernible] Latin America we're getting great traction in the market share result.
I think Mark showed some of those things that at the Analyst Day some of the progress on the market share in those geographies.
So and in tools we've deployed a whole new portfolio into Brazil.
So we've had very good growth fundamental growth in Latin America.
And while pricing has certainly been a factor and will continue to be a factor next year as we deal with the valuations across the patch connected to the stronger dollar Venezuela's contribution to our overall performance will be probably 25% less next year.
And we still expect to deliver very solid double digit growth in '15 in Latin America.
Great thanks.
And then one sort of separate question.
Theres been from discussion lower gas prices to consumer are generally helping more discretionary items.
Can you talk a little bit about whether you're seeing any impact in the U.S.
from that? I'm hopeful I'm hopefully we've finally kind of turned -- this is sort of the last domino that gets us to kind of finally turn the corner.
I think you'll be able to read this more when you see some of the retailers report after these when you can net out the effect of the holiday.
It's -- from what I can see is some of those numbers were little blurred by holiday transition.
So look we have very POS momentum in our business in the U.S.
One the reasons we're confident in taking up our guidance on core sales is because we had very strong POS really across the patch across the whole portfolio in Q4.
We had some inventory shifting going on there that didn't have it all play through the revenue growth but we see good momentum.
I can't -- because of these categories and the quality of the syndicated data its very difficult to tease out the market growth effect but I know what -- and I know we are doing a lot of things and our shares are building but weve seen strengthening in our POS in the U.S.
over the last four months or so and thats encouraging either its foot traffic-related tied to lower energy cost I dont know.
I think that you are going to get a better -- we;; all get a better read when we start to watch what the retailers say.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
Hi Mike question on the exits.
You mentioned this year that you saw 40 basis points -- you had to absorb 40 basis points of hit from exits In terms of your portfolio how do you think about that for 2015 do you think that there might be more exits needed how often do you evaluate your portfolio? Ill let John handle that one Olivia.
Hi Good morning Olivia.
So with respect to the 40 basis points all in Europe we are pretty much done with those and those are behind us.
Now weve a little bit to tease out in the first quarter here.
With respect to Rubbermaid consumers we continue to reposition that business.
There will be some continuing exits of less profitable product lines for us so that we can focus on the more important like food storage and so forth for us that are more strategic.
So we continue to look at it.
But net-net I would say we will have some decline overall in terms of product exits in 15 but certainly not to the same scale that we had in 14.
And how often you guys evaluate the portfolio in terms of thinking about any potential new exits that you might be thinking for 15 that arent necessarily in the existing core sale outlook for 15? I think its probably fair to say that we are looking at it more and more all the time.
At the end of the day what we want to focus on is not growth but profitable growth and so again we are holding ourselves accountable to making more difficult decisions in terms of jettisoning things that just arent attractive to us on an overall basis.
So I would say its probably a more continuing process now than it ever has been before.
Got it and are you factoring in any potential -- is that -- how does that factor in to your 2015 outlook? Yeah we have taken that into account right now what we anticipate with our exits and so forth.
So I dont think it will -- nothing that we do will materially change its all baked into what weve guided to you today.
And Olivia just with respect to the broader portfolio question weve actioned the choices we think we need to action for the time being with respect to our portfolio with the choices to try and sale our additional [ph] business in the broader group that we have taken to discontinued operations.
So this years portfolio is one that we are going to sweat.
We will see whether there are any other things we are interested in from an M&amp;A perspective that we might hope on but weve got three great assets that we are adding to the portfolio and we are very busy integrating or broadening their growth agenda depending on the business you are referring to and -- of the three.
And so we are pretty pleased with the way weve actively managed the portfolio over the last 18 months.
This was an important part of the strategic phase of growth game plan was to confront some of these things and get them behind us before we get to the acceleration phase in 2016.
Got it and if I could just follow-up on the Win Bigger businesses those clearly you are still growing quite a bit faster than the remaining part of portfolio today but you did see some deceleration in growth in Q4 versus the full year rate.
So can you talk about are your expectation for growth in 2015 are they similar to 2014 or would you expect them to contribute even more relative to more to the rest of the portfolio? Olivia we didnt adjust the Win Bigger business numbers for the timing shifts for SAP.
We did when we talked to you about writing and we also did when we talked to you about tools in the shift between Q3/Q4.
If you want to get to the underlying Win Bigger numbers youd have to add probably about $10 million $11 million back to the top line in Q4 to get to a timing adjusted performance.
That would be the better underlying reference point.
So I dont think the -- while the numbers suggest what you say the actual underlying numbers are better than what we quoted.
But I am really reluctant to do the withs and withouts on these timing shift so I didnt adjust the Win Bigger number we quoted for Q4 but that would have been $11 million stronger as a result of Understood so in terms of the contribution to 2015 the growth rate in 2015 relative to 2014 for your Win Bigger businesses would you expect that to be fairly similar? Yeah we have mid-single digits across all three and hopefully we can beat that.
Well see how that plays out as the year unfolds.
Were going to -- we got to get -- as we layer the A&amp;P in the measure for whether we are getting a return on investment is the growth rate in the places that were laying that A&amp;P into and those two things go hand in hand.
So we need to get a good growth yield on those investments so they are not smart investments and well watch both of those variables.
Weve built a plan that assumes mid-single digit performance a recovery of momentum on Baby stabilization of Home Solutions and well see whether we can do better than that.
Great thanks guys.
Thanks hey good morning guys.
I guess first question if I think about the FX I mean the FX that you have to make up with the revised guidance of the $0.16 change two-thirds of that is price and cost savings.
So really weve talked a little bit about the price side.
So wondering if you could talk about the cost savings.
The bucket that you have kind of coming to this year is there any thats being kind of pulled forward from the out years is the first question? And then the second question is with I guess round three of Project Renewal thats out there as you see the next year or two or even three kind of play out do you see more of the cost savings kind of flowing to the bottom line as is now and rather than getting reinvested? So I was just wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit more conceptually about the cost savings whats coming through this year and then how thats going to contribute to kind of earnings growth in the out years? Sure so we are clearly looking at whether we can pull Renewal three savings into 2015.
Were going to want to have that as insurance policies whether we can pull that off or not.
The teams are fully immersed in that as we speak.
We have formed a transformation office that is diving on a number of different work streams to see whether there is paths to pull forward 16 savings into 15.
Its too early to know whether we will be able to do that but clearly thats something thats top of mind for John for myself for the whole executive leadership team and but we have a lot of room to go on cost.
Thats why when I say that there is more -- a bigger value creation story to be created in front of us were making great progress on our overhead ratios.
As we exit the year were lower than weve been.
I would probably have to go back to the early 2000s to find a ratio that compares to this but weve got a lot further to go.
We still have probably 200 basis points of opportunity in overheads.
And so were working on that and we got to do it in a disciplined way.
Its got to be tied to efforts we make to simplify the way we work complexity reduction but all these costs will eventually flow to a pool of money that can be either used to put back into the business or can flow to margin expansion.
So were on that.
I think we wont put money into the business unless we have something strategic to spend it on.
As we think forward to 2016 and 2017 remember we set our eyes -- we said our deployment strategy for our portfolio is to first focus south and then east.
While we have been focusing south we delivered 20 plus percent core sales growth last year with this year 2013 20 plus percent core growth in Latin America 2014 20 plus percent core growth again.
And so we are seeing the yield on those investments but the next horizon is Southeast Asia and China for us and that will come with cost.
Now we are not just going to throw money at it.
We got to validate that our brands can work that we can build brands in those markets.
We are looking for efficient routes to market in those geographies but those will be -- the money will flow there.
There will be uses of funds connected to those choices.
What I do not want to do in the near-term is mortgage our home markets in order to pay for that.
So establishing our foothold in Southeast Asia and China will requirement incremental investment and well do that in a disciplined way.
Weve always said that we want to deliver operating income margin expansion at the same time as we are pushing those investments in.
So well strike a balance.
When we get our advertising and promotion ratios to somewhere around 7% I think weve got our work done.
Weve gotten that ratio to where it needs to be able to be support our business and grow our business and build market share in our home markets and then extend the footprint of the business.
Were not there yet.
Were a couple of years away from reaching that milestone I think.
But thats the algorithm thats the financial algorithm to the company; get gross margins to 40s; get the E&amp;P to 6 to 7; get the overheads as low as they possibly can be and let the balance flow through to operating income margin.
And thats what were trying to do with the growth game plan.
Okay great.
Thank you and thanks for all that color and then just I think just a follow up on one of the earlier questions about the portfolio.
So obviously youre busy this past year with three nice tuck-in acquisitions.
So as you do look at the portfolio are there some glaring I wont call them holes but like areas that you feel that there is an opportunity to really kind of strengthen a core win bigger category at this point and are there assets out there that kind of hit that bell.
So I was just kind of wondering how I guess aggressive youre looking right now as opposed to kind of the blocking and tackling that youre doing in the core business as we think about 2015? I think our principles for what were going to do havent changed at all from what Ive said before that we start with a strategic rationale were focused in the core of our business.
We want to scale all five of our categories we want to scale the company in general.
But thats sort of the opportunity in front of us.
So scale those five categories through bolt-ons and grow the company as a whole.
Our energy is focused in the core right now and there are clearly some interesting assets out there but the challenge is extracting them from the current owners and getting alignment convergence on those opportunities that are not easy.
So we will be on hunt again in 2015.
You should expect us to be active.
Whether we convert anything or not its completely a question mark.
In the very short-term the next few months were focused on really getting the value from the choices weve made already and but our confidence were ready organizationally our confidence is increasing our core agenda.
Were starting to get a kind of traction that proves the models working and that gives us some more latitude and room to complement that with M&amp;A.
Okay great and well see you down at Florida in a few weeks.
Yeah great thanks.
Your next question comes from Constance Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Good morning.
I dont know if you touched on this but could you help us understand the influences on the gross margin because they were the accretive acquisitions and I think theyre going to be at least partially offset by the transaction costs from FX so having said how did those factors and anything else positive raw material how do they combine for an outlook for the gross margin this year? Yeah so Connie weve said there our acquisitions are accretive at the operating margin level not gross margin levels.
They are accretive to Home Solutions but theyre not accretive to the total company.
So there is a mix negative that comes as those filter in a mix positive to Home Solutions a mix negative for the company.
The other thing thats going to happen to us this year is that Baby recovery Home Solutions recovery those will work against as well will the ForEx.
So I think its going to be a difficult year on gross margins it was brilliant year on gross margin for us.
Well continue to press aggressively on our Win Bigger businesses which are all most all accretive.
The key things that are of interest within those portfolios so I dont know how to play out but this will be a much different year than last year with respect to the aggregate effect at gross margin.
If you think about it on a pro forma basis were definitely going to increase gross margins this year.
So if you were to layer all the acquisitions into the year ago numbers were focused on 30 to 50 basis points of gross margin improvements on a pro forma basis and thats probably the right way for us to think about it going forward.
And operating income margins because of the incredibly the great fixed cost leverage we get from those assets they are clearly accretive but if you want to make sure I clarified that.
So were focused on pricing obviously Project Renewals is really important its not just in overheads but obviously in the flow through of some of the more interesting projects that are in there to gross margin.
Simplification of our supply chain organization structure flows through the gross margin and so there is a lot of levers we will be pulling to try to maximize the impact but the way we are thinking about gross margin this year given the acquisitions is that we will grow our gross margins on a pro forma basis.
But it doesnt change our strategic view.
We will continue to build towards that 40% number.
And we will see whether we can build them in aggregate.
That will be one of those sort of stretching goals we set for everybody.
Now on an actual basis what we are going to see reported not pro forma? Yeah it will be tough to see growth on gross margin percentage.
Okay thats helpful another question on the transaction impact in effect.
We can all pretty much calculate the translation impact but on the transaction side of it which segments and which geographies are going to be most affected by transaction effect? We source our Baby business from -- in many ways from China.
So you get a dollar denominated transaction platform there.
So anywhere outside the U.S.
where we have a Baby business there is going to be -- there will be a challenge.
So unless those currencies are connected to the dollar which most of them arent you are going to have -- you have an issue of pressure in those areas.
The transaction impact it will be euro denominated it will be Canadian dollars a f big issue for us because we source out of the U.S.
into Canada.
So Id say its euro and its Canadian dollar we have our Europe purchase [ph] companies based in Switzerland so we have a Swiss Franc driven cost up charge that we got to deal with but I think the balance will be -- its the yen its the euros the Canadian dollar.
We have some stuff in Latin America but its lot easier for us to -- and obviously Brazil and Mexico and Venezuela are issues but we can price more easily in those markets to cover.
So the transaction issues that you should think about largely Canada Japan and Europe and it has to do with where we source from.
And if I could just ask one last question on the composition of the 16.5% core sales increase in Latin America could you break that down between volume and price? We dont typically break it down because its difficult for us to actually have visibility to it but its -- Id say its probably more than 50% price this past year and that will shift the other direction next year.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Sorry about that Mike.
I was on mute.
Just two quick questions CFO if you could just give us an update on kind of how thats progressing in terms of the search? And then the second question is just wanted to -- it looks like the writing business is really starting to react and respond to lot of spending.
How is the fine writing business doing in some of the key geographies that you have a presence in? Well first of all on the CFO search we have our Board meeting the week after next and coming out of that we should have the search resolved and I appreciate everything thats John done for us over the last five months now and we will bring that to a close at that point in time and I am excited by the choice we will make got the recommendation into the Board.
Well just kind of tie it up with them in the couple of weeks.
On writing its been very exciting to watch the responsiveness of this business to investment.
Its been terrific and I think the underlying growth in Q4 is really pretty extraordinary at 9.3% when you adjust for SAP timing.
So this is a very responsive business to investment.
The innovation funnel is stronger than its been a long time.
We got great advertising now.
And so we are very well positioned.
We were in London last week for the opening of a museum dedicated to Parker thats in one of our facilities.
And weve re-launched the Parker brand -- we are in the midst of re-launching the Parker brand we re-launched the Waterman last year we re-launched Rotring last year.
We saw very good growth particularly in Q4 on fine writing in Asia and as we finished up the exits in Europe we should see that business start to get some good traction.
I love this business.
I am particularly intrigued about Parker and Rotring and what we can do with those two brands.
We have not focused our investment dollars within Writing on that business yet.
We have focused them on Sharpie on Paper Mate on Expo on Mr.
Sketch and also on Dymo.
But the next -- one of the next opportunities we have is to place some meaningful money behind those businesses.
This is a very high gross margin business but also a very high SG&amp;A business.
So one of the challenges in this business is a plus [ph] profitable on the balance of Writing portfolio.
So we have to be thoughtful about how we go to market and whether we can figure out how to shift the money that are in SG&amp;A that are focused on fixtures and furniture to more dedicated brand support.
And we are working through that.
And with the brand work thats happened over the last 18 months and with some of the thinking thats going out in this area that I just mentioned I think we are getting ourselves into a position where a little bit more investment maybe warranted.
But our priority is clearly within Writing around Paper Mate on Sharpie on Expo on the [indiscernible] business on Prismacolor on Dymo before we would take a big pat on Fine Writing given the margin differences and the potential for deployment on the balance of the Writing portfolio.
Great thanks Mike.
Hey Lauren.
Hey just a couple of questions on baby first was just a mention of China in the release surprised me because I thought that -- like you said the Southeast Asia and China expansion plans were sort of a more into 15 into 16 plans so curious on that.
And then secondly talk a little bit about Baby Jogger why the acquisition what your plans are there for the distribution the synergy opportunities that are because it strikes me as a pretty well distributed brand but that maybe geographically biased? Thanks.
Yeah its actually got a pretty good broad footprint.
It actually opens up Australia to us.
We didnt have a Baby business in Australia so Baby Jogger opens up Australia with a sizable presence there.
Its got a presence in Europe.
So we are pleased with the sort of the anchors it creates for us to work from and more importantly though we are playing in a completely different space than Graco plays.
So Graco obviously a world leading brand strong positions in many markets around the world mainstream brand with opportunities for premiumization and we are playing that story out and thats part of why in 2012 2013 you saw a double-digit growth and you have seen great margin developments since we started we doubled the operating income margin coming into 2014 and now we are putting real money behind it so we are stepping back.
So you have seen a great story in the core of this business and you will see really nice momentum building back here in 15 after the disruption of the first part of 14.
The beauty of Baby Jogger is that it plays in a completely different space.
Its first of all Graco is suburban positioned brand Baby Jogger is an urban positioned brand and its a super-premium brand.
So some of these Joggers go for $600 $700 $800 per Jogger.
Graco tops out around $400 and so it plays in a completely different part of the -- what we call the need state [ph] map.
And so its going to be largely incremental to our core Baby business suite which is why we were interested in it.
Remember when we do M&amp;A we are looking for either brands that can play where our current brands dont from a market development perspective or technologies or geographic deployment opportunities and this one checked two boxes.
It had a broader footprint which opens up a couple of new market for Baby it even plays in a different part of the map so very excited.
On China we had a great quarter in China.
We are the leader in the Chinese gear market with Graco.
We source from China.
I wouldnt read it as a big strategic thrust and if thats how it came off in the press release thats certainly not the intent.
But we have a nice business in China.
We are the leader.
The market is small as I mentioned before and until [indiscernible] legislation is broadly enforced in China the market will stay small.
We want to be positioned to play in China in baby when that moment happens theres lots of cars and theres lots of babies.
So that sets up well for the baby care business but until there is a regulatory framework being enforced the market wont develop as quickly as it has developed in other developed world markets.
So its anomaly of a quarter I guess is the way I would describe as opposed to reflection of the strategic thrust.
Okay great and then one other thing if I may on the emerging markets just any broad commentary you can offer again on why your growth seem so disconnected from macro slowdown.
Youre seeing slowdown in construction in big cities but there is no impact on the tools business or commercial products so any commentary you can offer will be great.
Its from where we start Lauren.
Were building and deploying a portfolio.
Although were seeing terrific growth in sell-throughs.
So we know that were on the right track here.
But we start from a little lower bar.
Were not starting with this big established business.
We got -- its more than a $100 million worth of business now in Brazil and its great.
But we have so much more opportunity in front of us.
So our businesses tend to be less connected to GDP in the emerging markets and are more of function of what we do.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Your next question will come from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just to follow up on some of the comments you made earlier on the writing business that business just continues to kind of astound me in terms of its relative profitability and I wonder first of all kind of when you think about that business over the next two to three to four years sort of in a context of what youve said about how that business responds to advertising I mean do you think net-net margins in writing have still room to expand further and specific to that I think you talked at the analyst day a little bit about media expanding writing on into Asia if its not late 2015 then into 2016.
How much margin dilution could that represent for the overall writing segment or is that sort of do you think it would be de minimus? Well we have to look at that really carefully and we will.
That probably results in some step back in the percentages.
Were not focused on growing the operating income margin on writing.
Were focused on revenue generation.
This business and baby believe it or not are the highest return on net asset businesses weve got.
So there is huge value creation to be had even though baby dilutes margins for us there is really strong value creations sought to be had by growing these businesses.
I think we have the tremendous opportunities still within the writing business to confront the complexity of that portfolio to confront complexity in our manufacturing footprint and the movement of componentry around the world.
And theres going to be a lot of cost that will come out as a result of Project Renewal in 16 and to 17 connected to really improving the manufacturing footprint of that business and simplifying the portfolio.
The question will be do we have a use for those monies within writing which could be related to deployment into Southeast Asia and into China or do we have another business that will tap those monies and that are a higher priority for us.
Now its hard to imagine what that would be given writings margins and given writings ability to draft [ph] on the back of economic developments thats happening in the emerging markets.
With economic development and social development access to education our writing business hits right in the middle of that mega trend.
Theres going to - its unstoppable in the emerging markets irrespective of whats happening with economic development on a rate basis.
You just got the power of numbers in those geography people.
And so people are moving out of poverty into the middle class and we want to be there in those education systems if we can be.
So I think if were able to unlock more cost and margin in that business we will probably put it back in to that business to enable the geographic deployment into Southeast Asia and China.
So dont look for a flow-through of savings to percentage margin improvement in writing.
We are already well north of 20% operating margins in that business.
So if we grow it we -- disproportionately we get this great sort of virtuous benefit as a company in total.
And to the extent of that is one of the businesses that lends itself maybe on just sort of online better than some of your other segments what are the revenues like or the margins like when you sell something on Amazon versus at Stables are you margin agnostic if you will? As you know we sell our products at parity cost to all of our customers if they meet certain criteria.
So how they price our products to the end consumer is the call they make.
And so different retailers take different margins and as a result you see different price points at retail.
The interesting thing about -- I think there is tremendous opportunities across the total landscape.
You are seeing this major shift going on in this market in the U.S.
as some of the traditional writing retailers shift their business model to become more broad commercial facing businesses with their professional portions of their model.
And I think that's where they see the growth long-term.
But our pricing is common across the landscape and so you won't see pricing differential.
From a margin perspective obviously there is a higher cost.
There are different layers of cost depending on which retailer you're talking about and traditional retailers you're going to have a higher SG&amp;A cost because you have your selling cost to cover at retail landscape physical space.
But then there is distribution cost associated with the e-retailers that tend to be a little bit higher if you are selling out of your facilities.
So it's all the way down the operating income margin I think you are always more profitable where you have growth and that's how I like to think about the differences across the retail landscape.
So you want to reach consumers where they shop and you want to grow with the growing customer.
That drives sort of our choices.
Perfect thanks so much.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning.
Hey the receivable balance is in the second quarter in a row at a big year-over-year tick up.
Was there like a bit difference in the timing of orders through the quarter or is there something else going on there? So I think it was up on our math like eight days year-over-year.
Remember you've got the acquisitions coming into the receivables balances.
So be careful in how you calculate your days numbers.
In fact all the working capital metrics look different now with those guys in.
One second on that because I think that the cash flow tables is excluding the effects of the acquisitions and investments on your reported one.
So maybe I? Okay I'm not sure what numbers you're referring to but I am pretty sure the receivables balances I was looking at had -- we'll come back to you on the specifics Bill.
But on your point though your point is right where our orders in the first quarter came later than we would have liked.
So we have some receivables that are hung up that are reverse in the first quarter as a positive but you're right they came later than we would have liked.
Okay and then just and maybe it's not a fair question because I mean I'm not sure you have the data handy.
But can you just tell us what your fixed overhead is now dollar as a percentages.
And then how you kind of bring this acquisitions in? So when you buy these companies are you taking just the brands and a few people or you bring the infrastructure also? And then part of that can you just give us like a EPS number accretion number that you're assuming for 2015 on the deals? Yeah we haven't quoted a specific number Bill but let me give you the overhead ratio that you're looking for.
As we exit the year we're just below 20% in terms of overhead ratio which gives you the size of the -- allows you to kind see the opportunity.
All three deals are accretive to operating income and to EPS and I've seen a bunch of different notes about it -- about them and in general theyre pretty accurate.
So I don't know how to get more specific than that without telling you what the numbers are.
And they all come -- there different approach with the different -- the three different businesses so clearly Baby Jogger we're buying a brand we're buying some people that have built that brand.
But that's clearly being integrated into the baby businesses so they will be run out of Atlanta.
Our beverage acquisitions there are really two different approaches.
Our beverage acquisitions will be run out of the Contigo Ignite office by the Ignite team.
So our -- bubba acquisition will be integrated into our Chicago operations lead by the Ignite team.
So rather than that business come in to this building here in Atlanta our priority was to sustain the growth momentum these businesses have.
And while bubbas the smaller of the two beverage businesses clearly its a great brand different position from Contigo.
To me thats the real opportunity for the leadership team of Contigo thats built this beautiful business thats keep on growing to take hold of that asset and take hold of Rubbermaid and build an integrated beverage strategy for us.
So there is less cost synergies in the Contigo deal the Ignite there is some more there is more in bubba and there is a fair amount in Baby Jogger.
Okay great and then how patience you will be on the home products turnaround especially Rubbermaid home I know you got new management there and they are still some line exits to happen and I also know and I agree with you that the equity is massively [ph] monetized relative to the awareness.
So what do you think the sort of runway is for that? Right now if I add another dollar to spend on our brand I put in against Sharpie or Paper Mate given the responsiveness.
We have work to do still on Rubbermaid to clean it up and get it ready for growth.
We are doing that.
We are putting nice money behind Rubbermaid food storage to build that business and be [indiscernible] within that portfolio and so those are where the bets would go but we got to be disciplined in terms of our priorities across the portfolio.
So there is its a little early for us to be pushing money against home solutions if there is an opportunity still to be had on commercial products tools or writing.
So I am patient on that.
Its always been modeled in the way we are seeing it.
I mean we took a choice in 2014 to pull back hard on the throttle on some of the portions of the portfolio that were less attractive so that we can create space within our manufacturing footprint for the things that we wanted to emphasize that use the same technology for the most part and so we are pivoting that business.
I think the first half you will see some continued challenges.
The really interesting thing that John and I were talking about just the other day we can deliver nice core growth on Rubbermaid consumer if you want to lean into some of these higher volume low margin businesses like we have in the past.
We are not just not going to do it though.
So I think we are quite patient with Home Solutions.
We should see decent growth this year on top line given the investment we are pretty behind the innovations that are coming.
We should see very good growth on Rubbermaid food storage and in the beverage segments and there is some opportunity on -- you need to see some growth as well but I think the balance of the portfolio you should expect not to be growing until we sort the brand out I think the Rubbermaid investment will be opportunistic and focused on food storage.
And if I could add we still have some work to do as part of Renewal Three on the Rubbermaid consumer business In terms of getting the gross margin back to a place where its more attractive for us to invest in as Mike mentioned.
So thats something else we plan to tackle as part of our third leg of renewal.
Great thanks so much and sorry I interrupted you in the first question.
I didnt feel like you interrupted me.
What was the first question? It was about the receivables? We will get back to you on the receivables questions.
I think you are right on the receivables.
So -- the receivables numbers I looked at include the acquisition balances.
So you are looking at a different statement.
We will get back to -- I will have Nancy give you a call work through the numbers with you.
That sounds good.
Thanks.
Hey Dara.
So just want to follow up on your comments on M&amp;A earlier in the call given the acquisitions recently can you just revisit your view on returning cash to shareholders versus the allure of acquisitions and potential to increase your dividend payout ratio overtime? Look we set three priorities in our capital allocation if you can find bolt-ons that are accretive that are strategically interesting we would do them.
You have seen the types assets that we are talking about.
We continue to -- with our line of sight to savings we continue to think the company is undervalued and clearly weve been active in terms of passing capital back to shareholders through our share repurchase program and given our line of sight on renewals well continue -- and the growth potential in this business we will continue to do that.
I dont think the market quite appreciates the story in part because of the choices we are making strategically to exit businesses in Europe which cost 40 basis points in the core growth and because of the work we did on Rubbermaid consumer which cost us another chunk of core sales growth in 2014 and will in the first half of 15.
So I dont think we are -- believe the market yet sees the full value of what we are doing which is fine.
It gives us opportunity to take more shares off the table.
So we will continue to focus in that way.
Our principle right now is that our payout ratio needs to be 30% to 35% and if we didnt believe that we had good growth opportunities in front of us we might take a different point of view on that.
Obviously the fast moving consumer goods guys that are -- to the slower growth at this point are -- they have 40% to 50% payout ratios.
If we didnt believe in what I was just saying before we would shift your philosophy or you would work with the core consumer [ph] see what the comfortable shift in the philosophy.
We are not there right now and while it doesnt say that in the future we wouldnt change that point of view.
Okay thanks.
And in your 2015 earnings guidance can you tell us one level of oil you are budgeting and are you assuming any improvement in U.S.
macros or rebounding U.S.
consumer spending in the revised topline guidance? We havent assumed any recovery.
So its more the same.
So if that were to happen that would be fun and exciting.
I havent seen that since I have been here.
But that will be terrific to get a little tailwind.
We have assumed current market on resin.
We really dont focus on oil too much.
So we are looking at the markets the biggest commodity driver for us isnt really the primary commodity its the derivatives.
So its the resin cost.
So we have assumed that the markets are just down for the primary commodity which it has and it is in the midst of doing although the resin guys are a little sticky in terms that they are passing through the energy benefits.
And then we have got this dynamic at the end of the year as I described that relates to capacity.
And whether more capacity is going to come online as our suppliers suggest it will whether that algorithm economically for them still makes sense in todays energy environment is something that remains to be seen but our assumptions are really kind of tied to the resin cost as opposed to oil.
Okay thanks.
Good morning.
Thanks for fitting me in.
I just want to [indiscernible] may be advertising.
So clearly it seems like the Writing category gives you some benefits from some of their advertising investments.
So any more color or updates you can provide in terms of what you are seeing from increased advertising.
We talked about this a little bit at the end of September at Analyst Day and we will update it again in a couple of weeks at Cagny with the latest data we have.
Obviously Writing is very responsive the Baby Care business was really responsive to advertising around innovation the point of sale around the Forever Car Seat was really quite strong and there was a combination of the innovation and the message and the merchandising and the customer support that we got.
So its not just the advertising its the synergistic effect of advertising merchandising placements pricing all those things coming together.
Thats said we have seen a more responsiveness than we have -- than I ever envisioned us getting to be honest with you.
Its not been true everywhere.
When we tied a message to innovation we get the best growth yield that obviously makes some intuitive sense but that lessons have been confirmed through the work we are doing which is why you see some of our communication more of our communication shifting in that direction.
But we will report out in a couple of weeks at Cagny how that story played out but its a pretty broad based story across multiple categories.
And I think part of this and we have to be careful is that these categories have not been advertised for a long -- these businesses have not been advertised for a long time.
So putting the brand out there like that obviously has got some traction.
Whether of the second year of doing it we will get the same traction for the same dollar is a question mark and we have to be thoughtful about whether the incrementality you get to a point of diminishing returns on the incrementality of the growth yield.
And thats something we will be watching as we go through 15.
But on balance the story is very positive across the whole patch and we will decide whether we want to continue what we are doing exactly as we have or we will take some lessons learned on some of those things that havent worked.
Okay and just a clarification question on your thoughts for operating margins this year did I hear correctly that you expect operating margins to be down this year? No we expect operating margins to be up.
We expect gross margins to be down a little bit and we are going to try to do everything we can to get it back to where we would like it to be which is flat or up.
But you have got a significant mix effect the gross margin.
But at operating margin we are going to get leverage through revenue growth we are going to get leverage through Project Renewal and the sustained focus we have got on overheads and even within that algorithm of gross margin being flattish as reported but up on a pro forma basis we will get the flexibility to spend to more in A&amp;P and we watch it quite closely and believe that that outlook is one we can deliver.
Thank you Hey Steph.
Sorry about that this is Travis on for Steph.
In the Baby business can you talk about how you are investing in digital assets to connect with the millennial mom? So obviously the Baby business 70% of the baby care category is done amongst first time expected moms.
So you have to be connected with that younger constituent.
A good chunk of the decision making happens through the connections that those moms have with each other or with their sisters or with their neighbors or with their friends and we are very active in participating in those conversations.
Many of them happen on line many of them happen through registry platforms and so this is -- our Baby business spends a chunk of money building the brands and the innovations and awareness through television and the vast majority of the money beyond that is spent in digital and we are very actively curating our own platforms and working with customers to curate theirs in order to make sure that we are participating in those dialogues.
Thats part of how this brand has been built overtime.
This is probably the most aggressive digitally connected team that I have got and obviously the consumer is the most digitally engaged because 70% of the ear mark [ph] is done amongst first time expected moms which tend to be the 23 to 27 year old women.
Awesome and also real quick can you talk a little bit about the innovation pipeline and what opportunities our brands will be emphasizing in 2015? So our pipeline is stronger than its been over the last four years.
Every Mark profiled this at analyst day gave you some of the key metrics there.
We wouldnt share any new news with respect to the strengthening and lengthening of the funnel the increase in project size and the more disruptive nature of the funnel in general.
We are in market now with a number of innovations from Calphalon to Writing to our Tools business and I wouldnt want to put anything out there in this forum that would disclose too much of the forward-looking view to our competitors.
But be rese assured our funnel is stronger than it was last year and last years was stronger than year before and a critical enabler to us effectively taking our growth guidance up for core sales to the acceleration phase metric we committed to back in 2012 one year earlier then we otherwise expected to be able to do.
Awesome.
Thank you very much and I am looking forward to 2015.
Great so are we.
Thank you Okay I think thats it.
I am talking to myself probably.
So we want to thank you all for your support for the questions and I appreciate all the feedback.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Please standby we are about to begin.
Good morning.
And welcome to Newell Rubbermaids First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After a brief discussion by management we will open up the call for questions.
As a reminder todays conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of the call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy ODonnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
ODonnell you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I want to welcome you to Newell Rubbermaids first quarter earnings call.
With me here in Atlanta are Mike Polk President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Stipancich our Chief Financial Officer.
Ill remind you that our discussion today will include forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to risk.
Actual results may differ materially.
Newell encourages you to review the explanation of the latest risks and uncertainties provided in our earnings release and in our most recent 10-K filing.
In addition certain information presented and discussed today constitutes non-GAAP financial measures we have provided in our press release and 8-K filing reconciliations on a GAAP basis for these measures.
With that I will turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Before we discuss our Q1 results I'd like to briefly address two new strategic initiatives approved by the Newell Rubbermaid Board of Directors.
First this morning we announced our decision to expand the third phase of Project Renewal beyond our current supply chain focused initiatives to include the next level of cost out work in our corporate overhead and business partnering functions.
This new authorization would utilize $150 million in incremental restructuring and project-related costs to generate $150 million an incremental annualized savings by the end 2017.
Weve made good progress increasing our brand spending through 2014 and we will continue to increase investment this year and beyond.
In this context a significant amount of incremental savings generated from the expansion of Project Renewal will be reinvested in new capabilities and brand support but with an increasingly higher proportionate of the incremental savings flow to margin and earnings than in the earlier phases of Project Renewal.
Secondly this morning we announced our intention to sell our Rubbermaid medical cart business.
This business is not core for Newell.
The medical carts business had net sales of roughly $65 million in 2014.
In 2015 the Rubbermaid medical cart business will be treated as planned divestiture and therefore excluded from core sales.
So with this preambles done let's get into our results.
We have had a very good start to the year.
Core sales grew 4.7% net sales grew 4.1% with 550 basis point negative impact from foreign currency largely offset by a net contribution of 490 basis points from acquisitions and planned divestitures.
Normalized gross margin increased 50 basis points driven by input cost deflation productivity and pricing partially offset by negative foreign exchange and the mix effect from acquisitions.
This improvement funded a 50 basis point increase in advertising and promotion as a percentage of sales with advertising up nearly 40% versus prior year.
Despite the significant increase in brand support normalized operating income margin improved 90 basis points as a result of our progress on overheads.
Normalized EPS was $0.36 $0.02 ahead of consensus and 5.9% ahead to prior year.
We achieved this normalized EPS growth despite having to overcome the negative impacts of about $0.08 due to foreign currency and $0.04 due to the absence of prior year discrete benefits in our tax rate.
Our first quarter growth was broad based with core sales growth in all five segments.
We delivered $0.05 core sales growth in North America and over 25% core growth in Latin America which more than offset weakness in Europe and currency-related challenges in Russia.
We continued to deliver very strong growth on our Win Bigger businesses.
Combined our three Win Bigger businesses grew core sales 7.4%.
Writing grew core sales 9% driven by increased market share in those geographies as a result of strong innovation and increased marketing investment and pricing.
Commercial Products also grew core sales 9% as a result of new innovation and strong sales execution in the U.S.
and China.
Tools grew core sales over 3% driven by solid mid single-digit growth in North America and Latin America.
Positive momentum in Writing Commercial Products and Tools has helped us absorb the continued impact of our strategic choice to reposition the Rubbermaid Consumer business for profitable growth.
In Q1 Home Solutions core sales grew 0.9% with double-digit Rubbermaid Food Storage growth offsetting plan to declines on the low margin Rubbermaid Consumer Storage business.
Our newly acquired Contigo and bubba brands delivered outstanding results and enabled Home Solutions net sales growth of 15.2%.
Our Baby business grew core sales 0.8% with strong growth in North America of nearly 80% and stabilization of the business in Asia offsetting weakness in Europe.
Our newly acquired Baby Jogger business delivered strong results and enabled Baby net sales growth of 7.1%.
We are pleased with our start to the year.
We have had a strong start to global core sales.
We have sustained excellent growth in our Win Bigger businesses.
We've got Baby momentum building in key markets outside of Europe.
We have had a strong contribution from acquisitions offsetting the net impact of currency to yield over 4% net sales growth.
We have got expanding gross margins despite unprecedented currency pressure.
We've got increased normalized operating income margin despite another large step up in brand investment.
All yielding nearly 6% normalized EPS growth and strong double-digit EPS growth in a currency neutral basis.
We have building momentum in our business and our strong start to the year is evidence of the progress we are making.
Let me hand the call over to John to go through our results in a little bit more detail then Ill return to provide perspective on the balance of 2015.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
First quarter reported net sales were $1.26 billion a 4.1% increase versus last year.
Core sales which exclude acquisitions foreign currency and the planned disposal of our Rubbermaid medical cart business increased 4.7%.
The net impact of acquisitions and planned divestitures contributed 490 basis points to reported net sales.
Foreign currency had a negative impact of 550 basis points.
The strong core sales performance was led by Writing Commercial Products and Tools our Win Bigger businesses aided by improvements in Baby and Home Solutions.
Reported gross margin was 38.6% with normalized gross margin at 38.8% up 50 basis points over last year.
This improvement was driven by productivity lower input costs pricing and favorable business mix which more than offset unfavorable currency and the negative mix impact from the gross margin structure of our recent acquisitions.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $337.9 million or 26.7% of sales down 50 basis points versus prior year.
Our 110 basis point reduction of overheads fueled a 50 basis point increase in advertising and promotion with the balance of the overhead savings flowing the offset FX headwinds.
We invested incremental A&amp;P across all five segments with the largest year-over-year increases in Baby Writing and Commercial Products.
In Baby we supported advertising campaign for our Graco Nautilus 3-in-1 Car Seat.
Our Writing segment benefited from advertising for Sharpie Clearview Highlighters and investments in e-commerce and incremental in-store merchandising activity.
In the Rubbermaid Commercial we ran numerous concurrent campaigns in North America China and Brazil to support BRUTE Containers HYGEN Microfiber Cleaning WaveBreak Mop Buckets and our new Maximizer Mops.
Normalized operating margin was 12.1% up 90 basis points reflecting the benefit of project renewal and other cost-savings initiatives partially offset by an increase in strategic investment and significant FX headwinds.
Reported operating margin was 7.8% compared with 8.6% in the prior year.
Interest expense of $19.2 million increased $4.8 million year-over-year reflecting the impact of our late 2014 debt refinancing and higher overall borrowings related to our acquisitions in the back half of last year.
Our normalized tax rate was 27.2% compared with 18.3% a year ago due to the absence of prior year discrete benefits.
We still expect our full year normalized 2015 tax rate to be around 24%.
Normalized EPS which excludes restructuring and other project costs was $0.36 a 5.9% increase to last year despite about $0.08 of FX headwinds.
And on a reported basis first quarter EPS was $0.20 compared with $0.19 last year.
Ill now move on to our segment results starting with Writing.
Reported first quarter net sales declined 1.8% to $341.8 million.
Core sales increased 9% with continued high single-digit growth in North America.
Were driving strong POS in the U.S.
thanks to the combined impact of increased A&amp;P and more robust merchandising efforts.
And our Writing businesses in emerging markets are performing well with pricing and strong sellout fueling good Latin America results and a healthy start to the year for fine writing in Asia.
Q1 normalized operating margin in the Writing segment was 24.3% a 240 basis point increase over the prior year due to strong productivity pricing favorable mix and cost management which more than offset foreign currency impacts and increased advertising and promotion spend.
Net sales in our Home Solutions segment grew 15.2% to $364.5 million with acquisitions contributing $48.4 million.
Core sales increased 90 basis points due to solid result at our Decor business and growth in Rubbermaid Food Storage which more than offset our continued exit of portions of the low-margin Consumer Storage business and a comparison against last year's Calphalon pipeline fill at a major new customer.
We continue to see strong growth in Rubbermaid Food Storage fueled by increased advertising and promotion.
Home Solutions normalized operating margin was 10.6% up 210 basis points reflecting the accretive impacts of acquisitions and lower input costs.
Our Tools segment delivered net sales of $180.4 million a 3.9% decrease all of which and then some was driven by FX.
Core sales grew 3.2%.
Tools delivered another good quarter in Latin America reflecting the continuing success of our Irwin offerings in Brazil.
Our Lenox Industrial Tools business also grew nicely in North America and in EMEA thanks to distribution gains and pricing offsetting softening in the market in APAC.
Normalized operating margin in the Tools segment was 12.3% a 90 basis point improvement versus last year.
This increase was driven by disciplined overhead cost management partially offset by increased advertising and promotion and negative FX.
Reported net sales in our Commercial Products segment increased 1.4% to $185.2 million.
Core sales increased 9% driven by pricing and strong volume growth in North America due to increased marketing support as well as strategic investments and expanded distribution in Asia Pacific.
Commercial Products normalized operating margin was 9.5% 190 basis point increase to last year due to pricing productivity and input cost benefits partially offset by higher advertising and promotion spend and negative FX.
Our baby segment reported $192.1 million in net sales a 7.1% increase compared to last year.
The Baby Jogger acquisition contributed $18.2 million in net sales during the quarter.
Core sales grew 80 basis points though Graco North America grew high single digits as we saw very good POS growth fueled by new innovative products and increased advertising and promotion.
Partially offsetting this growth was a decline in EMEA driven largely by macro related challenges in Russia and continued softness in the balance of Europe and exits.
Our baby business in Asia Pacific was essentially flat which is a great step forward compared to last year.
Babys normalized operating margin was 6.4% down 270 basis points from last year largely due to increased advertising and promotion spend to reignite growth pricing actions on the value end of our product line and key retailers to defend our core and negative FX.
Looking at Q1 core sales by geography North America core sales grew 5% with strong results from Writing baby and Commercial Products with all five segments contributing to growth.
In EMEA core sales declined 5.2% due largely to weakness in Russian baby.
However our normalized operating margin in EMEA continues to significantly improve exceeding last quarter's all-time high as a result of our extensive transformation initiatives in the region.
In Latin America core sales grew 25.5% reflecting pricing in the region and volume gains in Writing and Tools.
And finally Asia Pacific core sales declined 40 basis points as growth in our Writing and Commercial Products businesses was offset by softness in industrial bandsaw sales.
Moving on to cash in our balance sheet.
In Q1 we used $154.3 million in operating cash compared with the use of $92.1 million in the prior year.
This increase in use reflects our $70 million voluntary U.S.
pension contribution we made in the first quarter of 2015.
We returned $126.8 million to shareholders in Q1 including $53.2 million in dividends and $73.6 million to repurchase 1.9 million of our shares.
As of the end of Q1 we have $363 million available under our authorized open-market repurchase plan.
And finally our balance sheet remains healthy with significant cash on hand and about $423 million in liquidity.
Our balance sheet metrics continued to be strong giving us continued financial flexibility to support our expansion of project renewal and for further acquisitions should we choose to pursue them.
With that I will turn the call back over to Mike.
Thanks John.
Lets now turn to the balance of 2015.
This morning we reaffirmed our 2015 full year guidance of 3.5% to 4.5% core sales growth and normalized EPS of $2.10 to $2.18.
Weve had a strong start to the year and I believe we are continuing to track towards the midpoint of both full year guidance ranges.
Our latest view of the full year negative foreign currency impact to operating income is $0.35 to $0.37 about $0.04 worse than the impact previously communicated in the full year guidance.
We've taken action to cover as much of the new currency impact as possible with line of sight today to at least half of the incremental currency exposure.
We expect to close the balance of the gap over the next few quarters.
The expansion of project renewal should help.
Our conviction to steadily increase brand support remains strong given the core growth acceleration we are experiencing.
Our plans to increase brand investment remains unchanged despite the incremental currency pressure.
We expect to increased A&amp;P investment in 2015 by about 20%.
Our 2015 full year guidance assumes we sustain mid single-digit core growth in our Win Bigger businesses of Writing Tools and Commercial Products that we recover growth momentum on our baby business with acceleration from Q2 through the balance of the year that we deliver strong growth on Rubbermaid food storage offsetting planned declines on the low margin Rubbermaid Consumer Storage business that we deliver strong year-over-year growth on our newly acquired brands of Contigo Bubba and Baby Jogger.
And that we offset the negative impact of transaction Forex with positive pricing productivity and input cost deflation.
And we continue to reduced overheads which when is coupled with growth enables us to increase brand support.
There are two factors that can influence where we fall in our 2015 full year guidance ranges.
The first factor is the planned acceleration of growth in our baby business.
We expect baby core growth to accelerate through the balance of 2015 and deliver solid single-digit core growth for the full year.
We are well staged to deliver very good growth in North America and Japan behind strong innovation great customer partnering and increased marketing support.
We expect strength in North America and Japan to more than cover continued pressure in Europe.
We are investing significant marketing support behind baby innovation in 2015 in order to reignite growth while accepting the related operating income margin compression.
The second factor that could influence where we land in the full year is foreign exchange.
In 2014 our team did an excellent job overcoming $0.17 per share of negative currency impact to deliver underlying core sales growth acceleration and an all-time record normalized EPS results.
Our guidance assumes we do the same in 2015 overcoming an incremental negative $0.35 to $0.37 foreign currency impact while accelerating growth and delivering a third consecutive all-time high normalized EPS outcome for new Rubbermaid.
We are on track to achieve this outcome.
Our guidance assumes the major currencies are at current market rates and we continue to transact and translate at the SICAD rate in Venezuela.
While the valuation of Venezuelan bolivar seems likely at some point in the future we had access to the SICAD-I rate through options in the fourth quarter of 2014 and have raw material and inventory on hand to support the business well into the second half of 2015 without having to access anther option.
The company remeasures its financial statements in Venezuela at the end of each month at the exchange rate at which it expects to remit future dividends which for us is the SICAD rate.
In this context we will hold our current position on currency in Venezuela and to market conditions the currency framework over the laws change.
Obviously the environment remains dynamic and we will continue to adapt our plans and outlook to changing conditions.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance let me make a few comments regarding the phasing of this years sales and earnings.
While we had a terrific momentum on our Writing business having delivered core sales growth of 9% in Q1 2015 on top of year ago Q1 core sales growth of 7.9.
As we previously communicated our Q2 core growth rate should step back from these levels related to the shift of some back to school shipments on Writing from Q2 to Q3.
As a consequence and as previously shared we expect our Q2 total company core growth rate to be towards the bottom of our full year guidance range in Q2 and our Q3 core growth rate to be at or slightly above the higher end of our full year growth guidance range.
That said as a result of the building momentum in the business and the strong start to the year we now expect first half core sales growth to be at or near the middle of the full year guidance range of 4% above our prior expectations.
Normalized EPS growth will likely skewed towards the back half of the year driven by two factors.
First the Q2 negative foreign currency impact is now expected to increase to $0.11 to $0.12 per share versus the $0.08 impact experienced in Q1.
Q3 should experience the similar headwinds to Q2 with the negative impact begin to temper in Q4 assuming current market rates.
Second the majority of the incremental advertising and promotion investment planned for the balance of the year is tied to innovation launch and merchandising windows which are set to occur in May June July and August.
In this context we expect the first half normalized EPS growth rate to be just below the bottom of our full year growth guidance range of 5% and the second half normalized EPS growth rate to be just above the top of our full year growth guidance range of 9%.
So let me close by saying it had a very good start to the year delivering strong competitive results.
The growth game plan is accelerating.
We are investing to create advantage brand development and innovation capabilities and are backing them up with category leading marketing investment.
These investments have been enabled by our determination to make Newell leaner and more efficient and when coupled with actions to strengthen our portfolio are yielding both growth acceleration and margin expansion.
There is more opportunity ahead of us than behind.
And today we announced a new commitment to deliver incremental annualized overhead savings of $150 million by the end of 2017.
A significant amount of these new savings will be invested back into the business for further growth acceleration.
But as we scale our brand investment levels an increasingly higher proportion of the savings will flow through to margin in earnings.
About half of the project renewal Phase 3 annualized savings of $350 million will flow through to brand investment and half to the P&amp;L in earnings.
Were well in our way to transforming Newell Rubbermaid into a growth leader in our industry.
With the kind of growth acceleration we experienced in Q1 and a continued aggressive posture on cost we will simultaneously transform the margin structure of the company delivering what I think can be a competitively differentiated story of both category leading growth acceleration and margin development.
That is the growth game plan into action.
That is the new Newell Rubbermaid.
Let me now pass a line to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Hi Dara.
And Dara your line is open.
Sorry about that I was on mute.
So your guidance this year implies mid-20%s FX neutral EPS growth.
Obviously youve got a commodity benefit and youre pushing hard to offset FX but that level would still be much higher than your peers and your long-term guidance despite ad spend being up.
And youve now announced incremental cost savings that will help drive 2016 with half of the Phase 3 savings dropping to the bottom line.
So I guess the question is can you give us some insight on if the strong underlying EPS growth in 2015 is giving you more confidence for 2016 and 2017? Or why we shouldnt believe that some of the strength from this year is sustainable as you look out longer term and could allow you to beat the previously outlined EPS goals? Thanks Dara.
Good question.
Obviously were pleased with the start to the year.
It strengthens our conviction on multiple dimensions.
Its good evidence that the framework that we laid out in the growth game plan is really beginning to work.
We certainly will through the new tranche of savings captured in this mornings announcement have more flexibility than we did when we guided the acceleration phase of the growth game plan to greater than 4% core and greater than 10% EPS growth.
So I think your challenge on the future upside potential is real.
The thing that I would say is that the proof of the puddings in the eating so were one quarter into '15.
And we want to make sure we demonstrate consistency in the -- through the acceleration phase before we articulate a different point of view forward.
Of course we will always have the option to think about a more aggressive deployment of our selective portions of our portfolio into what I would describe is white space markets.
Weve talked about China on Writing for '16 but there's plenty of other white space out there.
And any decision to let the savings flow to greater than 10% EPS delivery would have to be measured against the opportunity to set up a different future by a more aggressive deployment of the portfolio particularly Writing than what we committed to do at this point.
Part of that will be governed by our organizational capacity to be able to handle that.
But that will be sort of the -- that will be the opportunity cost of letting it flow to EPS.
But we will face -- come to that fork in the road probably sometime in 16 second half or 17.
Okay.
And then on the Writing instruments front obviously you continue to post exceptional results there.
How sustainable is the market share gains behind that business in your mind as you look out over the next couple of years? What's the competitive response you're seeing and are there learnings from the success in that business you can apply to other businesses? Well we are -- the reason Writing is performing so well is because of these capabilities that weve built both on the development side of our agenda the brand development side of our agenda with a strengthened pipeline of innovation strengthened advertising sharpened packaging really some creative marketing programs coupled with real focus on getting the right assortment to retail to get the right merchandising frequency at retails.
So its a combination of the first two pillars of the growth game plan that its focus on making our brands really matter and that its focused on creating commercial value from the ideas we are driving throughout our selling and our delivery organization more broadly.
And so that's working -- beginning to work really well Id characterize.
I wouldnt say its perfect.
Id say theres more opportunity to strengthen the algorithm there and we have a stronger pipeline of ideas coming in 2016 than we even have in 15.
So I am encouraged.
I dont think we've seen the four competitive response yet Dara and well see that in Q3 when we come to that critical merchandising window.
We are very very well staged for that moment in time.
But I think we will start to see more competitiveness from the folks we are up against.
The thing that they will have a hard time competing against is the capability investments weve made.
So weve gone from a holding company to an operating company released all these costs that built us at a capabilities to crossover the top of these five segments.
That puts us in a position it is competitively advantaged capabilities relative to the folks we are up against.
I think that puts us in a sustained advantaged position versus the others.
That coupled with the cost out that's enabling us to put money behind the brands sets up a pretty good algorithm that should enable sustained share growth in our home markets and then the more perhaps more importantly long-term the deployment of our portfolio around the world.
That algorithm that model is as relevant to Writing as it is to Tools as it is to the core of our Commercial Products portfolio and increasingly to elements within Home Solutions and geographies within Baby.
And so when we think about the portion of our Home Solutions portfolio that could benefit from the same principles and same approach Food Storage our recently acquired Beverages businesses these offer similar types of opportunities long-term.
The challenge to us is to create the P&amp;L capacity to be able to play for all those opportunities.
So I think the capabilities are transferable even though the categories are quite different that's the model we are building.
I think the evidence is building that in fact the theory beyond the model can work and the time will tell how effective we are at driving towards the upside Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Hey Bill.
Hi Mike.
Good morning.
Hey.
Can you just breakdown the contribution of sales volume versus price and then kind of how you think about that going forward because it looks like I know you're much less resin exposed than you used to be but resin's clearly fallen off a cliff? So maybe the puts and takes on the resin deflation versus some of the trucking inflation and probably some SG&amp;A inflation as well? Then I have a follow-up if you don't mind? Yeah.
Sure.
Bill unlike other business Ive worked in and other people you cover.
The ability to tease apart volume from pricing is a little bit modeled here given our systems and the algorithms weve got behind those systems.
So Ill give you directional answers but not as prcising answers perhaps one of my peers could provide.
Further we have a lot of pricing in the algorithm this year as a result of our need to cover the transaction Forex issues around the world.
That's true in Europe.
That's true in Latin America.
We've even taken pricing on Writing in North America.
Its true in Canada where weve got Canadian dollar U.S.
dollar issues and across parts of Asia Pacific.
So we are taking we are doing the tough slog of pricing to cover transaction for Forex.
And that comes with some risk some volume although quite frankly we havent see the volume risks materialize at the rate some folks might have expect them too.
But Id say more than 50% of our growth this year is going to be the pricing related.
Thats not too dissimilar to where weve been in the prior year.
So it may skew a little bit further in that direction and well have to watch the volumes particularly as resin and other input cost fall our ability to hold the pricing weve taken in response to the transaction Forex impacts weve had maybe challenged.
And thats one of those things weve to watch and we were very vigilant on because were in the business of selling more stuff to consumers not just at a higher price.
But weve got a rise on that one and I think weve got the right balance on what weve done to date but we watch it very closely.
And out of the sort of mesh with the massive resin deflation we've seen.
I know it's an international situation on the transaction offset but do you think you can hold pricing in the U.S.
given how dramatically resin's declined recently? Well the part of our portfolio where that would be the biggest issue is the part of the portfolio we are pulling back from.
So while we dont have to differentiate the propositions its very difficult to hold price when resin -- when your input costs are falling.
And so the Consumer Storage business that we are really pulling back hard on the throttle on is the place where were most vulnerable.
And in part that's why were moving away from that portion of our business.
And searching into the place we can create a point of difference which is food storage.
We've said that there are three food storage platforms that we want to develop over time.
One is food on the go.
One is -- and portion control.
One is a better approach to storage in-home and in-fridge and in-pantry and the third is food preservation.
All under this umbrella we called food storage.
The work were doing to build our propositions in our products in this area will allow us to command the premium price because they will have a product based point of difference and the brand promise will provide the kind of -- the right emotional connection to consumers.
That mix of activities is what allows you to hold price.
And retailers want us to bring that kind of value proposition to their shelves so they can hold price.
Its in the areas where you can create those points of difference where we will have to be very careful and watch the volume.
And we may not be able to hold price in every area where we don't have a differentiated set of propositions.
But thats in fact is why were contracting that portion of our portfolio and taking the same manufacturing capacity that supports that business and transferring it to support the differentiated platform and storage that we -- and beverages that we believe it.
Got you.
Great.
And then just a follow-up is is there any disconnect between sell-in and sell-through in some of these international markets because obviously distributors in a lot of other categories have been destocking as they adjust to kind of the macro environment and the currency moves.
And then what would the impact be if you guys had to go to the SIMADI rate in terms of EPS? I'm sure it's in the 10-Q.
I just haven't had a chance to read it yet.
Yeah.
Those are different questions Bill.
So let me handle the sell-in and sell-out question then I will pass to John on Venezuela.
But there is always balancing issues that are going on either in your developed world of retail partners and in the distributive trade.
We had -- weve experienced that.
We don't intend to call it out because I think it is the normal course of doing business.
It's rebalancing that retailers are always doing and trying to drive inventories out which does constrain your ability to drive sell-in.
But thats for us to deal with.
I must say there is a huge event.
I wouldnt call that out as the reason why we're dealing with revenue growth issues.
So I dont see that as materially changed even though there are lot of people focused on inventories right now.
And Im pleased that our results in North America were strong as they were in the context of that.
In the distributed trade this balance issue is a real topic that you have to stay on top of.
As you know we had our own issues in China on fine Writing probably two years ago.
And we lived through that transition and rebalancing in that timeframe.
And they're always individual distributor issues that you have to wrestle with.
We do not see a macro issue that cuts across geographies.
There is always individual issues you have to be dealing with specific distributors.
We have had some challenges with our distributor base in Russia.
Not related to inventory positions but with related to their ability to accessing enough roubles to buy our dollar-denominated Baby gear.
But again that's not inventor related thats currency related.
So John on Simadi? So Bill if we look for example to Simadi.
So if you assume we transact and translated Simadi for example on today made that switch that that cost to us on EPS basis would probably be about $0.05 give or take.
The big question for us would be whether the government would even let us transact at Simadi because obviously the impact in the marketplace for schools supplies goes up dramatically in terms of the pricing.
But right now with the partial year behind us is probably about $0.05.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Yeah.
And your next question will come from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Two questions here first off heading into this year it seemed as though there was some optimism on the consumer coming back and from what we've seen it doesn't appear that that's happened.
So organic core sales growth seems be a little bit better? Can you talk about how much you're seeing maybe the underlying consumer come through versus where you feel like you're executing? How much of that improvement you're seeing is self-generated versus macro? And then if we look at the medical cart business if we excluded in both -- if we included it in both periods the core sales growth was a little bit lower but there was a big year-over-year decline there on that medical cart business? Is that the type of decline you were expecting or should we see that moderate if we try to map that out over the balance of the year? Thanks.
Thanks John.
I would have expected to have seen more consumer momentum in the U.S.
than we have to-date.
I would have thought that the reduction in energy prices reduction in gasoline prices would have driven change in trajectory purchasing behavior.
We obviously see positive trends in attitude through the consumer confidence data in the U.S.
But has that translated to or converted to a difference in actual behavior.
I dont see it yet.
So our -- but I am optimistic that overtime that should come into play.
We have not assumed in our guidance a macro recovery in the U.S.
beyond the conditions we are leaving with today.
So if that would occur that would be a positive and we would have to think about the implications for our business and how we manage things.
What I have said from the time I have joined is that I think that the -- that ideas trump the macros that we are in control of our own debt whether its a choice to deploy our portfolio into a new market or whether its the opportunity connected to building our share position in these categories.
We also have though the obligation as the leaders in most of our categories if not all maybe one exception.
We have the responsibility to actually lead category development not just drive share shifting.
And so our ideas are designed to expand the size of the pie for us and for our retail partner.
And I think we are increasingly doing that well and in some cases doing that better than others and in some cases better than I would have expected us to be able to do at this point in the transformation.
So I am encouraged by what we are seeing.
I would say John our balance is largely our progress is largely driven by actions we are taking as apposed to some macro tailwinds.
So thats one part of the question.
The other question was on the medical carts business.
This business declined probably about -- just about 12% in 2014 and we saw further decline in the first quarter with more amplified.
This is a spiky business.
This isnt a business where you get continuous replenishment.
And if you got an order that -- a new order that comes in and it sort of a -- it's a lumpy profile for revenue flow.
And so we were up against the very strong quarter in the first quarter but then the trends in the business have been with us for a while.
And I think I guess thats all I would say because we are in a midst of a sale process John at this point.
Okay.
So but just to clarify it it sounds like we should expect excluding that to benefit core sales over the balance of the year but probably not as much as we saw in the first quarter? Definitely not as much as the first quarter but you should expect that the core sales will be -- will benefit by a bit.
It's not a big business.
So its not a big business.
So its not -- as I disclosed it was $65 million last year but we should see some benefit.
Okay.
Thank you.
Well now take our next question from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just digging into on the Baby side I'm not sure I fully understood in the first quarter I think you talked about North America being up high single digits.
Is that including or excluding the recall from last year and I guess its including kind of -- can you maybe help us understand how it accelerates from here.
I mean in terms of what do we see that really gets it off of where you won't have the benefit from recall for the next two three quarters? Yeah.
So let me take North America and then Ill pass to John to talk to you about what's going on in Russia in Europe on the Baby business because thats sort of the down elevator were facing into at the moment.
But we're pleased with both the POS growth in North America and the net sales growth in North America on Baby.
We expect that growth rate to accelerate through the balance of the year.
Weve got a stronger innovation platform and we have -- we obviously had pretty easy comps in Q1.
Well have easy comps at probably April May as well because if you remember the recall timeframe it was really for mid-March through mid-May that we were really on our heels.
And so were going to have some pretty each comps in Baby for that period of time.
And we see that -- you may not see that but we see that in our POS daily year-over-year very strong stronger than the growth rate that we communicated which is selling based.
And so we think that things are setting up for a very good year in North America on Baby.
Were being quite aggressive to defend our flank on the low cost side of the portfolio but we've got tremendous pipeline of innovation.
And we are spending money on the brand through television advertising and were getting great partnering with our key customers.
So I'm quite optimistic about what Baby will be able to do in North America.
In Japan weve turned the corner and we have a good pipeline of innovation and weve lapped the -- if you remember the consumption tax issue in Q1 of 14.
Weve lapped that tax increase which created our official spike in the first quarter of 14 that we have now passed.
And so we have again easier comps but more importantly a stronger program in Japan for the balance of the year than we did last year at this time.
We can we can see that all sort of unfolding.
Europe is more challenging and let me just -- and there is two pieces to Europe.
There is sort of the underlying issues in Western Europe but then there is some challenges in Russia.
So John? So Bill Russia as Mike said really did with the decline of the Rouble and the challenges our distributors have in terms of paying us for our goods which are sold in dollars.
Its been unfortunately a drag on the overall segment.
So it shouldnt sour your interest on the overall recovery of the Baby business because as Mike said North America is doing extremely well.
The balance of Europe has been soft for us as well.
Weve got a little bit -- we got the last piece of our exits thats flowing through as well in the quarter of our planned exits.
And then some overall softness but we do have new products that should be hitting in Q2.
That should give us hopefully a slight bounce back and then help mitigate the further challenges that we expect to see in Russia over the balance of the year.
Got it.
And John while I have you just on the housekeeping on the tax rate as we look forward is there a catch-up in any specific quarter that gets you down to 24% or it should just be slightly below that level for the next three quarters? Yeah.
Right now I would assume its just going to be relatively flat to get us back to 24.
We still have bits and pieces that move in and out but nothing necessarily line of sight to overall.
I'd also remind you on the net income mix by quarter Q1 serves our smallest quarter in absolute terms.
So you are getting a mix effect on tax rate that will happen as the topline and bottom line in absolute terms grows to 2Q 3Q 4.
Thanks.
Thats helpful.
We will now take our next question from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Hey Chris.
Good morning.
So Mike obviously you guys have increasing advertising pretty substantially.
Sales are reacting in different places and I think you started to get into this at the last Analyst Day but I was wondering if you can I guess kind of step back and explain what you're seeing on the sustainability of POS following periods where you do advertising.
In other words how sticky is the business? Have you been able to raise the base of business with the advertising which has been kind of episodic by business? So is it another way of getting at the returns on that investment question but if you can explain some of that would be really helpful? This is the big question also Chris.
[Audio Gap] because and we are just beginning to be able to lapse periods where we spent real money.
And encouragingly in Writing in particular we're seeing year-on-year growth.
I won't quote POS data but just look at the revenue data.
So 9% net sales growth or core sales growth in Q1 of 15 up against 7.9% core sales growth in Q1 of 14.
So you are beginning to get growth on growth and we're seeing really strong POS growth in Writing in the U.S.
and so that encourages us to continue to spend.
However the one thing I would say is that Richard and his team Richard Martin and the team Maria are looking at this really really closely because we have to decide how much money layer in there and whether the next dollars spend is wise to be spend in our home markets or whether we ought to be using that money to support the point the more aggressive deployment of our portfolio into wide space geographies.
And so this question is really quite pivotal and we are asking it across every one of our businesses.
Its a little early for us to declare whether we got the balance right or not.
Encouragingly we have very very strong POS in the business and we are spending in Q1 and we are spending significantly more in Q2 than we did in the year ago period and we'll start to get that REIT.
But it is one of the big questions we have to reconcile for ourselves which is how do you balance where to deploy the money.
And then we have questions that we are asking ourselves across categories.
So are we getting the same kind of growth yield for a dollar invested in commercial or dollar invested behind innovation and Tools or dollar invested in Internet advertising on goodie? So the return on the growth yield not the return.
I dont want a confusion.
We are not looking at the financial return.
The growth yield for these dollars is something we are looking at very very closely.
The challenge weve gotten in our business relative to others that I have worked in is we dont have as broad a set of syndicated data to be able to marry GRPs right-up to sell out data.
But we are building some close proxies for that and we will learn more through the year.
Thats helpful.
And I guess this is a follow-up.
I mean if you unpack where the growth is coming from because obviously those Win Bigger businesses are doing really well.
If I told you a year and a half ago you will be putting up these kinds of growth rates and growth on growth in Win Bigger would you have thought that core would've been pacing even better than it is today? In other words other than -- the other businesses maybe lagging little more than you thought and I guess if you could explore a little it would be great? So what it supported us the ability to do is to pull back harder on the throttle on the portions of the portfolio we are going to have to come to grips with some other way over time.
So there's no way I thought we would have been enable to pullback on Consumer Storage as aggressively as we did last year.
And we've done it again this year as we pivot that injection molding capacity to food storage.
Its the same injection molding process just different molds.
So we are able to shift the capacity within our manufacturing network to the more value accretive portions of the portfolio where we can create differentiation.
I know if I look back I never would've thought we would have been able to pull back as hard as we have.
I also wouldnt have thought that we would have been able to pull back as hard as we have on the less attractive portions of our European business.
And so there are two things that weve done that have constrained core sales growth today I think are really important strategically for the future and set up perhaps the potential to grow even faster than we originally envisioned on a long-term basis that we have been able to do as a result of the Win Bigger businesses being more responsive to both the new capabilities that weve deployed and the investments we put in the business.
Thanks.
Thats helpful.
Appreciate it.
And we will take our next question from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Hi Lauren.
Thanks.
Hi good morning.
I wanted to talk a little bit about I guess two things.
One was a follow-up on baby I think there was a comment about adjusting some price points at the low end in the U.S.
I was hoping you could just further follow up on that.
And then secondly was on the Tools business.
Just curious your view on kind of market growth in the U.S.
and where the soft spots were like was Asia -- was China significantly worse or kind of keeping pace with what we've seen and any kind of slowdown you've seen in Latin America there? Thanks.
Hey Lauren its John.
So with respect to baby as we talked about before we see some competitive pressure with some of our guys vertically integrating within the space right now and that obviously put something constraints overall on our core.
Thankfully with our brand with a good supply partner we are able to defend that core.
And as Mike mentioned before we will fight to preserve that volume at some of our key retailers and thats our plan and thats in our long-term interest.
With respect to Tools so right now our Tools business does seem to get a nice tie to industrial output certainly on the band saw business.
So we are getting some benefit in North America right now as industrial production seems to be still going fairly well even though consumer confidence may not be up with respect to Asia.
So we are definitely seeing a slowing in China and a little bit in Japan on our band saw business which overall was a little bit of a drag on the Tools business.
And then we are still doing well in Latin America but certainly starting to see signs of that slowing a little bit.
But of course we are expanding our offerings in Brazil.
So we definitely have that benefit but Latin America we are starting to see a little bit of the signs of weakness but maybe not as much as some of our competitors there.
So do you think that for this year Tools ends up among the Win Bigger businesses being at the lower end of the growth rate range macro-related? Yes.
No I dont think its macro-related.
I think we are lapping some initiatives from prior year in the first quarter of the launch of the Brazil restage of the business.
You had all that pipeline that we had to lap.
But second tranches of the Brazil new items we lapped in the first quarter.
But I think Tools is going to be a mid-single-digit type of grower this year maybe a little stronger.
We are taking the portfolio from Brazil and we are in the midst of deploying it into the Philippines.
There are other opportunities across Southeast Asia to do the same.
So I am more optimistic on Tools to be honest with you.
But I dont think its -- our issue is not macro-related.
So I dont think.
Our issue is really -- we are not macro-dependent right now.
Its more with the exception of industrial product as John said.
This is more about what we are doing versus what we did year ago and the timing with which we are going to do things we got in the plan for '15 but I do think Tools is the mid-single digits grower for us.
Okay.
great.
Thank you.
We will now go to Wendy Nicholson with Citi.
Hi good morning.
Just a follow-up first on the Writing business.
I think last year when you put up such strong organic growth in Writing some of it came from distribution expansion.
But I didn't hear you call that out today in terms of contributing to the 9% growth.
So do you feel like at least in North America kind of you're distributed where you need or are there still pockets of opportunity? And then second sort of as a follow-up also on Writing.
Can you tell us roughly how that's split between North America and Latin America if you did I apologize I missed it? Yes.
So let me -- I can have Nancy follow up with you on the split of the Writing growth rate.
Okay.
But I dont have it at my fingertips.
Both businesses we grew Writing strongly in both North America and Latin America and we grew our Writing in Asia as well.
So weve had a good run on Writing in Europe.
We had a choppier first quarter but in broad terms we had strong growth.
More pricing driven growth in Latin America more volume driven growth in North America and market share driven growth in North America.
Your question is a great question.
And if I had Joe Cavaliere who is our head of customer development in the room with me right now and he was sitting across the table Id we winking at him.
I think we still have the ton of opportunity left in our home markets to get our brands more broadly distributed with the right assortment in the right channels.
And I think in fact I think there is more commercial innovation opportunity on our Writing business at the moment than anything else.
And so weve made very good progress.
We see what we call total distribution point TDPs up and we see our share of TDPs up in the U.S.
but I still believe we are nowhere near where we could be.
With respect to depth of availability and having the right assortment in different channels were not yet maximizing the revenue per linear inch of the store shelf.
So we have a ton of opportunity to get that right.
Its not easy work its collaborative work.
Its work thats needs to be validated through analytics in partnership with the customer to demonstrate why resetting shelving to the perfect assortment creates value for them and conversely for us.
And so it sort of painstaking work.
Weve made good progress but we have a lot more opportunity to get what we described as the perfect store in place with perfect assortment.
And its true in the U.S.
its true in Canada certainly true in Europe and U.K.
and France and in parts of Mexico within our mass channels.
So there's a lot of opportunity still in front of us.
Were making good progress that are mean to be too negative about it for our own people but we got more more we can do.
Terrific.
I had a second unrelated question which is the $150 million of incremental cost savings.
Yeah.
Sounds like that's SG&amp;A and you said overhead-related.
But how much of that is related to either stranded overhead for some of the brands that you're selling or incremental synergy opportunities for the brands that you've bought? And how much of it if you can tease it out is just kind of the core business? I mean it surprises me that you've done so much restructuring.
I mean Newell did even before you got there.
And it's amazing that you kind of keep peeling back the layers of the onion and finding more opportunity? Yeah.
Hey Wendy its John.
The vast majority of it is basically the core underlying business.
Theres not a whole lot thats left from the stranded dispositions.
And your recognition is fair.
Although I think the previous projects have been more focused on manufacturing distribution footprint and so forth.
Actually weve taken a hard enough look ever at the SG&amp;A structure on the overheads piece.
And certainly a lot of our peers are starting to do that.
So we recognize that we still have plenty of opportunity overall.
Our overhead ratios are just below 20 right now.
So good benchmark that against anybody in our industry and you'll see that thats quite high.
The exception might be a couple of the Tools and Commercial Products industry players.
So we have a lot of opportunity.
We have to do this in a disciplined way Wendy and part of this is a legacy of having operated in a disaggregated structure.
We are disciplined because we have to change the way we work to enable the cost to come out.
We do a lot of the macro structural work already.
But now we need to get into the way we transact our business in order to release these overheads.
And then we got to high real estate footprint cost.
Weve got lots of -- weve got pretty much every line item that you can look down you could challenge.
And so one of the reason were so happy that John was interested in doing this as he's proven through the European experience how to go about doing this.
And he is the perfect player that kind of lead this charge on behalf of the company given his experience to date.
And were going to get this sorted.
This is one of the things that will give us the degrees of freedom within the P&amp;L to make some of the choices that Dara was challenging us on earlier.
Terrific.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello with Raymond James.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi Joe.
Not to harp too much on Baby but I just did want to go back and see where the first quarter came in relative to your expectations number one? Number two do you think it could accelerate fast enough to get into that 3.5% to 4.5% range for the full year? Yes.
Okay.
And in terms of expectation was it in line or...? Its a listen hard for the team to listen.
I am sure.
Hopefully -- they tell me what they think.
But I hope we can get to solid single-digit growth on Baby globally despite the headwinds in Russia despite the challenges that will persist in Europe through the balance of the year.
I would not get too optimistic about what we are going to be able to do in Europe but weve got a great setup planned in North America and in Asia.
And then weve had all the conversations we need to have about strengthening Europe as we move out of 15 into 16.
We got a better innovation plan coming back.
In fact there were meetings in London this week with our two biggest customers in Europe that went very very well designed to setup 16 for success.
So -- but 15 will be muted growth maybe a slight decline in Europe that well cover through progress in North America and Asia.
Got it.
Okay.
I was just trying to put the 80 basis points into some context there? Yes.
And then secondly in terms of the acquisitions it looked like you are looking for a bigger contribution from than you were previously.
Maybe an update on where those stand Contigo bubba and Baby Jogger obviously.
Are you seeing more growth opportunities or distribution expansion opportunities from them? We couldnt -- we couldnt be happier with these acquisitions.
They are just beautiful brands.
And we've got great people that we brought into the business with the brands.
And so we couldn't be happier Baby Jogger -- again we are talking 2016 innovation of Baby Jogger now and weve got some really interesting things that we are going to be doing then.
Contigo and bubba awesome brands with huge distribution opportunities not still in the U.S.
and the world to play for with these brands.
Again the constraining factor on these will be our P&amp;L capacity to be able to place all these bets.
But were really pleased with these categories.
And they are quite importantly all growth accretive and with new investment that we are going to be able to put behind them we would expect that to be able to sustain if not accelerate the growth momentum in these businesses and we are right where we hoped we would be with them at this point in time.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Want to ask you about gross margin.
I know there's lots of puts and takes there.
But you obviously had a strong start to the year.
Commodities do get better as the year progresses.
And I know with the baby commentary there's probably a little bit of a mix drag as the year progresses.
But can you continue to accelerate gross margin from here to continue fueling even more incremental spending? Well we were pleased with the start on gross margin.
It was actually a little bit better than we anticipated it being.
Part of that was mix related.
But a lot of it had to do with how aggressively we dealt with our transaction Forex issues and some progress that we are making on supply chain.
The first part -- the first half of project renewal the $200 million that we had reported previously authorized us to spend is very much focused on gross margin.
In fact most of its in gross margin a small piece of it is in overhead.
And so we should -- if input costs continue to fall and slow at this level and we are able to capture the benefit of the strategic pricing work we are doing through our new go-to market programs we should be able to deliver in 16 and 17 gross margin progression quite nice gross margin progression.
15 will be challenged by the mix effect of baby recovery and home solutions recovery.
Again remind you our acquisitions are dilutive with gross margin.
And so the growth there will work against us although we are making great progress within each of those acquisitions on gross margin improvements.
So 15 will not be as impressive a year in terms of gross margin delivery for all the reasons including the transaction Forex pressure we have.
But as we -- assuming things hold together from a currency perspective and that we deliver the first $200 million of savings in the third phase of renewal which are almost all gross margin related we should be able to see some nice movement forward on gross margin in '16 and '17.
Got it.
Appreciate that.
And then in terms of the U.S.
and sort of capturing a little bit of a lift from lower gas prices lower commodity prices why do you think youre not seeing more of a lift particularly in the U.S.? I think the industry is not single lift.
Im making that judgment based on the retail comps Im seeing not based on our movement were seeing good momentum.
Im just-- Im reluctant to describe any of that to the macros based on the retail comps I am hearing.
There is some exceptions to that.
The home centers retailers are doing quite well.
But if I look at the mass channel I dont see this massive shift that I would have expected from Q3 to Q4 or to Q1 yet.
And we dont see it in the GDP growth either.
So I think -- Im reluctant to call upside in the macros.
That said doesnt seem to be impacting our ability to drive a sequential improvement in our growth rates.
Fair enough.
Thanks Mike.
Yes.
The next question comes from Jason Gere with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Good morning.
I got to be honest.
I think every question and topic has been exhausted.
So the only thing I guess I will ask is if you could talk maybe a little about the cash flow for the year just cash flow from operations how we should see that kind of playing out? Obviously the first quarter was a use of cash.
So just wondering if you could kind of talk about the priorities how you're thinking about the next 12 months? Sure Jason.
So we anticipated using we always use cash in the first quarter so nothing new there.
And you saw we -- it was a good opportunity for us to put money into our U.S.
pension plan a wise investment for us.
So once we back that our we are almost flat year-over-year on cash in Q1.
We will consume cash as well in Q2 and then eventually turn positive in the back half overall.
So typical for our business overall.
That said net-net we should land cash were not going to guide to it but fairly consistent with where we have in the past.
But we do know that we have a lot of opportunity still on working capital.
So thats one of the things that in addition to some of the other projects Mikes tasked me with that we need to tackle this year is to improve our working capital position.
And were starting to sketch out the framework for doing that in a comprehensive yet collaboratively way with all the stakeholders including our suppliers.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the new cost savings the update there is there any change to that five year target on cash flow from operations you guys laid out at one of the of past analyst meetings? I think it was like $4 billion.
I know obviously acquisitions have kind of stepped up a little bit earlier than anticipated but I was just wondering if there was any update to the longer-term cash flow outlook.
We havent updated that since gosh I think probably back-to-school.
I think highlighting at the CAGNY.
Its a good challenge.
We should update that -- we will update that for the next big conference that is Deutsche Bank.
So we will make sure we provide an update that reflects all the M&amp;A that weve done both in and the outs and -- I dont think it will a make materially huge difference in the overall framework.
Our capital allocation strategy is going to remain the same.
We will hold our dividend payout ratio in the 30% to 35% range.
Were trying to take it towards the high end of that so that were competitive with the fast moving consumer goods guys.
Were obviously buying back our stock because we think were undervalued.
We continue to believe were undervalued given agenda that were deploying and the results were beginning to put up and the fact that they are competitive with some of the best that are out there.
And then obviously we have an appetite to continue to strengthen each of our five pillars through bolt-on M&amp;A and we will continue to do that.
We have lots of opportunity there.
So weve got -- we should set that up a little bit more clearly than we have in the last couple of big conferences that weve done and we will take that on.
Sounds get.
Thanks guys.
And your next question comes from Steph Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi.
Just a really quick question from us on the A&amp;P increased spend can you talk a little about the strategies? And are you testing new strategies that you're finding are working better than your expectations? And then Mike if you could just talk about how widespread those A&amp;P increases are across the globe or is it concentrated by region? Good question Steph.
So were comfortable putting the money in because were validating what we're spending behind in advance of putting money behind it.
So every piece of advertising that airs that we invest behind goes through a battery of tests.
And weve had very very strong advertising testing results.
And we use the same methodology that all the sort of the academy consumer goods companies would use same supplier same methodology.
And we test our advertising against all industry at.
So we know how they are performing versus the best.
And theyve done extremely well in pre-testing before we take them to market.
So we have quantitatively validated the ads were spending behind.
Thats the first threshold before well put any money behind the piece of advertising.
The second is driven by portfolio strategy and the where-to-play choices were making in the business.
And Writing has gotten a disproportionate amounts of investment relative to the rest of the portfolio because of its Win Bigger status and because it is proving to be very very responsive to the investment.
We are increasingly broadening the geographic footprint to that investment.
We started that in 2014.
We will increase the amount of that money that's being deployed into markets like Mexico Columbia Brazil U.K.
France Italy and our footprint geographic footprint will continue to broaden within the Writing portfolio.
On Tools weve seen good responsiveness when we spend behind advertising thats new product focused.
When we do anthem whats called anthematic advertising just on the big brands we don't see responsiveness.
So we pull the money off of the anthematic campaigns on Tools and put it behind new items both in the U.S.
and in Brazil where the biggest investments have been made up until now.
We will evaluate whether to continue to broaden that advertising.
But again it will has to be measured against the upside potential of deploying the money against the Writing opportunity.
We're spending more heavily than we ever have before on baby to reignite growth and we will continue to do that.
That advertising is largely new item focused and it seems to be really yielding a good sell-through impact.
So were going to continue to play that story out.
And at the end of 15 well evaluate how much more we should be deploying behind that brand.
The Graco brand in particular is one of our strongest brands from an equity standpoint.
So there's great resonance when we spend money behind it and were seeing when Graco advertising that is new item focused is coupled with great merchandising we get this synergistic effect on sell-through.
So were going to continue to play that out.
We just begin advertising Calphalon in the fourth quarter of 2014 and were in the midst of evaluating that that looked to have been a positive experience for us.
And then we have opportunities in many other places that well have to govern to the deployment of the money against having -- until weve fulfilled all the opportunities on our higher priority brands.
So thats a logic behind which were making choices.
I think over the next few years you should expect us to be able to tell you that an increasingly higher proportion of our total media spend is outside of North America.
Great.
Appreciate the response.
Best of luck guys.
Thank you.
And your final question comes from Rupesh Parikh with Oppenheimer.
Good morning Rupesh.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So I just wanted to touch on I guess go a little further into your core sales growth.
So clearly you mentioned in your press release a number of times benefits from the strong innovation.
Is there any way to quantify how much more -- maybe how much more growth you're seeing right now from new innovation maybe versus last year? We dont quote that number externally but its considerably stronger.
The number that we talk about is the innovation rate in the business and were pressing towards an ambition that to compete with the best in our industry which typically is measured by this metric some people call it by tally rate.
Other people call it innovation rates.
What were looking to try to get our innovation rate to having about 30% of our revenue touched by -- or generated by innovations launched in the last three years that sort of the goal standards that most consumer goods company would point to.
And were getting close.
By 16 well be there.
We are getting close.
We are not quite there yet.
But were certainly way stronger than we were a year ago.
And that will continue to progress as ideas come through the funnel.
Okay.
Thank you.
Im sorry.
This does conclude our question-and-answer session.
Id like to turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for closing remarks.
Well thank you.
I think its probably us talking to ourselves because I dont know if there is anybody left on the line.
But I wanted to thank everybody for what were a great set of questions.
Were very proud of the start to the year weve had.
We think it provides good evidence of the progress were making as a company.
And were excited to be able to continue to play forward for the upside in the business.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
A replay of todays call will be available later today on our website newellrubbermaid.com.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Newell Rubbermaids Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After a brief discussion by management we will open up the call for questions.
As a reminder todays conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of the call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations homepage under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy ODonnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
ODonnell you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I want to welcome you to Newell Rubbermaids second quarter earnings call.
Before we begin our comments today include forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on assumptions and estimates which could be materially different from actuall results.
Please take note of Newells cautionary statements regarding forward looking statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent SEC filings.
Newell undertakes no obligation to uptake any forward looking statement.
Also please note that we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
We have provided in our press release and 8-K filing reconciliations of non-GAAP numbers to comparable GAAP financial measures.
Our call today will be lead by our President and Chief Executive Officer Mike Polk; and John Stipancich our Chief Financial Officer.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mike.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Building on a very good first quarter set of results weve reported another strong performance in the second quarter against our toughest competitor from last year.
As a result this morning we announced that we have increased our core sales and normalized EPS guidance for the full year.
So lets get into our second quarter performance.
In Q2 core sales grew 5.1% and net sales grew 3.9%.
Acquisitions and plan divestures contributed 480 basis points to net sales growth which was more than offset by a 600 basis point negative impact due to foreign currency.
Normalized gross margin increased 10 basis points to 40% driven by productivity and pricing partially offset by negative impact of foreign currency and the mix effect from acquisitions which carry amortization charges.
This improvement when coupled with 140 basis point reduction in overheads funded 150 basis point increase in advertising and promotion with advertising spending up over 70% versus prior year.
Normalized EPS was $0.64 $0.02 ahead of consensus and 8.5% ahead prior year.
We achieved this EPS growth despite investing $0.07 in incremental advertising and promotion and having to overcome an $0.11 negative impact from foreign currency.
Our second quarter core sales growth was broadbased with growth in all five segments and in all four regions.
Combined our win bigger businesses grew core sales 6.5%.
Writing core sales grew 10.8% driven by strengthened innovation increased marketing support and pricing.
These results were achieved despite having to comp a year ago period when the U.S.
back-to-school selling skewed earlier than it did this year.
Commercial products grew core sales 1.6% successfully lapping nearly 10% growth in the prior year period with good underlying sell out trends in the U.S.
and Europe as a result of strong innovation and excellent sales execution.
Tools grew core sales 1.3% successfully lapping nearly 13% growth in the prior year period associated with last years expansion of our Brazilian business.
We delivered strong results in Europe and Asia-Pacific and solid performance in the U.S.
U.S.
tool sell out in Q2 was very strong and were pleased with the momentum we are building in the business into the second half of the year.
Importantly Baby core sales grew 6% in Q2 with very strong Japan and UK results complementing solid U.S.
performance to more than offset Western Europe and Russia weakness.
Home solutions grew core sales 1.2% with continued double-digit Rubbermaid food storage growth offsetting planned declines on our lower margin Rubbermaid consumer storage business.
In Q2 our recently acquired Contigo Bubba and Baby Jogger brands delivered outstanding results growing double-digits compared to last year which was prior to your ownership.
As you know we do not include acquisition growth in core sales until their first anniversary with the company.
Have we included this growth our new brands would have contributed an incremental 30 basis points to our core sales growth in Q2.
Our first half results are strong as well.
Core sales grew 4.9% with all five segments in all four regions contributing.
Our Win Bigger businesses lapped top comparators to grow core sales 6.9% with standout growth on writings of over 10%.
We have returned our baby business to growth delivering 3.4% growth in the first half.
We have had very good contribution from acquisitions which when combined with our strong core growth has offset the negative impact of currency to yield 4% net sales growth.
Despite unprecedented currency pressure on our cost due to the strong U.S.
dollar we have expanded normalized gross margins 30 basis points and we have increased advertising and promotion investment by 100 basis points while simultaneously increasing normalized operating margin 40 basis points as a result of making Newell leaner and more efficient through Project Renewal all of this yielding 7.5% normalized EPS growth and very strong double-digit normalized EPS growth in a currency neutral basis.
We are obviously very pleased with the first six months of the year.
We built momentum in our business and view our results as further evidence of the progress we are making transforming Newel into a differentiated highly competitive performer in our industry.
Let me hand the call over to John to go through our results in more detail and then Ill return to provide perspective on the balance of 2015.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
Second quarter reported net sales were $1.56 billion a 3.9% increase versus last year.
Core sales which exclude acquisitions planned disposals and foreign currency increased 5.1%.
The net impact of acquisitions and disposals contributed 480 basis points to reported net sales.
Foreign currency had a negative impact of 600 basis points as Mike mentioned all five of our segments delivered core sales growth in the quarter with writing and baby leading the pack.
You may recall we're comping against last years second quarter that benefited from a pull forward of about $15 million of sell-in orders for last years back-to-school season which results in about 100 basis points drag on core sales growth this quarter.
On the other hand Venezuelas contribution of core growth this quarter is seasonally the highest of the year so netting these two offsetting factors so adjusting for the pull forward and excluding Venezuela our underlying core sales growth in the quarter was about 4.2%.
Reported gross margin was 39.8% an increase of 20 basis points from prior year.
Normalized gross margin was 40% up 10 basis points over last year.
Our improvement was driven by productivity resin deflation pricing and favorable mix which more than offset unfavorable currency sourced labor inflation and the negative mix impacts from the gross margin structure of our recent acquisitions.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $374.9 million or 24% of sales which as a percentage of sales were flat to last year.
A 140 basis point reduction of overhead fueled 150 basis point increase in advertising and promotion investments with all five segments benefiting from year-over-year increases in A&amp;P spend.
Notable investments included advertising support for Paper Mate InkJoy pens Irwin Vice-Grip hand tools and the Graco Nautilus 3-in-1 car seat and we run numerous campaigns of Rubbermaid commercial to support our core business and new product launches.
Normalized operating margin was 16% flat to last year reflecting the benefit of Project Renewal and other cost savings initiatives offset by increased investment in A&amp;P and significant FX headwinds.
Reported operating margin was 13.8% compared with 14.2% in the prior year.
Interest expense of $18.1 million increased $3.1 million year-over-year reflecting the impact of our late 2014 debt refinancing and higher overall borrowings related to our acquisitions in the back half of last year.
Our normalized tax rate was 24.5% compared with 27.2% a year ago due to the geographic mix of earnings.
We still expect our full year normalized 2015 tax rate to be around 24%.
Normalized EPS which excludes restructuring and other project costs was $0.64 an 8.5% increase to last year despite about $0.07 of incremental A&amp;P investment and $0.11 of FX headwinds.
On a reported basis second quarter EPS was $0.55 compared with $0.54 last year.
And now Ill move on to our segment results and starting with Writing reported second quarter net sales increased 1.3% to $496 million.
Core sales increased 10.8% led by strong volume growth EMEA and Latin America as well as pricing.
In North America back to school selling droved solid growth as we comp against the timing related benefit in last years second quarter.
Writings core sales growth for the first half was 10.1%.
Q2 normalized operating margin in the Writing segment was 26.8% 40 basis point decrease over the prior year as the benefit of increased sales and productivity was more than offset by negative foreign currency impacts and increased advertising and promotion spend.
Net sales in our Home Solutions segment grew 14.4% to $438.5 million with acquisitions contributing $55.4 million.
Core sales increased 1.2% due to the continued positive momentum in Rubbermaid food and beverage.
This more than offset our continued exit of portion of the lower margin consumer storage business and a comparison against last years Calphalon pipeline fill at a major new customer.
The first half of the year the segment grew core sales by 1.1%.
Home solutions normalized operating margin was 15.9% up 320 basis points reflecting the accretive impacts of acquisitions recent deflation and productivity.
Our tool segment delivered net sales of $205.2 million a 7.7% decrease driven by FX.
Core sales grew 1.3% as we comp against double digit core growth in the prior year.
Core growth in North America EMEA and APAC was partially offset by a modest decline in Latin America where we had significant pipeline till last year related to our expanded product offerings in Brazil.
Core growth for the first half of 15 was 2.2% normalized operating margin in the tool segment was 11.4% a 210 basis point decline driven by increased advertising and promotion and negative FX.
Reported net sales in our commercial product segment decreased 5.8% to $210.6 million.
Core sales which exclude the Rubbermaid medical business increased 1.6% driven by pricing and volume growth despite about a 10% core sales growth comp in the prior year.
The core growth for the first half of the year was 5% commercial products and normalized operating margin was 13.8% a 240 basis point decline due to higher advertising and promotion spend and negative FX.
Our baby segment reported $210.7 million in net sales up 14.7% increase compared to last year.
The Baby Jogger acquisition contributed $26.7 million in sales during the quarter.
Core sales grew 6% in the quarter reflecting good growth in North America and double digit growth in APAC fueled by new product launches and increased advertising and promotion.
Core growth for the first half was 3.4% Babys normalized operating margin was 8% an increase of 110 basis points to last year despite a significant increased investment and advertising and promotion thanks in part to the Baby Jogger acquisition.
Looking now Q2 core sales by geography North America core sales grew 1.4% lead by Baby and writing despite the 150 basis point impact from the back-to-school early sell on last year.
In EMEA core sales grew 6.5% due to strong growth in writing tools and commercial products partially offset by continued weakness in Baby.
In Latin America core sales grew 40.2% reflecting good underlying core growth in writing and commercial products and pricing.
Partially offset by slowing economy in Brazil as well as comping our large new product launch in Brazil last year.
Note our core sales growth in the first half for the region was 33.5% but that rate will tapper off in the back half of this year as volume growth in Venezuela will tamper and as we see increasing softness in Brazil.
This will be more produced in the third quarter as we lapped the SAP pull four from Q4 to Q3 last year.
And finally Asia Pacific core sales increased 5.9% fueled by the strong double-digit growth in Baby Japan as that business has now returned to grow Moving on to cash in our balance sheet.
In Q2 we generated $102.5 million in operating cash compared with $96.2 million in the prior year.
The increase reflects improved payables partially offset by higher inventories.
We return $101.6 million to shareholders in Q2 including $51.2 million in dividends and $50.4 million to repurchase $1.3 million of our shares.
As of the end of Q2 we have $312 million available under our authorized open market repurchase plan.
And finally our balance sheet metric continue to be strong giving us flexibility to support project renewal and for further acquisition should we chose to pursue them.
Now with that Ill turn the call back over to Mike.
Thanks John.
Lets now turn to the balance of 2015.
This morning we increased our 2015 full year guidance to 4% to 5% core sales growth and $2.14 to $2.20 normalized EPS which represents 7% to 10% growth compared to prior year.
Our best estimate for delivery is at the mid-points of each component of this new full year guidance.
We are increasing guidance despite our expectation that for the full year negative foreign currency impact will now be $0.36 to $0.39 slight worse than previously communicated as a result of the further weakening of currencies particularly in Brazil and Canada.
Weve take broad based actions to deal with the currency impact and are making good progress covering the exposure.
The expansion of project renewal has helped and we will need to take further pricing to cover the full impact.
Despite the unprecedented ForEx challenge our conviction to steadily increase brand support remained strong given the core growth acceleration and market share increases we are experiencing.
In 2015 our guidance assumes we increase A&amp;P investment by nearly 20% and end the year with A&amp;Pas a percentage of sales around 5%.
Our strategic objective is to increaseA&amp;Pinvestment to about 7 percentage points of sales over the next few years.
We are unweavering in this ambition because we believe it is key to enabling both the deployment of our portfolio to new wide space geographies while also investing per share growth in our home markets.
We expect to achieve both growth goals plus simultaneously delivering highly competitive earnings results and margin development.
In 2015 on a currency neutral basis the $2.17 mid-point of the new normalized EPS guidance range represents very strong double-digit EPS growth of over 25% versus prior year given our current assumptions on currency.
If circumstances develop that give us flexibilities to deliver beyond the mid-point of the full-year normalized EPS guidance range we would likely prioritize investing back into the business to accelerate early 2016 results if we could do so productively rather than further strengthen already highly competitive earnings growth in 2015.
Our 2015 full year guidance assumes that we sustain mid single digit core growth on our Win Bigger businesses with tools acceleration in the second half and writing deceleration in Q4 as we rebalance retailer inventories in advance of the potential consolidation in the U.S.
office superstore channel.
Our guidance also assumes the Baby sustains mid single digit growth for the balance of the year and then strong growth on Rubbermaid food storage offsets planned declines on the lower margin Rubbermaid consumer storage business resulting in low single digit Home Solutions growth for the full year.
We expect to offset the negative impact transaction Forex with positive pricing in productivity and that we continue to reduce overheads which when coupled with growth enables us to increase advertising and promotion support.
There are two factors that could influence where we fall in our full-year guidance ranges.
The first factor is the planned positive momentum shift on our Baby business we expect Baby to deliver solid single digit core growth for the full-year we are well staged to achieve this outcome in North America and Japan behind strong innovation great customer partnering in increased marketing support.
We will continue to invest significant marketing support behind Baby innovation in 2015 in order to reignite growth while accepting the related operating margin contraction.
Second factor that could influence the full-year outcome is foreign exchange and in particular the impact of Venezuela on our overall results.
Our guidance assumes we overcome the $0.36 to $0.39 of negative foreign currency impact to deliver EPS growth in the range of 7% to 10%.
We are on track to achieve this outcome despite the slight worsening of the Forex outlook since our last earnings call.
We assume the major currencies hold at current market rates and in Venezuela we continue to transact and translate at the SICAD rate given that our last option was at the SICAD rate given that we expect to access another SICAD in the next few months and given that we expect to remix dividends at the SICAD rate.
Last months SICAD option for the transformation industry set the SICAD rate at 12.8 bolivars per U.S.
dollar we have to reflect that this devaluation from 12 bolivars per dollar to 12.8 bolivars per dollar in our revised guidance.
Importantly we are executing well in Venezuela and in the seasonally high Q2 back-to-school period our growth was about evenly split between volume and price.
We expect Venezuela to contribute roughly 90 basis points so the total company full year core growth rate in 2015 20 basis points above the 2014 rate of contribution.
As previously shared we are on track towards the mid-point of our revised full year core growth guidance range of 4.5% our expected full-year core sales growth contribution from Venezuela of 90 basis points implies that we are tracking towards 3.6% core sales growth excluding Venezuela.
We believe either mid-point is highly competitive given we have observed the negative impact of our European exits and the planned contraction of the Rubbermaid consumer storage business in core sales.
So let me close now by saying we had a very good first half of the year delivering strong competitive results growth continues to accelerate and despite unprecedented foreign currency pressure we are delivering very strong normalized EPS growth.
We have increased our 2015 full year guidance to reflect the building momentum in the business and are tracking towards our long-term guidance of consistent 4% core sales growth and 10% normalized EPS growth as we enter the accelerations stage of the growth game plan in 2016.
Our building momentum is a function of the short choices weve made.
We are investing to create advantage in brand development and innovation capabilities and are backing them up with category leading marketing investment.
We have tested nearly 750 new product concepts over the last 5 quarters and our concept test results are consistently well a head our research suppliers industry benchmarks.
As a result our innovation funneled value as nearly doubled since 2013 with value per project up over 150%.
The projects in the funnel has been steadily moving from concept to product leveraging strength and execution within our R&amp;D and the new product design capability we have invested to cerate in our purpose built design center in Kalamazoo Michigan.
These new ideas for growth and the near doubling of our advertising and promotion investment happen and enabled by our determination to make no linear and more efficient and to unlock the craft capacity for growth for project Newell.
Coupled with the actions we have take it to strengthen our portfolio these choices are yielding accelerate growth and margin expansion also beginning to scale the company.
We are on about to completely transform Newell delivering a highly competitive differentiated story about category leading growth in margin development.
Thats the growth gain plan into action and thats the Newell Rubbermaid.
Let me now pass the line to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We will go first to Chris Ferrara of Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Chris.
Good morning.
I hate to lead with the Venezuelan question but it was such contributor to this quarter so let me get out of the way.
So I guess first half if you guys had to move - I guess what triggered move to [indiscernible] for you guys and if you did have to move to samadhi for 2016.
How does that affect you view of getting to that acceleration phase and those delivering 4% plus core sales growth even without the contribution from Venezuelan that you even seeing.
Chris let me answer to the second part of your question and then I will pass the samadhi question over to John.
But you know the things that I - the reason we are unpacking the growth so that you have more visibility into Venezuela contribution is to set up some visibility to the underline performance in the company.
So John talked about Q2 if you adjusted for the writing timing and excluded Venezuela from our core sales growth numbers you would have 4.2% core sales growth in the quarter which is good indication of the underline performance in the company.
I gave you another data point which is we expect on the full year Venezuela contribute 90 basis points which against the mid point revised guidance range is equipped with 3.6% core growth on the full year.
I think thats 20 basis a head year ago so if you adjusted last years numbers you can see the sequential improvement in our growth rates underlining expend as well.
So I think we are right on track to getting to 4% 4 plus percent a core growth next year underline so excluding Venezuela just I think thats within our reach now especially with the strengthening innovation funnel that I referenced in continuing work on cost which is enabling us to invest at higher A&amp;P rates back into the business.
So I think we are right on track to the acceleration phase with or without Venezuela in the numbers for 2016.
Yes Chris with respect to samadhi we are still very comfortable based up on our ability to access the SICAD options and the information that we have coming up for the next round of auctions.
As you know there was a auction last month in the grow transportation industry that out SICAD 12 way which cost us to revalue and move from 12 to 12 8.
So we are still comfortable that SICAD is the right number for us but we are obviously watching closely.
If we did and have to move to sumari in Q3 the impact on us would probably be about $0.2 before any mitigating action on 2015 so we would scramble and try to cover it obliviously if that when the case but you know thats gets for us right now is certainly SICAD is the near-term future.
There is a key sort of event in SICAD later this year with the parliamentary elections and I think things stay in the current space that were in certainly through that moment in time and then well see what happens after that.
Look the facts and circumstances for every company are different we accessed SICAD in 2014 we havent needed because went long were able to access enough dollars to go long on raw materials and weve been able to price within the law to manage the margin impact of all that.
We expect access another SICAD auction shortly and well see how much how many dollars we can access and how long position we can take but right now the circumstances for us are such that we feel very comfortable and the advice were being given would suggest that we continue to translate and transacted SICAD.
Got it.
I guess a couple quick follow-ups John when you said $0.02 is that would be for the back half the year if you had to move there for Q3? Correct.
Okay and just on different notes what is the outlook for commodities? Last quarter is a commodities were going to be I guess flat for the year and then just on the China writing launch that supposed to come up in the middle of 2016 can you is or any sort of data or analysis or color you can give us on what you are thinking in terms of share of potential incremental sales contribution from that early on? Thanks.
Yes.
So on commodities as you know weve seen the benefits certainly present pricing; John referenced that in his comments.
I think if I looked at inflation in total across all elements that influence our cost of goods inflation this year is going to be pretty much flat year-over-year which is the first time weve seen that in a long time.
Benefiting from resin deflation but we continue to see labor rate increases in some other raw material increases.
They net against each other to effectively hot inflation flat.
In that it certainly is contributing to our ability to move gross margin up given the pricing and productivity activities weve been executing.
We did see resin - from the middle of Q2 through the most recent period we have seen a little bit of a bump in resin prices and we dont know how that will play out through the balance of the year pretty every industry outlook says those prices holds at that level at that higher levels for the balance of the year but its really going to be dependent on the supply and input cost relationship with oil now drifting back down you would think that would put down work pressure on resin prices.
However there are supply chain constraints in some of the components that go into resin manufacturing and there are supply constraints on the facilities themselves that is causing pricing to hold up a little bit more strongly than we would normally expect.
And so its unclear how thats going to breakdown for the balance of the year our assumptions are that the current rates holds for the balance of the year and we actually see some inflation in resin going into 2016.
China launch Bill and Mark and Chirsty were in Shanghai this week with a team working through route to market assumptions we havent Chirsh we havent kind of put any data out there yet I need to speak with them when they get back over the next couple of weeks to talk about how broadly we think we can go and what timing we think we can launch is it first half or is it early second half and some of the route for market assumptions are really in our ability to skill those who really drive whether its first half or second half.
We havent decided yet weve got the brand weve got the product we got the packaging we know where we would source the product from which is within our own network.
So were lined out on the hard stuff we need to make sure we like the route for market assumptions weve built in and I need to understand the breath of cities that the team is going to recommend to go within until we resolve just exactly how broadly well go.
I cant really quote what type of share and revenue impact we would expect.
But over the next couple of months maybe by the end of Q3 well start to talk about that little bit more openly.
Got it.
Thank you.
Yup.
Our next question comes from Joe Altobello of Raymond James.
First on baby.
Obviously this was a nice on.
Quarter after the first quarter.
Margins also were up nicely this quarter.
When do you guys expect to get baby operating margin back in double digits? Is that something that is 2017 or 2018? Yes hi Joe it is John.
With respect to Baby right now obviously were pleased to trend that business back to growth after the difficult year last year and I think as you heard there are two things that are going to challenge the margin on it little bit one is were going to continue to advertise and promote the business right now because we are seeing a nice return on that in terms of the top line and the second piece we are getting to get some compression on as well as some pricing actions that we have to do to continue to defend the core in the North American market right now.
So were going to do that is going to be the first priority for us overall over the next year or so.
But eventually we will return to focusing more on the margin but for the short term it is more about making sure the business is continuing to grow we protect obviously the price point levels that we are taking the pricing actions on.
Yes one of our competitive battles Joe is with the Chinese company that has made some in roads into Wal-Mart on Baby a company called Goodbaby and they are the owners of the Chinese company owns Evenflo they also own a brand called [indiscernible] here and they also have a brand called [Erbenee] which is at Wal-Mart I think it maybe exclusive to Wal-Mart Im not sure about that actually I think it may now be broader than simply Wal-Mart and so we are fighting that fight we are going to defend the core as John said and we are doing that constructively and we are going to layer in the right innovations to Wal-Mart to the other retailers that currently are leaning into the relationship with Goodbaby.
We view them as our core competitor in the U.S.
and we believe we can now innovate them and were going to play for the market share we are going to protect and grow our market share in the U.S.
point-of-sale growth in the U.S.
is strong despite the competitiveness of the marketplace and high single digit type of growth which is great the 4Ever Car Seat will become available to all customers in the third quarter which will be really terrific addition to our retailers portfolios and I think this is one of the exciting things about the categories and the competitiveness of it with the other exciting things about the category for us is the high return on net assets that this category generates or we create a lot of value so Im moving to take the margin squeezed in order to sustain the growth because it does in the end create a ton of value given the very high return on net assets.
Got it.
Thank you.
Then in terms of advertising obviously you guys have been investing heavily so far this year.
Are you happy with the auto line that you are seeing an incremental investment and why is 7% the right number in terms of a to us? Thanks.
Yes I think 7% may seem like a random number that we plan our business categories country sell.
We look out over the horizon the strategic plan horizon to do that in the 7% is really an outcome based on the initiatives we believe we need to fund over the next 3 years to 5 years.
We think we've reached the 7% A&amp;P ratio hopefully by 2018 full year maybe 2019.
It will take us that long to get the A&amp;P ratios up.
In part because we need to be disciplined in how we deploy the portfolio into whitespace geographies.
What we are not going to do is compromise our investment in our home markets for the sake of the point portfolio around the world.
There is one big consumer goods Company's that made that mistake a few years back and it is still costing them and we are not going to make that mistake.
We will govern the rate which we deploy based on our ability to preserve our investment in our home markets because we're so much opportunity consolidate market share home.
7% is an outcome.
It's a function of our country/category sell planning and we believe that puts us in a very competitive position relative to our peer group of industry peers and that will likely result in A&amp;P ratios that are near double-digit on riding and A&amp;P ratios of businesses like tools and commercial products that are in the 3% to 5% range and that will all blend down to that 7% number that we talked about externally.
Got it okay thanks guys.
We will next Olivia Tong of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks good morning.
Hi Olivia.
Hi how are you.
Good how are you.
Good thank you.
Just first on the organic revenue growth outlook you've had a great first half and as we think about the second half it doesn't sound like from your prepared remarks that you expect any major slowdowns in Q4 you obviously have the benefit of some of the acquisitions folded into the quarter.
If the first half is at the high end of your physical guidance range perhaps can you provide a bit of flavor for other factors we should be thinking about for the second half to complete his results back from that current run rate? Sure.
Good question.
We made the assumption in Q4 and I have built it into the script so that people are aware that we will decelerate on writing in Q4 relative to the run rate we've had up until now.
That is the deliberate choice we are making to plan that business for success going into 16 in the context of what we think will be the office superstore channel consolidation pending the regulatory approval of that transaction.
You shouldn't expect writing to decelerate in Q4.
That will be partially offset by tools acceleration in the back half of the year.
But the other thing you should expect is that home solutions sustains its low single digits and the net effect of that I believe will be something below the 4.5% the 4.5% midpoint range to do something right in the middle.
It's really tough to be precise.
we invoice probably around $20 million a day.
You know 10 basis points of court basis points on the full year is probably one third of the date of invoicing.
You have to be in direct understand the sensitivity around that number.
I don't want to give you guidance that is falsely precise but if you think we will end up roughly around the midpoint of that range given the writing deceleration we've planned in Q4.
The other thing to understand is that Venezuela slowdown in the second half of the year.
We have just come through that back to school window sell in window which was executed really well by the team second half and the easy will ramp down quite substantially.
And we don't know in this upcoming auction that we hopefully access over the next few weeks to months we are not sure how many dollars will be available so it is unclear how much inventory we will be able to bring in connected to that auction and how hard we will be able to push our Venezuelan business without that clarity.
These are all the variables that contribute to the outcome we've called.
Got it thats very helpful.
On advertising can help give us a sense of order magnitude or spend across the visions and the reason I ask you as I look like the margins in tools and commercial products and you call that higher A&amp;P spending in both of those and I know those have greater FX pressure but just wondering if what the levels of spend there were relative to other divisions and if its higher than other areas when using that can start materializing sales uplift I know the comp were difficult but just kind of try to understand those dynamics.
Yes so one of the things that is maybe a little bit different about this company because we are smaller and than some of the big folks that you follow is that we manage our resources very dynamically and the money flows to where the ideas are in the business.
The top team really allocates the A&amp;P around initiatives and so we dont focus too much on segment margins when it comes to the A&amp;P impact in them.
We focus on gross margins within the segments and we focus on the direct cost in over heads in those segments but if we got big initiative that we are launching in the segment we will take or a competitive issue we have got we will accept the margin contraction for the investment and in the subsequent quarter well dynamically move resources around.
And thats certainly what weve done over the last number of years and I expect we will continue to do that.
On balance the economics are working up really quite well.
The 150 basis point increase given flat normalized operating margins in the growth acceleration tells me the algorithms working.
Were spending the moment behind the Vise-Grips innovations within tools and the continued success of innovations within commercial products; we expect tools to accelerate the top line and the back half of the year.
In our first half growth on commercial products is around 5% which if you - in any given quarter youll have timing related issues that you have to kind of lapse I think commercial products would probably in the year right about word is in at the mid-point.
And so I think the primary answer I would give you is about how we manage resourcing which is small group of people in the center deciding where the A&amp;Pought to be allocated segment presidents are part of that discussion and its my leadership team that really are making those decisions.
And on balance were looking to deliver an outcome at the corporate level.
Great.
Thank you Mike.
Sure.
Well go next to Jason Gere with KeyBanc.
Okay.
Good morning.
Hi Jason.
Two questions the first one if you could talk a little bit about Brazil? We've heard some of the more industrial Company's talking about the slowdown in the impact there are given that some of your businesses as consumers they are there is a little bit of a twinge of industrial in them.
I guess maybe if you could talk a little bit about the macro and how you see that building out versus the micro and how much more distribution opportunities do you still see for your categories in that market.
I guess a little bit of context around Brazil there.
Hey Jason.
Its John.
In Brazil right now we are definitely seeing little bit of softness in Brazils mostly for us tools business in commercial products business overall a little bit hard because we did have such as big push in the tools business last year with our product launch as we expanded the offerings in Brazil and we are getting ready to introduce the second wave of that coming up right now.
So Brazil still presents a great opportunity for us but certainly the economics are as compelling as they were before hand.
Okay great.
That provides great color.
Just a second question I guess really on I guess within the last week Camelback was acquired that's a competitor to Contigo and Bubba and I was just wondering if that's an area where you guys see a lot of growth opportunities and I'm just wondering about the role that maybe Camelback with their buyer out there that provides them I think more opportunity to some of the sports channels.
That was an area that think you guys were talking about with Contigo and Bubba as well or can you maybe provide a little bit of context about the growth opportunity that you see with a stronger other player out there as well.
Does that help the category? Do you anticipate more competitive pressures? Just a little bit of context around that news.
Thanks.
Thanks Jason.
Yes.
Were really aware of that news and we know the brand very very well we admire this brand its been built and this morning the channel and its an excellent competitor.
Vista outdoor that bought the business obviously has tremendous channel synergies in the space theyve got a big sporting goods business they do ammunition they do some other things that also gives them synergies in the military channel which is a big chunk of Camelbacks business.
So this is a company that we need to watch in the space.
And its a brand that has very good prospects.
So I think this will be one of the interesting competitive battles to watch over the coming years.
That said we are $6 billion Company we can deploy resources in a way that can flood any individual country category our product family sell like this one and so I think well have way more resourcing to deploy against this opportunity than anybody else in this space and you should expect us to do that.
This is the fastest durable water bottle and category is the fastest growing general merchandise category in the United States across all of the categories that we track we look at everything from types to refuse to obviously durable water bottles and its the fastest growing category.
So its an exciting space there is plenty of room for competition we are growing very very strongly strong double-digit growth in the comp basis and that is extremely encouraging we believe we have a ton of opportunity still to fill out the distribution and the Ignite team there is no better innovation capability in the industry than the team weve got that we bought effectively in Chicago.
So we are excited about the prospects.
We welcome the competition and we have a lot of information for Camelback as a competitor.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you and thank you for taking the questions.
Sure.
We will go next to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Thanks good morning.
Could you talk a little bit about working capital? Inventory was up a bunch.
It looks like and you covered it with payables and receivables so things were a little choppy.
If you could talk about those dynamics that those would be great.
Thanks.
Hey Lauren the working capital for us inventory right now so you have to be a little bit cautious because we have the inventory coming in from acquisitions it is a big piece of it and as Mike mentioned we had a lot of inventory where we went long in Venezuela that added as well and then you add the timing shift that we have in writing so those are all some of the pieces of the inventory.
That being said we have some fairly aggressive plans to get inventory out in the back half and as you know working capital is becoming a much higher area of focus for us right now as the balance of the business really starts to come online and perform very well.
So you should see us if we are doing our jobs taking inventory back out in the back half overall and gradually doing a much better job in terms of managing the inventory piece.
One comment on payables Lauren if you benchmark our payables days relative to some of the biggest players in the consumer goods industry and some of our near end peers our payables days are really not as long as they should be and so well I dont view the progress on payables as opportunistic I view it as strategic as we look to manage working capital and so that is - you should expect us to continue to push those days out over time to the degree it makes economic sense to do that.
Okay.
Great because my follow-up to that was just going to be if you had any update to cash flow targets.
I think we are waiting for updates of five-year target.
I was curious if you had any thoughts on that yet? Actually we are sitting down to review the financial model this afternoon.
The five-year forward-looking 2016 through 2020 financial model this afternoon we're going to look at that.
There is a conference coming up in about a month and maybe we will unveil it there.
But we have no comment right now.
We just have to take it forward through this; we got our Board meeting coming up in a couple of weeks and were going to walk them through the forward-looking view given the momentum that is building the business and then we will be prepared to talk about that.
Great and then it is a great conference I have heard so I look forward to it.
I look forward to that too.
Thank you.
We will go next to Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Hi Mike good morning.
Hi Bill.
Hey what was the U.S.
growth excluding the pipeline still in writing for the quarter and I dont know does that that $50 million come back in the third quarter? Right now if you looked at North American growth numbers I believe they were 1.4 is that right reported core? I think it's about 150.
The impact of the writing timing issue is about 150 basis points on North American results.
So the underlying North American - 100? 100 okay.
It's around 2.5% sort of in line with GDP growth in North America.
I was talking about writings specifically.
For writing 150.
So another 150 bps on writing for North America.
Okay.
That is helpful.
And then does that $50 million pipeline does that come back in the third quarter? It reverses but - it does - we get the benefit of writing in the first part of Q3 certainly we are going to have stronger back-to-school performance this year than we did last year so we will get back and then some and but you got to remember that the SAP pull forward in Venezuela and Mexico from last year at the end of Q3 was a blend of writing and tools business.
So some of that backs out as a result of having lapped that spike and then in Q4 you get a writing benefit at the beginning of Q4 related to the flip on SAP but then were going to pullback hard on retailer inventories towards the end of the year on writing in advance of the likely although pending regulatory approval Superstore consolidation.
So thats the inside-baseball view on writing pacing.
Okay.
That's great.
You guys in the last - do you think you're taking market share in tools and commercial? I know it's hard to find the data [indiscernible] I can't find it anywhere.
If you look at the market share data you have to be real - in both categories you have to be really careful not to use it because the coverage is not like what you would experience in other places.
What we do to kind of get a sense for how were doing is we have point-of-sales sell out data that we get transactional data that we get from most of our retailers and we can cover probably 60% of the tools universe in the U.S.
and that gives us an indication of how our business is progressing which is the number I quoted to you high-single digits nearly double-digit tools for example sell out in the second quarter and then we have to benchmark that against what other people report because we dont have category transaction data from that POS from our retailers typically.
So I look at what Stanley Black &amp; Decker reports or what some of the others report to get a sense as to whether our share is moving in the right direction or not.
We believe that our market share in Latin America is growing in tools based on that type of analysis growing in tools; we believe our market share in Europe is growing in tools.
We believe our market share in North America is holding at the moment as we pivot our focus to strategic partnership with Lowes.
Okay.
Great.
How about on the commercial side and then I will let you go.
Thanks.
Commercial its really sketchy.
We end up getting sell out data from our distributors and we can benchmark these sell out data relative to sell out data in prior year periods.
We also get some home center transaction data through our POS database.
We think 5% growth in commercial products which is largely in North American numbers they share build number in North America.
So the headline response would be tools holding in North America growing in the rest of the world.
Commercial products growing in North America and we really dont have a big business outside of North America.
We have those two pilots going on in Brazil and in China where we are definitely growing share but they are small and in Europe the composition of our European commercial products business is really different there its more of a washroom solutions business than what you will see everywhere else in the world so I dont think its a good proxy for our overall progress.
But the numbers are essentially holding in Europe.
Great.
Perfect.
Thanks so much.
Thanks.
Well go next to Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Thanks good morning.
Hi Bill.
Just to follow-up and I might have missed this on Venezuela can you break out what Venezuela will be in terms of core growth for the full year and maybe what it was last year? Right now Bill I think for us full year we are looking at about 90 basis points of contribution as a company for Venezuela overall for the full-year and that's about 20 basis points ahead of prior year.
That is right now basically our best guess in terms of where Venezuela lands.
And just as Im looking at your kind of raise of full-year guidance by 50 basis points was that largely Venezuela changes or it was just core strength? No its core underlying strength the Baby recovery was sharper than we thought it would be and our prospects for Baby are stronger in the back half of the year but the Rubbermaid food storage is extremely strong right now perhaps a little bit stronger than we anticipated it being.
And underlying writing momentum is quite good so remember that because of the timing related issues on writing were really under representing the core sales growth there and a part of that is Venezuela but very very good underlying momentum sell out growth just as a data point Bill sell out growth on writing in the first part of the year and this would exclude the commercial products portion of the writing market because we cant track that as easily but sell out growth is measured through POS the POS data we get from our retailers was double-digit in the second quarter.
And so thats really encouraging and thats above what we expected it to be.
So were coming into the big consumption window now and time will tell whether that sustains or not; we anticipated its sustaining because weve got higher display levels in Back-to-School we did year ago we got better innovation we were spending a very high level of advertising on writing as a percentage of sales in the third quarter.
So all of those things should conspire to give us a very good sell out experience and that if we continue to sell out at rates above our prior expectations then I think we could get beyond the mid-point of that core sales guidance range weve said we expect to be in the middle.
But if sells out works at Back-to-School we may be able to get beyond that.
So but I dont think Venezuela will contribute more in the back half of the year because I think access to dollars will be less than they were a year-ago same timeframe.
And therefore we wont access as much raw materials and we wont have the freedom to push volume into the market at [her] [ph] pricing in the way we did in the prior year window.
So I think Venezuelas contribution I dont expect it to get beyond 90 basis points and it may actually slip a little bit depending on what happens with the next auction.
Got it.
Maybe just to tie into that if I look at the kind of the excitement of back-to-school of 3070% innovation market share gains and 30% just it's a better Back-to-School season is that the best way to look at it? The biggest driver is news in advertising.
But in terms of the consumer involvement with the brand.
But sell out is driven by the effectiveness of our sales execution and number of displays we have the amount of phasings we have at retail the placement on shelf of that inventory whether its right at the end of the isle near the and its the first impression a consumer has walking down the isle.
So there is a lot of executional things that have to work get back to in that six seven eight week back-to-school period its unbelievably enhanced our ability to get those displays are enhanced by the fact that we are really in the industry.
The only one that spending at this level which is why we are driving disproportionate sell-out performance.
So the advertising support we have on there is really significantly ahead of the competitive set and its the combination of all those activities that drive the sell out performance.
I hesitate to put a percentage on anyone component they all work sort of synergistically to drive the outcome.
Now well see well see how it plays out Im very encouraged I know the displays are going to be up I know the quality of the displays are better.
Last year we tried to do displays that were multi-brand displays this year weve gone to dedicated brand displays on Sharpie and on Expo and then Paper Mate.
So I expect we will get more placement as a result of having done that.
Then we have got widely successful new launch on this Mr.
Sketch as we launch washable scented markers which will make moms decades worth of moms.
We will be pleased and wonder why its taking us so long.
But these things are doing really well in the period prior to back-to-school.
Weve got washable Mr.
Sketch; weve got two-in-one Paper Mate choice with the stylus on one end and a pen on the other.
Weve got new colors on Sharpie were launching Sharpie Extreme weve got new colors on Expo weve got InkJoy Minis.
Weve got a chock-full innovation funnel.
But in the end its the synergistic effect of all that advertising and great sales execution and were very well positioned on all those fronts.
So well see and as you remember we got to have a good replenishment ordering at the back half of the quarter in order to have all the numbers hold together.
So thats the cycle at back-to-school and were very pleased with how its set up at this point.
Perfect.
Ill debrief my wife on the Mr.
Sketch news.
Exactly.
Well go next to Stephanie Wissink of Piper Jaffray.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Just a caution for you Mike on the 4% topline growth can you characterize that for us the respective price versus units particularly with respect to price is some of the game you are seeing like for like or your point innovation driven are you seeing the customer actually trading up into a higher price point range within your core brand.
Thank you.
Steph its a very good question.
Our pricing is largely happening where we have transaction Forex issues.
We did for the first time this year take price and writing in North America first time in five years.
And that seems to be holding the real value though that I think over time will play out in price probably wont show up as a if we were to do price volume analysis this wouldnt show up in price but drop in volume.
But as we innovate I talked about the 750 concepts factored to moving from concept of product the fact that our innovation funnel values doubled the fact that project size is up by 150 basis points.
Every one of those projects has a gross margin thats accretive almost every one of those projects has a gross margin thats accretive to its core line.
Thats one of the filters that we apply in the gate keeping process.
The reason their gross margin accretive is because the concepts have more value and therefore they can carry a higher price and so that wont show up in our price volume metrics.
That will show up as volume as we innovate in that space price really only reflects pricing related to either invoice price increases or reductions in gross to net spending.
So that type of premiumization will show up in vol mix and not in price.
We expect over time to get more price realization if you want to call it that through innovation.
And thats part of the logic behind the criteria we place on gate moves through the innovation funnel.
We also expect to get more strategic fewer pricing on these businesses.
As we become more disciplined and being able to account for the cost to serve our customers and charging for that cost to serve.
We started that in 2015 by establishing bracket pricing in the U.S.
establishing three to four different tiers of customers based on order quantity and size of a customer relationship and that will continue to be refined over time as we get better understanding the cost to serve tier-by-tier.
And our spending and pricing will be proportionate to size of those customers and the efficiency of dealing with those customers.
As it needs by within the rule set by Robbins and patent.
But we can capture more value through strategic pricing as a result of having a clear understanding of our cost to serve customer-by-customer.
And we plan on doing that.
Thank you very helpful.
Best of luck in the back half.
Thank you.
Your last question comes from Rupesh Parikh of Oppenheimer.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to touch on home solutions segment profitability.
Maybe you could talk about some of the dynamics driving the increase in the margins there and whether you expect these kinds of margins gains to sustain themselves for the remainder of the year? Hi Rupesh.
The biggest benefit that we have at home solutions right now and we've talked about it for a couple of quarters is the continued momentum on the food and beverage business for us which is the Tibetan section margin accretive so we mix up in that business is doing very well.
We continue to deprioritized the consumer bulk storage business which has a much lower margin profile.
As you may have heard my talk about before we're converting more and more of our production capacity to support that food and about the growth overall so that gives up definitely to benefit overall.
Resin deflation has helped us a little bit this year as well as Mike mentioned we're seeing a little bit of potential uptick in resin pricing going into next year overall that if we can continue to continue to push on our food and have is this as well as acquisitions which you know we talk about our acquisitions above and can TCO.
Gross margin accretive to the Company but to the segment their gross margin accretive purpose of bringing those business into the segment has helped as we'll in terms of the overall profitability of the business.
You will see us continue to make some progress against subject to resin cost inputs which will be kind of a major factor in that business.
Great.
I resin prices if you look at that segment have you fully see the benefits at lower resin prices or should we still see favorability forward? As we see we sit here and hope that with the lower input cost we would see that flow through in resin with the lower energy costs over to the bigger dynamics in the constraint might talked about earlier was the resin capacity right now as well as the market for some of the other components that you used to conferred the feedstocks into resin pixel right now we watch this very closely overall and you know it looks like it's going to be a little bit of pressure going into next year.
Hopefully we will be happily surprised and it will go down the other way but right now it would not be counting on resin deflation being a good guy for us next year.
Okay thank you for all the color.
Thank you.
End of Q&amp;A This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will not turn the call back over to Mr.
Polk for closing remarks.
Thanks very much Elisa.
Thank you to all of you on the call for your interest in the company and most importantly I would like to thank all the Newell people who work tirelessly to make these results happen.
Look forward to reconnecting at our next opportunity talk to you soon.
Bye.
A replay of todays call will be available later today on our website newellrubbermaid.com.
This concludes our conference for today.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Newell Rubbermaid third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After a brief discussion by management we will open up the call for questions.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations home page under Events &amp; Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Great.
Thanks Laurie.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Newell's third quarter 2015 conference call.
On the call today in addition to myself are Mike Polk President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Stipancich our Chief Financial Officer.
Let me remind you that on today's call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please note that Newell has provided reconciliations to these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
Our comments today also include forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on assumptions and actual results could differ materially from management's expectations.
We direct you to the cautionary statement in the 8-K that we filed with our earnings release and on our website.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike.
Go ahead.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Building on very good first half results we delivered another strong performance in the third quarter.
In that context we've reaffirmed our 2015 full year normalized EPS guidance and raised our core sales growth guidance.
Before we get into the results let me briefly address two strategic changes to our portfolio.
First as we've announced we will divest our Dcor business.
And consistent with our practice on businesses held for sale that do not qualify for discontinued operations we will exclude Dcor from core sales from the beginning of Q3 2015 through the completion of the sales process.
I want to acknowledge our Dcor associates for their many contributions to Newell and also thank them in advance for their continued focus through the process.
Second last week we completed the acquisition of Elmer's Products Incorporated.
We're delighted to welcome the Elmer's team and Elmer's three leading brands Elmer's Krazy Glue and X-ACTO to our company.
These brands provide terrific drive period synergies at back-to-school great cross-sell potential across our channels and together with our Prismacolor Rotring Paper Mate Flair and Mr.
Sketch brands strengthened our position in crafts.
Consistent with our practice on acquired businesses Elmer's sales will not contribute to core sales until the first anniversary of the completion of the acquisition.
So let's get into our third quarter performance.
In Q3 core sales grew 5.9%; the strongest quarterly core sales growth in years.
Net sales grew 3.1% with acquisitions and planned and completed divestitures contributing 340 basis points to growth offset by a 620-basis point negative impact due to foreign currency.
Normalized gross margin increased 30 basis points to 39.5% driven by productivity pricing and mix partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency.
We sustained high levels of investment in advertising and promotion at 5.2% of sales.
And we delivered strong normalized operating margin of 15.2% a 90-basis point increase compared to prior year.
Normalized EPS was $0.62 $0.01 ahead of consensus and 6.9% ahead of prior year despite having to overcome a $0.14 negative impact from foreign currency.
Our third quarter core sales growth was broad-based with growth in all five segments and all four regions.
Combined our Win Bigger businesses grew core sales 8.8% with standout growth in our Writing &amp; Creative Expression and Food &amp; Beverage businesses.
Our Writing segment grew core sales 11% Commercial Products 3.7% Tools 3.1% Home Solutions 0.8% and Baby 8.1%.
Our nine month results are really strong as well.
Core sales increased 5.2% with growth in all five regions and all four  all four regions and all five segments.
Our Win Bigger businesses grew 8.7% with strong double digit growth in our Writing &amp; Creative Expression and Food &amp; Beverage businesses.
We've returned our Baby business to growth delivering 5% growth over the first nine months.
And our acquisitions when combined with our core growth have offset the negative impact of currency and divestitures to yield 3.7% net sales growth year-to-date.
Despite unprecedented currency pressure on our cost we've expanded normalized gross margins 30 basis points to 39.5%.
And importantly year-to-date we've increased advertising and promotion investment by over 17%.
Despite spending more behind our brands we simultaneously increased normalized operating margins 60 basis points enabled by the work we're doing to make Newell leaner and more efficient through Project Renewal all this together yielding 7.3% normalized EPS growth despite having to absorb a negative $0.33 impact of foreign currency.
We are obviously very pleased with the first nine months of 2015.
We have clear momentum in our business and view our results as evidence of the progress we are making transforming Newell into a leading performer in our industry.
Let me hand the call over to John to go through our results in more detail.
And then I'll return to provide perspective on the balance of 2015 and our initial outlook for 2016.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
Third quarter reported net sales were $1.53 billion a 3.1% increase versus last year.
Core sales which exclude acquisitions divestitures foreign currency and the planned disposal of our Dcor business increased 5.9%.
The net impact of acquisitions divestitures and Dcor contributed 340 basis points to reported net sales.
Foreign currency had a negative impact of 620 basis points.
All five of our segments and all four of our regions delivered core sales growth with Writing and Baby leading the pack.
Strong volume growth and pricing in Venezuela contributed 150 basis points to our Q3 core sales a decline from last quarter's contribution.
And we expect the contribution to further decline in Q4.
We now anticipate the full year contribution from Venezuela will be around 130 basis points of core sales growth.
Reported gross margin was 39.1% up 30 basis points to last year.
Normalized gross margin was 39.5% also up 30 basis points over last year.
This improvement was driven by productivity lower input costs pricing and favorable business mix which more than offset unfavorable currency and the negative mix impact from the gross margin structure of our 2014 acquisitions.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $372 million or 24.3% of sales down 60 basis points versus prior year.
And we reduced overhead by 20 basis points versus prior year.
We continued to invest in advertising and promotions spending 5.2% of sales in the third quarter.
Our year-to-date A&amp;P investment is up 60 basis points at about 4.7% of sales and we still anticipate spending at around 5% of sales for the full year.
We increased advertising and promotion investment dollars in Writing and Baby where we launched marketing campaign to support Paper Mate InkJoy Sharpie Extreme and Sharpie Clear View Mr.
Sketch Graco Pack 'n Play the Graco 4Ever Car Seat in North America and Aprica's Hero Innovation in Japan.
Normalized operating margin was 15.2% up 90 basis points reflecting the benefit of Project Renewal gross margin expansion and other cost savings initiatives partially offset by significant FX headwinds.
Reported operating margin was 12.2% compared with 11.7% in the prior year.
Interest expense of $17.5 million increased $3.2 million year-over-year reflecting the impact of our late 2014 debt refinancing and higher overall borrowings related to our acquisitions in the back half of last year.
Our normalized tax rate was 20% compared with 19.5% a year ago.
We still expect our full year normalized 2015 tax rate to increase versus last year but now land under 24%.
Normalized EPS which excludes restructuring and other project costs and other items was $0.62 a 6.9% increase to last year despite about $0.14 of FX headwinds.
On a reported basis third quarter EPS was $0.50 compared with $0.44 last year.
I'll now move on to our segment results and starting with Writing reported third quarter net sales grew 1.4% to $459.5 million.
Core sales increased 11% with strong mid-single digit growth in North America and low single digit growth in EMEA driven by strengthened innovation core distribution gains strong Back-to-School marketing and merchandising and pricing.
These results were achieved despite having a comp of strong Back-to-School a year ago period of over 8% growth.
We continue to drive impressive POS in the U.S.
thanks to the combined impact of increased A&amp;P and more robust merchandising efforts.
Our emerging markets Writing business in Latin America continues to perform well with pricing and strong sell-out fueling great results.
Q3 normalized operating margin in our Writing segment was 25.3% a 120-basis point increase over the prior year due to strong productivity pricing favorable mix and cost management which more than offset foreign currency impacts.
Net sales in our Home Solutions segment grew 10.2% to $459.4 million with acquisitions contributing $47.7 million.
Core sales increased 80 basis points due to the sustained high single digit growth in Food &amp; Beverage which includes one month of Contigo sales having now lapped the 2014 acquisition.
This more than offset our continued exit of portions of the low margin Consumer Storage business as well as a reduced amount of retailer promotions in the quarter.
Home Solutions normalized operating margin was 16.7% up 140 basis points reflecting the favorable mix productivity and lower input costs.
Our Tools segment delivered net sales of $196.7 million an 8.4% decrease all of which and then some was driven by FX.
Core sales grew 3.1% with all four geographies delivering growth.
Our Irwin Construction Tools &amp; Accessories business continues to perform well with our Irwin Brazil business recovering in mid-single digit growth though our Lenox Industrial Tools business is showing signs of being impacted by the global slowdown of heavy manufacturing.
Normalized operating margin in the Tools segment was 10.4% a 50-basis point decline versus last year driven mostly by negative FX partially offset by pricing and productivity.
Reported net sales in our Commercial Products segment decreased 5.1% to $206.8 million reflecting the sale of our medical carts business in August.
Core sales increased 3.7% lapping over 11% growth on the third quarter of last year reflecting strong distributor growth pricing and solid growth in North America and EMEA.
Both regions showed good underlying sell-out trends enabled by strong innovation and sales execution.
Commercial Products normalized operating margin was 15.2% a 260-basis point increase to last year due to pricing productivity and input cost benefits partially offset by negative FX.
And our Baby segment reported $207.6 million in net sales a 14.4% increase compared to last year.
The Baby Jogger acquisition contributed $19.6 million in net sales during the quarter.
Core sales grew 8.1% with mid-single-digit growth in North America and double-digit growth in Asia as well as good growth in the emerging markets portion of our EMEA business despite continued weakness in Russia.
We continue to experience very good POS growth fueled by new innovative products like our Graco 4Ever car seat and increased advertising and promotion in both the U.S.
and Japan.
Baby's normalized operating margin was 4.9% down 90 basis points to last year largely due to increased advertising and promotion spend and pricing actions on the value end of our product line at a key U.S.
retailer to defend our core as well as negative FX partially offset by mix.
Now if we look at Q3 core sales by geography North America grew core sales 3.4%.
We had strong results from Writing Baby and our Food &amp; Beverage business with all five of our segments contributing to growth.
In EMEA core sales grew 4.7% due to strong growth in Tools and Commercial Products as well as Baby's return to growth in the region.
In Latin America core sales grew 26.5% reflecting volume gains in Writing and pricing across the region to cover FX.
And finally Asia-Pacific core sales grew 8.2% with dramatic improvement in our Baby business and strong growth in Writing.
Moving on to cash and our balance sheet in Q3 we generated $339.9 million in operating cash compared with $339.2 million in the prior year.
Year to date we've generated $288.1 million compared with $343.3 million last year but recall we made a $70 million voluntary contribution to our U.S.
pension plan earlier this year.
Adjusting for this our year-to-date operating cash flow is up about 4.3% compared to last year.
We returned $93.3 million to shareholders in the quarter including $51 million in dividends and $42.3 million to repurchase a little over 1 million of our shares.
And as of the end of Q3 we have $270 million available under our authorized open market repurchase plan.
And finally our balance sheet remains healthy with $266 million of cash on hand and about $588 million in liquidity.
Our balance sheet metrics continue to be strong giving us continued financial flexibility to support Project Renewal and for other acquisitions beyond Elmer's should we choose to pursue them.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Mike.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks John.
Let's now turn to the balance of 2015.
This morning we reaffirmed our 2015 full-year normalized EPS guidance and raised our core sales guidance.
Our revised core sales guidance range is now 5% to 5.5%.
And our normalized EPS guidance range remains $2.14 to $2.20.
Our best estimate for delivery is at the midpoints of each component in this full-year guidance.
We've held our normalized EPS guidance despite our expectation that the full-year negative foreign currency impact will now be $0.41 to $0.44 about $0.05 worse than previously communicated as a result of the further weakening of currencies in Latin America and Canada.
We've taken broad-based actions to deal with the currency impact and have made good progress covering the exposure.
The expansion of Project Renewal has helped and we will take further action through Q4 to cover the full impact.
In 2015 we expect A&amp;P investment to increase by over 16% and A&amp;P as a percentage of sales to be about 5%.
Despite the unprecedented ForEx challenge we remain firm in our conviction to steadily increase brand support given the core growth acceleration and market share increases we're experiencing.
Year to date we've increased value market share in the U.S.
in 10 of 13 product categories that IRI measures and dollar sell-out has increased over 5% in 11 of those 13 product categories.
Our innovation brand investment and drive for broadened core distribution are working.
In 2015 on a currency-neutral basis the $2.17 midpoint of our normalized EPS guidance range represents very strong double-digit EPS growth of nearly 30%.
If circumstances develop that give us flexibility to deliver beyond the $2.17 normalized EPS guidance midpoint we will prioritize investing back into the business rather than strengthen already highly competitive earnings growth any further in 2015.
Our 2015 guidance now assumes Venezuela will contribute about 130 basis points to our core sales growth an increase of 60 basis points versus last year's contribution.
Excluding the contribution to growth of our Venezuelan operations the midpoint of our full-year 2015 core sales guidance range would be 4%.
Our 2015 guidance now estimates Venezuela will contribute $0.12 to our 2015 normalized EPS.
Excluding the contribution of our Venezuelan operations to normalized EPS the midpoint of our revised 2015 normalized EPS guidance range would be $2.05.
Our initial outlook for 2016 calls for continued growth acceleration and sustained strong normalized earnings per share growth in line with the Growth Game Plan acceleration stage guidance.
Our initial 2016 full-year guidance is core sales growth of 5% to 6% and normalized EPS of $2.35 to $2.44.
Our guidance assumes another double-digit increase in A&amp;P investment in 2016.
The 2016 guidance also assumes that foreign exchange negatively impacts normalized EPS by an additional $0.21 to $0.23 beyond the $0.41 to $0.44 experienced in 2015.
On a currency-neutral basis our 2016 full-year guidance represents strong double-digit earnings per share growth of over 20%.
In order to provide more visibility into our initial 2016 full-year guidance we have provided a view excluding the contribution of our Venezuelan operations.
Excluding the contribution of our Venezuelan operations our initial 2016 full-year guidance is core sales growth of 4% to 5% and normalized EPS of $2.21 to $2.30 an increase of 8% to 12% compared with our 2015 Venezuela adjusted base of $2.05.
We will provide more perspective on the factors that could influence delivery in 2016 with our fourth quarter earnings.
So let me close now by reiterating that we've had a very good first nine months of the year delivering strong competitive results.
Growth continues to accelerate.
And despite unprecedented foreign currency pressure we're delivering very strong normalized EPS results.
Our initial 2016 full-year guidance aligns with our long-term outlook of 4% or greater core sales growth and double-digit normalized EPS growth.
Our building momentum is a function of the sharp choices we've made.
We're investing to create advantaged brand development and innovation capabilities and are backing them up with category-leading marketing investment.
Our innovation funnel has nearly doubled since 2013 with value per project up over 150%.
These bigger projects have moved steadily from concept to market and are now launching like: Graco's 4Ever car seat offering four seats in one so that your car seat grows with your child; or Dymo's XTL Industrial Labeling System which is outfitted with time-saving features to make complex labeling jobs simple for tradesmen; or Paper Mate InkJoy Gel Pens which dry three times faster for reduced smearing; or Rubbermaid's FRESHWORKS Produce Preservation System which keeps produce and berries fresher for up to 80% longer.
These innovations leverage strengthened execution capabilities in R&amp;D and the new product design capability we've invested to create at our purpose-built design center.
Our growth ideas are being supported with industry-leading investment and the near doubling of our advertising and promotion spending.
This investment has been enabled by our determination to make Newell leaner and more efficient and to unlock the craft capacity for growth.
Coupled with the actions we've taken to strengthen our portfolio like last week's acquisition of Elmer's Krazy Glue and X-ACTO these choices to build and then invest behind industry-leading brands and innovation are yielding some of the strongest growth results Newell has experienced record normalized operating margin and record normalized earnings per share.
We're on a path to completely transform Newell delivering highly competitive and differentiated results.
Growth is the engine that powers us.
That's the Growth Game Plan into action.
That is the new Newell Rubbermaid.
Let me now pass the line to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
Your first question comes from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Hey guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Dara.
How are you? Good.
How are you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Great.
So Mike or Stip just one clarification.
As you think about 2016 if you did decide to deconsolidate Venezuela at some point do you think you'd look to offset that negative impact through other areas in the P&amp;L? Or with the FX pressure even before Venezuela and the planned investment behind the business is it unrealistic to expect any significant mitigating actions versus that potential Venezuela impact in 2016? And then the real question Mike ex-currency you're expecting local currency earnings to be up about 30% this year next year as you mentioned 20%-plus.
It's heroic you were able to offset the FX through other areas in the P&amp;L and certainly better than peers.
But do you worry at all that you're stretching the organization to hit these numbers and to fully offset FX? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Dara great questions.
It's awfully early to know or speculate about what we would do if we were to deconsolidate the Venezuelan business.
We actually have a ton of flexibility with all the work we're doing on cost and with the significant investments.
We've got incremental investments we've got planned for next year as I said.
Our base plan assumes we deliver double digit increases in A&amp;P investments next year on top of the increases we delivered this year and on top of the increases we made last year on our way to this goal of getting to 7% A&amp;P ratio in the business by the end of the first  the end of the Growth Game Plan window five-year window.
And so we have lots of flexibility to deal with all kinds of different circumstances going into next year.
I wouldn't want to speculate on exactly what we would do.
I think strategically our commitment is to continue to invest in these brands because we see the phenomenal results and the growth acceleration and more importantly the sheer gains we're garnering in our core businesses and our home markets.
And so while we'll have flexibility to do any number of different things in 2016 and beyond we want to keep our eye on the ball of the strategic agenda we have for growth acceleration and the strengthening of our brands.
We feel we're really in a terrific position right now having started to prove out the effectiveness of this operating model and we want to see that all the way through.
That said we've demonstrated this capability to flex and find the right balance between both the top line growth in margin development and earnings development and you should expect us to continue to apply that principled approach and balanced approach going forward.
Our guidance we've given you visibility into what our guidance would look like ex-Venezuela that our guidance really is the 5% to 6% core growth and what effectively is 8% to 12% growth off of our midpoint of $2.17 this year  or next and we'll see how the whole year plays out as we get a little bit closer.
Obviously lots of moving parts in currency and we've made a set of assumptions about next year but we'll have to flex and adapt in what has been a pretty volatile and changing environment.
With respect to stretching the organization one of the great assets of Newell and I've learned to respect and appreciate it as I've been here for a little bit over closing in on four-and-a-half years now this team just has this tenacity for delivery and it's a great asset.
It's one of the things you can't teach.
And it's such a core in asset of what we've got here.
So I think our team is unwavering in their commitment to try to achieve everything we've been leaning our shoulders into.
And there are moments when that gets tiresome and people are weary but we've got a strong focused team committed to changing the perception of our company in the marketplace in making Newell into a leading industry performer.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Lauren.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about Home Solutions.
So you mentioned Food &amp; Beverage doing high single-digit growth.
How much longer is there on the storage tote exits really left? And then I was curious about the timing of the innovation launch on the FRESH deal if that's a fourth quarter initiative because I feel like that could drive another leg of growth beyond the hydration that you're already seeing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes it's a great question.
So Lauren we still have more work to do and we're pacing that work against our need to deliver the results in aggregate.
You see this playing out actually in our Canadian results right now where we have even a bigger Rubbermaid Consumer Storage business than we do on a U.S.
on a per capita basis.
And so we've got more work to do there.
We will manage it deliberately and planfully against the upside potential of our Food Storage business.
But we will continue to work that issue right through 2016 and maybe even into 2017.
But you should expect and understand that that's captured in our plan and it's captured in our guidance.
And so don't expect us to really kind of spring any surprises on you about that.
That's baked into our logic and the algorithm for Home Solutions growth.
On Food Storage you're right.
We've got this great innovation called FRESHWORKS which goes towards the end of this year and really kind of picks up momentum in next year.
We're extending the concept behind LunchBlox which has been a terrific success as households become more durable and less focused on consumable storage.
And school systems and regulatory bodies and municipalities get concerned about waste in landfill cost.
We're extending that concept which is kid-focused to adults with an idea called Rubbermaid FASTEN + GO which is a terrific application of lunch to work for adults that I think is going to really be interesting to watch play out over next year that comes a little bit later in the year than FRESHWORKS.
And then we've got more activity in the back end of the year that is  it's probably more of a 2017 idea on Rubbermaid core Food Storage.
I'm not going to go into it too much now.
You should expect that we end up with this nice rhythm and sequence of sustained innovation coming on Rubbermaid that effectively creates a renaissance for that brand with its core in the kitchen and in Food Storage Preservation and Food on-the-go.
And so it's very exciting next few years on Rubbermaid I think.
Combine that with the Beverage work we're doing on all three brands bubba Contigo and the Rubbermaid brand and you get some exciting stuff that should more than offset the down elevators on the less profitable portions of the Consumer Rubbermaid Consumer business.
And importantly you should see some growth acceleration on Home Solutions next year as a consequence of that profile of performance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's great.
Thank you.
And then on Baby you mentioned that you have adjusted pricing on the value end of the portfolio.
How far into the quarter did that flow through retail? Are you seeing any indication of competitive response? Do you think pricing will be sort of stable there for the next couple of quarters? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No we implemented that through the third quarter.
And we've  it's on certain items on our flank at a couple of mass merchants where we've done that.
So it's not across the board.
It's really a defensive tactic that we do not want any of the lower end players to grab too much share and then be able to over time leverage that scale to do more strategic work or directly competing with Graco.
So we're always prepared to kind of take the defensive posture and the competitive posture that gives us to degrees our freedom to do what we want to do with the brand itself.
I was very pleased with the Graco growth at 8.1%  actually Baby growth at 8.1%.
We had strong recovery in Japan and as importantly really good Graco momentum in the U.S.
despite the valuing down in certain mass merchants to protect our flank against some of our competitors.
So I think we're striking the right balance.
We continue to invest in advertising.
In fact we're investing heavily in advertising in Baby and accepting the margin contraction for the sake of catalyzing the growth.
And I think you should expect us to continue with that algorithm forward into next year.
And if we can eventually we'll back off but we're going to block and flank  we're going to block any flanking activity on our competitors' part because we believe that's the strategically right thing to do to enable us to have the degrees of freedom to invest in the core and in the premium end of our portfolio.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Your next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Can you just talk broadly about the retail conversations you're having right now.
Obviously they're facing quite a bit of wage inflation.
They're paranoid justifiably so on some of the e-commerce growth and then in obviously emerging markets given the currency moves my guess is cash is at a premium right now.
So can you just like broadly talk about what you see on the pricing side and things like that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
All of our partners are moving  all of our bricks and mortar partners are aggressively moving into the e-commerce space.
So they're all benefiting as they get there with the kind of the growth surge that comes from reaching consumers where they want to shop.
And we've made a significant investment to strengthen our capabilities here a few years back and we're I think on the front of that curve in partnership with our retailers to help unlock the upside for them and for us.
So on the e-commerce side I think we're all moving aggressively.
And of course the strategic motivation for us Bill is that we need to have greater than our fair share position in that channel in order to mix up our overall share position as consumers increasingly shift through that medium to do their shopping.
So this is a critical strategic thrust for us as important as broadening our geographic footprint into the emerging markets and you should expect us to be prepared to talk about that pretty steadily for the next four years or five years to be honest with you because that's going to take that kind of investment and energy in pivoting of our talent base to that space in partnership with our retailers.
That's one aspect of the question you asked.
The other relates to some of the pressures that retailers are feeling as a result of wage inflation that they're doing to help their associates live better lives in the context of what's still a tough macro environment for the middle class and in particular the lower end of the middle class.
And so I respect all those choices.
Those are strategic choices.
They're the right choices that puts pressure into their P&amp;L and as strategic partners with our retailers we need to work with them as they deal with those issues.
And there are very constructive ways to do this that benefit both us and  can benefit both us and them through growth acceleration.
Our growth in the mass channel is very strong relative to the mass channels growth right now.
Our POS momentum adds most of the big names.
Mass retailers is quite strong relative to their comp store growth.
And the reason it is is because we built a capability in selling that's committed to a collaborative approach to growth.
Not always do we agree.
We have some tough wrestling matches over terms at times but it's constructive.
And when you think about how we approach moments in time like what many of the retailers are facing right now you should think about it in that context that we will sit down and strategically work through how to make this a win-win scenario.
And that's what the teams are doing and have been doing for a few months right probably since July and August as we got closer to operationalizing our commercial plans for the first half of 2016.
And I sit here today feeling quite confident that we won't be talking about those types of issues with you that we'll deal with it within our operations and we'll end up in a place where we are supporting our retailers' strategic agenda while being uncompromising in our strategic agenda.
And there are always creative paths to the proper resolution in moments of time like this.
So I know that's vague and not too specific but that quite frankly is strategically how I've encouraged the team to deal with it and that's how they're dealing with it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
That's super-helpful.
And then just Stip can you just tell me what the overhead ratio  SG&amp;A overhead ratio was down for the year and then maybe when it starts to accelerate because I know you have some pretty ambitious targets to try to get that number below 15% or 14% over time.
I'm just curious what you think the duration is and when we're going to kind of see that step change because I think that's 20 bps this quarter which is fine but it's not huge either.
So with respect to the year we're down noticeably.
And we continue to make progress.
Part of our big step-up where you'll see probably next year as we tackle some of the support functions coming up.
We have some work to do but it's been well played out and well planned in terms of the delivery overall.
So I think you'll see a better step-up in terms of SG&amp;A.
I think Mike's consistently talked about where we try to benchmark ourselves on what's realistic and where we want to ultimately get to.
The good news is we see the benefit of the SG&amp;A reductions going into the increased advertising and promotion.
And so it obviously gives us more incentive to push harder on the overheads within reason in order to fund the A&amp;P agenda overall.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So the only build I would make on that is that I think on the full year we'll see our overhead below 20%.
And on our way to another step change down in 2016 we've focused a lot of energy up until now on resetting the organization to the new operating model and we've deferred on a lot of the back office work until this point in time.
And that's where the next round of savings will come through playing for a more efficient back office overhead structures.
Part of that is the choice we've made to get out of this beautiful corporate headquarters building beautiful but expensive and play for a different type of environment that is more in sync with the kind of the virtual nature of how management today has to operate.
We're on the road all the time so you don't need these huge edifices anymore.
We want our money focused not on infrastructure but on brands.
And so you will see the benefits of those choices which we've made now start to flow through in 2016.
And the other thing you should recognize in our numbers this year is actually relative to our expectations we're having a very good year.
So and despite making progress on overheads we're covering what should be a good year from a management incentive perspective this year for our people which I'm very happy for I'm proud of because I do think it reflects the extraordinary work that they've done but in bed within our overhead numbers that you see or you can back into are those costs.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
That's super helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Mike you talk a lot about incremental investments sort of continuing to put money back into the business.
And I guess at some point when do you reach the point of diminishing marginal returns? And how are you thinking about allocating that incremental spending sort of way down the line? And I guess this leads to a second question which is is that one of the things that's sort of feeding your appetite from an acquisition standpoint in terms of the ability to invest more behind these brands maybe than what their current owners can do? And then to add another thing on to that how are you feeling about divestitures on the other side in terms of  you're obviously dealing with Dcor.
Is this something where we should expect a modest change from a divestiture standpoint every year every two years something like that? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> John great questions.
We continue to believe that the right destination for us in order to be able to afford to deploy our portfolio into white space geographies is about 7% of revenue in A&amp;P.
We don't expect to get there overnight.
We expect to get there over the next couple of years.
And we can always adjust the cadence by which we play that story out.
So there's no rush to get there and we're not going to spend any money on things that don't justify spending money on.
So every dollar is valuable to us and we are looking at the investment profile in certain businesses and asking the questions you would want us to ask on growth yield.
And also to your point the next dollar how do you deploy the next dollar? Should you put the next dollar into Writing? Are you sure you're going to be able to get the growth yields you've gotten so far out of that investment? So we have an ambition for geographic deployment of the portfolio particularly in Writing and Tools increasingly in Food and in Beverage and those will come with costs.
We look at some of the acquisitions like Contigo as a brand.
And we look at the acquisitions that we've just made on Elmer's and say man I wonder if you could accelerate the growth even further on a brand like Contigo with an investment in communication which is a possibility.
We're exploring that.
We don't default to an assumption that in fact that can yield.
We really don't.
We're pretty objective about this.
But we will go explore that.
So what does branded communication look like in a brand like Contigo? The Elmer's business we love these brands.
They're great brands.
We think we can apply our operating model to these brands.
And because of the breadth of resources we have relative to their prior owners we do believe that a brand like Elmer's and maybe a brand like Krazy Glue and probably someday a brand like X-ACTO could benefit from brand support in a way that the prior owners couldn't generate.
And so that's clearly another opportunity for us going forward.
But all that said we're not going to spend money unless it generates a yield.
There's plenty of investment we need to make in e-commerce for example.
And I'd just gladly put some of that money back to capability development to set up a more strategic future for our business as put it into brand support.
These are very specific choices that our leadership team sits around the table and discusses.
We continue to manage resource deployment both human capital and money very  in not such a democratic way.
We sit around the room and we make those choices based on where we think the most strategic value can be created.
If there isn't a place to spend it on we'll just let it flow through to margin.
And like I said when we announced the third phase of Project Renewal that was related to overheads about 50% of the savings we expect to generate from that restructuring extension is going to flow to margin and you're starting to see some of that.
We delivered operating margin of 15.2% which is a 90 basis point increase despite delivering 5.9% core sales growth with 5.2% A&amp;P investment.
That's a really cool algorithm.
And so we're not in a hurry to get to 7% but we're going to  and we're going to be very thoughtful about where we deploy the money but it's money deployed to extend the growth trajectory in the business.
We've taken our guidance for next year to 5% to 6% core growth.
That's above what we envisioned being able to do at this stage in the Growth Game Plan and it's a testament to the algorithm working.
So I truly appreciate the fact that our investors want us to strike a balance and I actually want us to strike a balance too.
And I never want to spend money on things that don't yield some either strategic benefit or commercial benefit and we won't do that.
That said we'll make mistakes.
We'll learn through our experiences as we go and we'll process that learning.
And if that yields an acceleration in margin versus an acceleration in investment great.
We're as interested in sustained strong growth and simultaneously delivering margin and EPS growth at leadership levels as we are just simply growth as a standalone metric.
So the beauty of our algorithm is I think we're going to be one of the unique companies over the next few years that can deliver strong growth through increased investment in A&amp;P while simultaneously delivering margin expansion and generating free cash flow yield as a result of the restructuring waning through that timeframe.
I'm hard-pressed to see too many companies that will be in a position to do that.
And I think that is what makes us unique in this environment that we're all managing through.
But you have our assurance that we'll be thoughtful and deliberate and disciplined in how we spend your money.
Hey John and on your question on divestitures I don't think you should anticipate we'll be divesting a business every year.
I think we've gotten the portfolio pretty close to where we want it.
Overall there may be some small pieces that we would still consider whether we'd be in that business or not.
But right now I wouldn't anticipate anything significant on the horizon in the short term.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Your next question comes from Kevin Grundy with Jefferies.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Kevin.
Hey good morning guys.
Just to build upon some of the other line of questioning here because we talked a lot about some of this at least at a high level.
So Mike so the top line accelerates to 5% to 6% including Venezuela from the guidance this year which is 5% to 5.5%.
But the EPS growth guidance on an FX-neutral basis slowed.
So I guess a couple; could you bridge those two things? What gets better? What accelerates within the portfolio? We talked (47:18) spending Baby Jogger Contigo other accretive M&amp;A goes into organic.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about the acceleration bridge that for us.
And then secondarily the deceleration in EPS growth particularly given as Project Renewal starts to flow through here seemingly at what should be an accelerated pace? So if you could bridge those two gaps for us that would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No problem.
So I think the thing to look at if you do the math on our growth on a currency-neutral basis this year will be nearly 30%.
Next year if you look at our numbers with Venezuela and adjust for the $0.22 of negative FX that we expect to see there's somewhere north of 25% normalized EPS growth on a currency-neutral basis with Venezuela included in our numbers.
And so yes it does slow from 30% to 25%.
But in the context of the strategic environment we've got where we're continuing to invest in brands and we expect to increase A&amp;P double digit next year I think that's one that we would accept as a smart and balanced approach.
On the growth acceleration we talked a little bit about innovation and the innovation is quite strong as we head into next year.
And so you've got this convergence of all this work we started in 2013 working its way through our innovation funnel to market at the same time as the cost work has enabled this increased investment in A&amp;P.
So you have the convergence of these two events more bigger innovation coupled with more spending to be able to build awareness on these ideas and interrupt the shopping experience with the brand experience to drive commercial conversion.
And so that's the event that leads us into next year and that's why we believe we see growth acceleration.
When we did the Growth Game Plan we first put the Growth Game Plan in front of investors in February 2012.
We did so and promised excluding capital allocation 4% or greater core sales growth in the acceleration stage and 6% to 9% EPS growth in the acceleration stage.
We are well beyond that.
We've been well beyond that all the way through.
And so we feel like we've struck the right balance.
I think that leaning into further EPS growth on a currency-neutral basis it's a choice we can make if we don't have ideas to invest behind.
But I'd rather play for the annuity of revenue expansion and scaling of the company over multiple years than to mortgage that for a short-term benefit beyond 25% EPS growth on a currency-neutral basis.
Understood.
If I could just one follow-up Mike on Venezuela.
I know you're probably sick of talking about it but just a quick update there because the environment is still very difficult if not worsening.
It seems like most CPG peers have all decided to deconsolidate at this point.
It's going to be 6% of your profit based on what you've disclosed and even Pepsi recently has deconsolidated this quarter.
So could you comment on how you weigh the distraction versus the contribution? And maybe just give us an update on the business.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes just one comment on Venezuela.
If you deconsolidate it it doesn't mean you stop operations in countries.
So the distraction is no different from a management perspective.
But it certainly helps in our conversations with investors to take Venezuela off the table.
But the reality is we're not going to walk away.
We don't want to walk away from a 50%-plus share of the Writing market in Venezuela because it's a callout.
What we're doing is preserving  taking a call option on the different geopolitical future there.
And so it would be extremely difficult to ever create a 50% share of market in a country like Venezuela with all the resources it has.
Of course the environment is very difficult and it's going to be volatile.
So taking it off the table would certainly help in our conservations with investors.
We've tried to bring great transparency to the dynamics in Venezuela so that people don't have the opportunity to second guess the core momentum in our business.
You're right.
There's a lot of things that happened.
John and I are both very very connected to what's going on in Venezuela.
Pretty much every day there's something new.
Monday  or over the weekend 350 companies in to see the Finance Minister and the VP to hear about new margin laws that they're considering implementing.
And there are consequences back into our operations.
We're deeply connected to what's happening there.
And we've been quite strategic in our approach here.
And I'm not too bothered by what other people do because I don't understand their circumstances.
We're making the choices we believe are right for us and trying to provide as much visibility for investors such that that they can choose whether to invest in us with full knowledge and exposure.
But the real headline here is we've got a 50%-plus share of the Writing market with great brands in Venezuela.
We have a factory with 350 people that work in it on the ground in Venezuela.
We are very disciplined about managing the cash in so that we don't let the exposure build too dramatically over time and we're looking for all kinds of creative ways to be able to source raw materials locally to be able to someday produce without having to import our raw materials in particularly in our Woodcase Pencil business.
So I don't think that I would do anything differently.
There's no catalyst at the moment for us to deconsolidate.
I'm not sure what other people's logic is for the choices they make.
We took a long position on inventory connected to the October 2014 SICAD auction and that's covered us all the way through this year and will cover us through the end of this year.
It'll come to an inflection point at that point in time and we'll have to see what kind of rate the government offers up for us to access that point because we'll need to be bringing raw materials into the country either late Q4 or early Q1.
Our intention is to be incredibly transparent about this.
It's an awful lot of inside baseball kind of detail for you guys but I don't like some of the narratives out there that I hear occasionally that talk about Newell in the context of Venezuela.
I think they're factually flawed.
And so I'm prepared to give you every bit of detail you need to see what's going on and we'll take a very strategic approach to building our brands over time in the countries as we think is appropriate balancing the cash exposure against the strategic value.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Steve Powers with UBS.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Steve.
Thanks.
Hey thanks.
Mike just to be 100% clear on Venezuela following on from those comments; is your base case now that you are leaning more towards full deconsolidation of the potential next step versus a simple deval to SIMADI maybe with some offsets which I think  offsets which I think was your base case previously? I'm just trying to determine if we're truly in a binary situation here or whether there is still maybe a middle ground? Hey Steve this is John.
We're still evaluating the situation.
We're in a little bit of unique position because we're guaranteed a certain amount of margin there.
And actually we've accessed dollars at the CENCOEX rate this year a couple million dollars worth at CENCOEX.
So you have to throw that into the equation as well for us.
Right now I think our anticipation is to continue to evaluate it.
I'm not sure whether going to SIMADI is a likely outcome or not for us.
But again as Mike said it's a very dynamic situation for us.
It literally changes every other day and we'll continue to evaluate it together with our auditors in terms of what the right decision is for us going forward.
Perfect thank you.
Switching gears so I think on the last call you guys mentioned that the team was on the ground in China working through route-to-market assumptions on Writing.
And I'm just wondering if you could talk more now with that work behind you in 2016 guidance set what the plan is there? How broad how fast when do we start that kind of stuff? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes so good question Steve.
Kristie Juster has been in China for the last week working with the team on this.
And we've built an assumption into our plans that has a very modest contribution coming from China in our Writing business in 2016.
So the way to think about this is that very late 2016 entry into China and a very modest revenue contribution this year more pipeline than consumption and then 2017 a more material contribution.
However our algorithm for growth in China is going to be slow and deliberate.
So it'll be a multicity entry and then we'll learn as we go and broaden the number of cities as our capacity to do so increases.
And when I say capacity I mean our capacity within the P&amp;L to be able to support the investment.
Our first priority for growth is building market share at home.
And our second priority for growth is to extend the footprint of our business to the faster growing emerging markets in a disciplined and systematic way on a select portion of our portfolio.
That's the logic and the algorithm is supported by the Growth Game Plan and that's what's built into our guidance both are a short-term and a long-term guidance.
And so China is not a big contributor to our overall performance next year in Writing but will be more material in 2017 late 2016 shipment for 2017 Back-to-School which happens in the first part of the year and then we'll see how that goes.
And we'll learn from our experience in a couple of cities and then we'll decide how to proceed from there.
Great that's very helpful.
If I could squeeze in one last question; switching gears again to Baby.
The rebound there continues to be great I'm just wondering as you look at 2016 should we think about that as another year of sort of rebound and prioritized growth or you start to flip back and focus more on margin or are we somewhere in between? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes you're right.
We've spent a lot of money on Baby invested a lot to catalyze growth this year.
We've put a lot of money into A&amp;P.
The A&amp;P ratio is higher than what we believe it will be on a run rate basis.
So likely Baby some money comes off the table.
That said we've got amazing innovation coming to market.
I just can't bring myself to not spend trial to build awareness on this stuff.
So we're really excited about what's coming.
We've got some really cool stuff at Baby Jogger that starts to ship at the end of this year into the first part of next year that they never would've been able to do on their own.
So we obviously want to communicate around that.
So I think probably we'll spend lower amounts as a percent of revenue next year on Baby but I wouldn't expect this massive margin recovery.
We didn't build that into our algorithm.
We'll probably spend a little bit less on Tools.
We'll probably hold what is a relatively low investment level on Commercial Products and then we'll post more investment in behind Rubbermaid clearly with the new items that are coming and probably a little bit behind Contigo.
And that will be some of the shift.
So it's where the incremental money goes as opposed to too many pullbacks.
I wouldn't expect incremental money though to go into Baby and go into Writing Food Storage &amp; Preservation Beverages and perhaps a bit into Baby Jogger.
And so it will follow our Win Bigger investments with perhaps the exclusion of Tools and Commercial Products given that we've got growth occurring in both places without huge investment.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Chris.
Hey.
I guess first the $0.21 to $0.23 FX drag is that with or without Venezuela? Because if Venezuela is going to be an FX drag is it included in there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's included in there Chris.
So we've made assumptions about what happens with the SICAD rate not based on anything we know.
But then we did the same thing this year as we made some judgments at the beginning of the year about what happens through the year.
So it's baked in.
That's why I connected in my script that comment to the full year guidance including Venezuela.
Got it.
Okay.
And I guess Michael just for clarification on the whole topic right? Because I think if you go back to last quarter I think Stip you'd said for the back half of 2015 Venezuela might be $0.02 and you guys would scramble if you have to offset it.
There've been various disclosures but I think the K might have implied an annualized rate of something like $0.10.
But I think that  it seems that you guys were leaning towards trying to muscle through that and offset it.
And now today with the guidance Venezuela's $0.14 for 2016 and you're not going to try to offset it.
So I guess one did something change there like how'd you made that comment to try to offset that I just misunderstand that? Did something change like FX elsewhere maybe that makes it harder? And then the concept of mitigating actions in Venezuela on that $0.14 maybe you go back to SIMADI versus deconsolidation.
But what is there that you can do? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right so let's step back to what we've said.
So we've said $0.10 was the Venezuelan impact.
What's happened is because we can't get the bolivars out in U.S.
dollars we invest those bolivars into what have become increasingly high-yield bonds that generate interest income.
So what's happened here is a blend of us pushing and selling more in Venezuela and then also having higher interest income in Venezuela related to those high-yield bonds.
So that's what's happened.
And we've seen through the year that interest income accelerate pretty dramatically from Q3 into what we expect to generate in Q4.
So that's part of the underlying movement from $0.10 to $0.12.
All we've done in providing a framework ex-Venezuela for you is apply the same growth rates off of the midpoint $2.05 ratio.
So if you look at 8% to 12% which is what we've guided to with Venezuela ex-Venezuela we've applied 8% to 12% across that $2.05 midpoint number.
That was because you're taking a fixed number and you're applying a ratio to it and you've got a higher fixed number that you're applying a ratio to to get expansion in the numbers in the GAAP.
That is a data point.
That is not necessarily how the whole year will play out but it was meant to dimensionalize for the Street the contribution currently and the dynamics that would play out at the same growth rate occurred across with and without.
As I said we have a lot of flexibility.
I'm reluctant to compromise the strategic investment posture that we've taken.
But as John asked earlier about are you getting a yield for the next dollar that's similar to the yield you've gotten for the last dollar it's a fair question.
And how we play that will be a matter of how the year sort of unfolds.
Another variable that could influence delivery next year within the EPS range with and without Venezuela is the timing by which the Dcor business gets sold.
We've made assumption about when that occurs but to the degree that takes longer that's a positive.
To the degree that takes shorter it's a negative.
And we'll have to figure all of those things out as we get closer to the year.
The thing that I think you guys can count on is that we're going to strike the right balance here.
We want to be one of the leading performers in our industry from both a top line and bottom line perspective not just the top line perspective.
And as we get closer and get into this and get a clear line of sight to what currency really looks like next year we'll be able to make the right judgments about how to strike that balance.
Hey Chris to add on you answered your own question about scrambling to cover this year.
We do have as Mike mentioned during the script $0.05 more of FX headwind that has gotten worse since the last earnings call and that's obviously part of what we're scrambling to cover to still deliver within the midrange of the guidance.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Wendy.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi good morning.
My first question is just kind of a follow-up; if you exclude Venezuela dear God can you look at the core business and just comment on pricing generally? I know you don't break it out numbers-wise but qualitatively kind of the role of pricing in 2016 top line growth as opposed to 2015 top line growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
So we won't give you a percentage but here are some facts that we'll need to confront next year that while the ForEx impact will be in part influenced by Venezuela it's certainly much broader than that particularly in the first half of the year related to the Canadian dollar related to a bunch of Latin currencies.
So you should expect us to have a rollover benefit from pricing next year to cover that transaction effect and probably incremental pricing to cover the transaction impact related to first half currency issues.
We continue to be able to cover with those moves.
This will be most pronounced in places like Brazil.
It'll be an issue and something we'll have to do in Mexico we'll have to do it in Canada we'll have to do it in Colombia.
So you should expect us to continue to price next year to deal with and to obviously work hard on productivity to deal with the currency-related  the transaction portion of the currency-related challenge.
And we've done a lot of work this year to stay in front of it.
I wouldn't expect us to in a market like the U.S.
compensate for transaction issues occurring in other geographies.
So responsibility of our leaders in their  on the ground in country to deal with their transaction issues.
So we're not going to price in the U.S.
for the sake of covering a transaction ForEx issue in Brazil.
That's just not how  that's not smart strategically to do.
That said we have pricing opportunities in the U.S.
connected to the new go-to-market program that we've rolled out in 2015 and the new Trade Promotion Management tool that we're putting in place that will give us great visibility to how our sales teams are spending the money they spend between gross price and net price.
And if our salespeople are more effective at driving volume with that fund of money it's effectively a net price realization benefit that will flow through in the U.S.
For the first time ever in our company we will be able to track net sales by salesperson and they will be bonused on net sales by salesperson.
So they will have skin in the game to spend that money wisely.
In the past it's been  they've been bonused based on invoice sales because we didn't have visibility.
So there is leverage through that improved operating capability to capture net price realization through the way we spend our money in the marketplace and that's another variable that will contribute to price delivery next year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And given the pricing you took in the Writing segment earlier this year and yet you continue to gain market share there with the sort of commodity deflation we've seen in some areas have you seen a spike up at all in competitive activity on the pricing front or the promotional front that would lead you to potentially have to take back some of that pricing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
We're going to put  I don't envision us pricing down the Writing business next year.
I want to continue to innovate and invest behind the Writing business in a way that creates more consumer involvement with this category which would benefit both the retailer and us in terms of penny profit and margin development for the category.
And so that's the algorithm for us.
If we need to just like in Baby we'll protect our flank.
As you say next year is going to be a modest year in terms of net inflation between sourced finished goods wage-driven inflation and commodity-driven inflation.
So there'll be another quite temperate year in that respect.
So there may be a couple of folks that choose to play the price game I doubt it though in Writing.
The place where we're more vulnerable to that quite frankly is in the less differentiated portion of the Rubbermaid Consumer Storage business which is why we don't want to be in it because there's no material path of differentiation there that would justify premium pricing and that's the portion of our portfolio that tends to get whipsawed in environments where commodities are going in the other direction which is why we don't like it which is why we're steadily and progressively getting out of that and focusing on the portions of our portfolio that are more value-added.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it okay and then just one last one.
On the recent management changes I feel like Mark's [Tarchetti] change was probably fairly well telegraphed in advance.
But on the Bill Burke side I mean I know he's been obviously very important in the organization.
He played a big role in recruiting other people to come over the years.
How much transition do you expect? Do you expect other people to be following him out the door? How much risk is there associated with his departure? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me just say about both people they've been unbelievable business partners for me; playing different roles but playing absolutely critical roles in affecting the change that we've driven here over the last few years.
And they've been great partners to each other which has been really important as we've established our new operating model of development and delivery.
They were the two leaders of those two portions of our organization and they partnered in a way that was terrific to amplify this model of these two activity systems being independent but interdependent.
One group focused on the strategic.
The other focused on commercialization of the ideas.
And so I want to thank them for everything that they've done to breathe life into that model.
Bill is an extraordinary leader.
He's helped the organization understand the context for change and he's helped great Newell legacy employees understand how they can succeed in this new model.
Bill's got immense capacity.
Bill can be the CEO of a company.
Bill and I  Bill had the same issue I had at Unilever which is an age compression issue.
Bill and I are the same age.
Paul [Polman] and I were a few years apart but not enough to make enough of a difference.
And so Bill wants to lead big and he's got a tremendous opportunity to do that and this is probably the right time.
We're both 54 or 55 years old.
If he's going to swing for something big like that this is the time to do it.
So I totally understand why he'd want to go give it a shot.
Bill will be with us right through the first quarter and into the second quarter of next year.
The baton pass on the business will happen on 1/1 to Joe Arcuri.
We're really happy he has joined us and he's really well prepared to take the baton pass from Bill.
I'm just very pleased that we actually have two internal successors.
We didn't have to go to the outside to effect this change.
And Bill and Mark are in charge of delivering the results in 2015 and then they'll pass the batons to Joe and Richard [Davies].
And I think that will happen quite seamlessly.
Richard and Joe are already engaging in the same way that Mark and Bill did.
So I think that we'll continue to be able to breathe life into the model and accelerate its impact.
And I think everybody will be proud to have been part of building out this story.
And Bill is going to help me in the first half of next year with a bunch of different things that we're working on in the supply chain.
As you know we're out looking for a supply chain leader externally but we continue to want to drive the transformation of the supply chain.
We're not waiting for that supply chain leader to come in to do that.
Joe will be involved with a number of big projects that we've got going on there.
And he'll also help activate with me the broader transformation agenda that we've got going on in the overheads area.
And so Joe and Richard will be driving the business.
Bill and I will be working the strategic transformation work with Stip.
And then when Bill signs off we'll celebrate his impact and we'll wish him the best in landing the big job he deserves to garner.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Terrific that's very helpful color.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Olivia.
Hi.
How are you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good.
Good.
First on Baby margins should this essentially go back to becoming a double-digit margin business not necessarily in fiscal 2016 obviously? But is that your expectation over time or is there still a need for incremental investment or things to do on the lower end of value price point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Olivia it's important to remember what's unique about our Baby business.
First of all we've demonstrated the ability to grow this business quite fast.
In 2012  2013 compound growth globally of just about 10%.
And as you see us investing now into this business we've got the growth going towards 8% 5% year to date.
The thing to remember is of course it's a lower margin business so it's dilutive to us at gross margin and also at operating margin given the investment profile we've got on it right now.
But the thing to remember is we don't own many fixed assets and we don't have title for the inventory beyond its port of departure and a good chunk of this business from China.
And so as a result it has a very high return on net assets ratio despite having low gross margin and operating margin.
So as you think about it from a value creation perspective if we grow this business we create a lot of value.
Now all that said I don't expect this business to be a single digit operating income margin business.
This business will get back to a double-digit operating margin business as the revenue continues to scale and as we moderate the investment we've made in this business to catalyze growth.
Got it that's very helpful.
And then just on M&amp;A as you look at your existing portfolio are there areas you think you can continue to bolster with incremental M&amp;A particularly in the Win Bigger businesses? And how important is M&amp;A relative to growing the core organically as you think about the out years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As we mentioned at a recent conference we end up with tremendous amount of flexibility and capacity building over time.
Our market cap today is what about $11.5 billion maybe somewhere between $11.5 billion and $12 billion.
And the kind of total capacity cumulative we end up having with today's capital structure is somewhere around $5.5 billion by 2020.
That's the model we exposed at a recent conference.
So we end up with tremendous amount of flexibility beyond the fundamental improvements in our performance.
And we're going to put that to work in a way that creates value for shareholders and also scales and strategically enhances our company.
Up until now we've been focused on organic growth until late 2014 and then we began to complement that organic agenda with bolt-ons in the core.
Elmer's is a bit of an extension of the shoulders of one of those cores into crafts which I think is exciting and we're going to learn whether the model extends.
I think it does and I think it will be really interesting to see how we do over the next couple of years in accelerating that business's growth with new capabilities deployed and more money deployed against the brands.
So that's going to be an exciting thing to watch.
The other opportunity for the company long-term is to scale the company.
And the question becomes if this model is working which it clearly appears to be working can you apply the model across a sixth or a seventh or a tenth segment? And my theory would be yes it could be applied.
And so there will be options at some point in the future where we'll have to decide whether we want to do something more transformational than the bolt-and-build approach.
I think that's going to be an option that's in front of us and that will be something very exciting if it ever were to transpire.
Our goal is to build the preeminent consumer durables company in the world.
That's our strategic long-term goal.
That's the ambition we have for our company.
In order to do that we've got to continue to do what we're doing but also scale the company.
And we'll have to see how that all plays out.
That may be a dream more than a reality.
But I think it's important for you to understand that that's the scope of our ambition.
Great.
Thanks Mike.
I appreciate it.
Your next question comes from Jason Gere with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> You know what I think all my questions are exhausted at this point so I will pass on to the next caller.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Jason.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Your next question comes from Linda Bolton Weiser with B.
Riley.
Hi thanks for fitting me in.
So Mike can you just comment on  was the Tools growth of 3% in the quarter you said it was improved in the second half.
Was the 3% in line with your planning? And you said that some macro issues are still impacting but you said Brazil improved and EMEA was actually good Tools growth.
So what's so weak? And then on top of that is the overall macro regarding Tools is it stronger or weaker than say compared when you first took over as CEO just when you take all of those different parts of the world together? Are you feeling macro good good or just medium or it's very weak? Just give us some more color on that.
And then for next year is that a low single digit or a mid-single digit grower in Tools? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure great question.
Clearly in the second quarter I think Brazil has been an issue for virtually everybody.
We have a big tools business in Brazil.
We had a tough second quarter in Brazil.
We had a strong third quarter in Brazil.
So some of the issues there have been a little bit more spiky.
The more strategic question mark is in the industrial sector of our Tools business and that has been softer than what we expected.
So the brand that plays there is our Lenox band saw business not the Lenox tools or accessories business but the Band Saw business and that represents about 10% to 15% of the total Tools business.
We grew 3.1% in the quarter.
We expected stronger growth on Tools.
And the thing that fell a little bit short was the Lenox band saw business connected to Industrial sector softness.
It's going to be something we need to watch.
That business was on fire last year and it's had more tempered growth this year.
And that hasn't gotten better through the back half as we had expected.
We had good Irwin growth in virtually every geography in the third quarter but Lenox fell short of our expectations.
And that was covered by Baby momentum more than covered by Baby momentum and Writing momentum.
So the thing to watch going into 2016 is what happens with the Industrial segment  sector and I think your assumption about how to build the model for 2016 is mid-single digit is probably a good number to have 4% to 6%.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Your next question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning and thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> A simple one; outlook for resin and kind of how that plays into your gross margin outlook for this year and next year? Yes.
Hey Bill we see resin most likely as Mike said probably a favorable commodities environment next year maybe coming down just a little bit not as much as you may think and we've had this conversation before about resin not moving as much as and being as volatile as actually the feedstocks are.
But probably it'd be down just a little bit in 2016 would be our anticipation right now.
Now that being said again the caution for us is there's a pretty high demand still on in the number of resins that we use.
So resin guys have done a fairly good job keeping pricing up despite the drop in their feedstock price.
Inc.</span></strong> So it's not a meaningful kind of impact on the gross margin expansion? No I wouldn't say it's meaningful next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then second Mike just going back to Elmer's.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Other than citing my favorite Lloyd Bridges quote from the movie Airplane are there other uses for glue? I'm trying to understand the revenue synergy potential.
And when I say that is it a different take? Contigo and Baby Jogger was kind of we're buying growth businesses so we can grow even faster.
This is a kind of a slow growth where you're  I mean I know that the historical Newell models that utilize it and turn it around but are you going to look at it a little bit of everything going forward for bolt-ons or is this kind of a one-off? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> This is an interesting business because of its adjacency and the buyer synergy between Writing in this business.
So if you were to walk at Walmart the aisle right next to Writing would be where you'd find Mr.
Sketch you'd find Crayola you'd find crafts and that's where the Glue business tends to live.
You could have made the same argument Bill on Writing.
When we started it was a low slow growth business.
And here we are four years later growing through innovation and through brand support.
I think there's all kinds of different applications for Glue that would drive  and crafts that would drive more consumer involvement in the category.
And we'll see how that plays out over time.
Our teams need to connect with the Elmer's team to think about what's in their funnel of ideas and then we got to investment in insights to kind of chart that path forward.
You should count on growth acceleration on the core Elmer's business.
And there's all kinds of really interesting ideas on Krazy that you could embrace doings that we would need to discuss with our new JV partner a Japanese company.
And so I think this is going to be about money and it's going to be about concept developments around the application of the Elmer's brand in the core Glue business and maybe the expansion beyond.
Inc.</span></strong> So do you think it can be growing by the time you lap it for organic growth a year from now where it doesn't dilute kind of your organic growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We hope so.
That will be the goal.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Your final question comes from Stephanie Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for sneaking us in.
We'd like to go one level deeper on the A&amp;P spend if we could.
So two parts to the question; the first is just if you look at that spend can you break it down between brand spend and maybe product-attributed spend or new products that you're introducing and whether that spend need to be attached to a new product innovation? And then secondly do you have any cases where you have been in a stretch investment position and maybe you pulled back where you've seen sales persist at above average rate? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Stephanie you're looking for the split of our A&amp;P by new products versus core.
Is that what you're looking for? Yes if you're willing to break it out that way.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right what we've learned over the last couple of years is that our investment generates the most growth yield when it's connected to innovation.
So the vast majority of our investment is behind product news.
And there are a couple of exceptions to that.
We've done some work on Sharpie on the core brand of Sharpie that have worked to expand consumption but most of the investment is focused on new news.
And that's what you should expect going forward.
That's certainly true on the advertising line.
On consumer promotion it's a more balanced approach; on trade promotion more balanced approach because that's the part of A&amp;P that's focused on activating our brands in key drive periods.
So it's a balance of core and new items.
So all the display materials we use to get off shelf during key merchandising windows are clearly both on the core and on the new news.
So advertising's skewed very dramatically towards new news and promotions skewed  and promotion more balanced across the whole portfolio.
That's the logic you should have in place.
I've seen plenty of ideas and businesses grow without major A&amp;P investment.
You establish a new idea and you get great distribution on it and you continue to activate it with great display activity and punctuate A&amp;P investment or advertising investment you can deliver a sustained growth.
There are many many examples that I can point to in my career where you seed an idea with significant investment upfront and then you pull back over time and did great and continue to innovate in it you get great year two year three momentum.
We're seeing that on InkJoy right now.
If you look back at our spending a year ago two years ago the vast majority of our Writing investment went  a good chunk of it went against Paper Mate InkJoy.
Today our spending is focused on InkJoy new items and not on the core proposition.
So we established InkJoy it continues to grow and now we're punctuating spend on new items.
And so that is one of the kind of the keys to sustained growth to be able to play the game the way you just described and there are many many examples that I could point to across all the categories I've worked in with that has held up.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you very much Laurie.
Thank you to all of you on the call for your interest in our company and most importantly thanks to all the Newell people who work tirelessly to make these results happen.
We'll talk to you soon.
Thanks.
A replay of today's call will be available later today on our website newellrubbermaid.com.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Please stand by.
Good morning and welcome to the Newell Rubbermaid Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After a brief discussion by management we will open up the call for questions.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
A live webcast of this call is available at newellrubbermaid.com on the Investor Relations home page under Events and Presentations.
A slide presentation is also available for download.
I will now turn the call over to Nancy O'Donnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
O'Donnell you may begin.
Thank you.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining Newell's Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call.
Before we begin please take note of Newell's cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements and our most recent SEC filings and in the 8-K that we filed with our press release this morning.
Such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and actual results could differ materially from management's predictions.
Newell undertakes no obligation to update any statements made today.
Let me also remind you that on today's call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please note that Newell has provided reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release in our current 8-K and on our website.
Our presenters today are Mike Polk our President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Stipancich our Chief Financial Officer.
And I'll now turn the call over to Mike.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
We delivered another strong quarter of results and have terrific momentum on our business.
In that context this morning we reaffirmed the 2016 full year guidance we provided on our last earnings call.
Before we get into the results let me comment on three strategic initiatives.
First in late October we completed the acquisition of Elmer's Products.
Elmer's Krazy Glue and X-ACTO represent terrific additions to our great portfolio and will provide dry period synergies at back to school great cross-sell potential across our channels and together with our very fast growing Prismacolor Paper Mate Flair and Mr.
Sketch brands strengthen our position in drawing and crafts.
Elmer's sales will not contribute to core sales until the first anniversary of the completion of the acquisition.
This morning we shared our decision to deconsolidate Venezuela.
We took this decision after significant deliberation.
We've concluded that the increasingly restrictive nature of regulations in Venezuela and the limited and infrequent access to U.S.
dollars has resulted in the loss of the company's ability to make key operational decisions.
We've taken a charge to reported earnings in Q4 and starting in Q1 we will no longer consolidate the performance of our Venezuelan operations.
We've been doing business in Venezuela for many decades and we expect to continue to manufacture and sell our products to Venezuelan consumers despite this accounting change.
Lastly in December we announced a definitive agreement to combine Newell Rubbermaid and Jarden Corporation.
We secured committed financing to ensure deal closure begun the process with the regulatory agencies and have a clear and deliberate path to secure permanent financing.
The process will play out over the next few months and we expect the transaction to be completed in Q2.
We've taken these actions from a position of strength having just finished one of the best years in our history with outstanding growth margin and earnings delivery.
So with that let's get into our fourth quarter and full year results.
In Q4 core sales grew 6.2% the strongest quarterly core sales growth in years.
Excluding Venezuela core sales grew 4.4%.
Normalized gross margin increased 80 basis points to 38.5% driven by pricing productivity and lower input costs which were partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency.
The increase in gross margin enabled a 70 basis point increase in advertising and promotion investment to 5.5% of sales.
And when coupled with a 10 basis point reduction in overheads resulted in a normalized operating margin increase of 30 basis points to 13.7%.
Normalized EPS was $0.56 14.3% ahead of prior year despite having to overcome a $0.06 negative impact from foreign currency.
Our fourth quarter core sales growth was broad based with growth in all five segments.
Combined our Win Bigger businesses grew core sales 11.3%.
Our full year results were strong as well.
Core sales increased 5.5% and excluding Venezuela core sales grew 3.9%.
Our Win Bigger businesses grew 9.4% and our acquisitions when coupled with the core sales growth have offset the negative impact of currency and divestitures to yield 3.3% net sales growth.
Despite currency pressure on cost we expanded normalized gross margin 40 basis points to 39.2%.
Importantly for the full year we increased A&amp;P investment by over 17% to 4.9% of sales.
And while spending more behind our brands we simultaneously increased normalized operating margin 50 basis points enabled by our efforts to make Newell leaner and more efficient through Project Renewal.
All this together yielded 9% normalized EPS growth despite having to absorb a negative $0.39 impact from foreign currency.
Obviously we're pleased with our results in 2015 and we have clear momentum in our business and our operating model is working.
Let me hand the call over to John to go through our results in more detail.
John will also walk through the next steps in the Jarden transaction.
I'll return to provide perspective on our latest view of 2016 and some thoughts on the creation of Newell Brands.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
Fourth quarter reported net sales were $1.56 billion a 2.3% increase versus last year.
The bubba Baby Jogger and Elmer's acquisitions contributed 350 basis points to reported net sales.
Core sales which exclude the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures and the 540 basis point negative impact of foreign currency increased 6.2% and all five of our segments grew in the quarter.
Reported gross margin was 38.3% up 70 basis points to last year and normalized gross margin was 38.5% up 80 basis points.
This improvement was driven by pricing productivity and favorable commodities which more than offset unfavorable currency.
Normalized SG&amp;A expense was $387.3 million or 24.8% of sales up 50 basis points versus the prior year.
We continued our progress on overheads but significantly increased our investment in advertising and promotion by 70 basis points as a percentage of sales.
We invested in major campaigns for writing including our Fine Writing business and Mr.
Sketch as well as Calphalon's SharpIN self-sharpening cutlery sets.
We also invested in advertising for our food storage business and across a number of commercial products platforms.
It's worth noting that for the full year we reduced overheads by 70 basis points as a percentage of sales plowing those savings into the 60 basis point increased investment in A&amp;P.
Normalized operating margin was 13.7% up 30 basis points reflecting the benefits of Project Renewal and other cost savings initiatives pricing and productivity partially offset by a significant increase in strategic investment.
Reported operating margin was 6.5% down from 7.4% in the prior year due in part to higher restructuring charges and acquisition and integration costs.
Interest expense increased $8.4 million year-over-year including expenses associated with the Elmer's and pending Jarden transactions.
During the fourth quarter we issued $600 million in medium-term notes the proceeds of which were used to provide permanent financing for Elmer's.
Our normalized tax rate was 23.2% compared with 26.5% a year ago and our full-year normalized 2015 tax rate landed at 23.4% about 10 basis points down from prior year.
Normalized EPS which excludes restructuring restructuring related and other project costs and certain other one-time items was $0.56 a 14.3% increase to last year.
On a reported basis fourth quarter EPS was $0.05 compared with $0.19 last year mostly driven by the gain on the sale of the Endicia business being more than offset by the noncash charge associated with deconsolidating Venezuela.
I'll now move on to our segment results and starting with Writing reported Q4 net sales were $466.3 million up 11.5% with Elmer's contributing about $37 million.
Core sales were up 12.5%.
Our North American Writing business delivered high single digit growth again fueled by strong innovation marketing and merchandising.
In Latin America Writing core sales showed significant growth in part due to volume and pricing in Venezuela.
For the full year core sales grew 10.9% led by a great back to school pricing and new product launches.
Core sales growth in Drawing and Coloring which includes Mr.
Sketch Prismacolor and Flair were up over 40% in 2015.
Q4 normalized operating margin in our Writing segment was 22.7% a 200 basis point decline versus prior year as significant increased anti-investment and challenging foreign exchange more than offset productivity pricing and cost management.
Net sales in our Home Solutions segment declined 3.7% to $441.8 million.
Core sales increased 0.1% driven primarily by growth in our food storage and beverage ware business offsetting our continued exodus in low-margin Rubbermaid consumer storage business as well as transition of product lines in culinary.
For the full year Home Solutions core sales grew 0.8%.
The segment's normalized operating margin was 12.9% for the quarter a 30 basis point decrease reflecting significantly increased advertising funded in part by productivity and input cost deflation.
Our Tools segment delivered net sales of $207.7 million an 8.6% decline.
Core sales grew 1.4%.
Tools delivered high single digit growth in EMEA with modest growth in North America while Latin America declined mid-single-digits reflecting challenges in Brazil macros and the impact on volumes as a result of pricing to cover foreign exchange.
For the full year core sales grew 2.2% in the Tools segment.
Q4 normalized operating margin in this segment was 9.4% a 10 basis point decline versus last year.
The decline was driven by foreign exchange challenges in Europe and inflation in Brazil more than offsetting productivity and disciplined overhead management.
Reported net sales in our Commercial Products segment declined 2.8% to $207.1 million driven by foreign exchange and the sale of our medical cards business earlier in the year.
Core sales increased 5.8% driven by pricing and strong volume growth in North America as well as growth in Latin America.
For the full year Commercial Products grew core sales 4.8%.
Normalized operating margin in the fourth quarter was 13.3% a 190 basis point increase to last year thanks to pricing productivity and input cost benefits partially offset by higher investment in A&amp;P.
Our Baby segment reported $237.9 million in net sales a 13.9% increase compared to 2014.
Core sales grew a very strong 10.2%.
Double digit growth from Graco North America driven by strong innovation and previous advertising and promotional investments more than offset declines in EMEA and APAC.
For the full year the segment's core sales grew 6.4%.
Baby's Q4 normalized operating margin was 11.7% up 340 basis points to last year largely due to contributions from Baby Jogger and new product development as well as the comparison against the A&amp;P investment we made last year to stimulate growth.
Looking at Q4 sales by geography North America core sales grew 5.7% with strong results from Writing Commercial Products and Baby.
EMEA declined 0.3% with growth from  in Tools offset by modest declines in our other EMEA businesses.
In Latin America core sales grew 29.7% with pricing and volume gains in Writing and Commercial Products more than offsetting challenges in Tools related primarily to the Brazilian economy.
And finally Asia Pacific core sales grew 0.2% with growth from Writing and Tools offset by declines in Baby.
Operating cash flow for the full year 2015 came in at $565.8 million compared to $634.1 million prior year.
Though recall in 2015 we made a $70 million voluntary contribution to our U.S.
pension plan and we incurred higher restructuring and Project Renewal-related cash payments in 2015.
Adjusting for these our operating cash flow was up about 2% year-over-year.
You'll note also that we recognized a significant gain associated with the sale of Endicia in the fourth quarter and we have about $60 million in taxes we'll need to pay on the gain which we'll do in the first quarter and which will be reflected in our first quarter operating cash flow.
We returned $65 million to shareholders in Q4 including $50.9 million in dividends and $14.1 million to repurchase 337 000 shares.
For the full year 2015 we distributed $206.3 million in dividends and $180.4 million to buy back 4.53 million shares.
We suspended the repurchase of shares midway through the fourth quarter in light of the Jarden transaction.
With respect to the transaction we continue to make great progress towards the closing of the combination.
This week we finalized our $1.5 billion three-year term loan which will fund a portion of the purchase price.
We also finalized the amendment of our revolving credit facility including increasing the facility from $800 million to $1.25 billion to accommodate the increased seasonal working capital needs associated with adding Jarden to the family.
We continue to work in the mechanics for assuming two tranches of Jarden notes the 3.75% coupon notes and the 5% coupon notes which we plan to retain after the merger.
We're well underway and the work seems to go to the public debt markets as we get closer to the anticipated closing in order to secure the balance of funds for the transaction and we don't anticipate any challenges associated with the upcoming debt offer or with maintaining our committed investment grade rating.
Over the past several weeks we've executed Treasury rate locks for a little over $2 billion of anticipated debt offering.
And in addition recall that we have a fully committed bridge loan facility in place which is available for us to utilize if we encounter any unforeseen challenges with issuing debt at attractive rates.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Mike.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks John.
Let's now turn to a quick discussion of 2016 and then to some comments on the Jarden combination.
This morning we reaffirmed our 2016 full year guidance for core sales growth and normalized EPS excluding our Venezuelan operations.
Our 2016 full year guidance is for core sales growth of 4% to 5% and normalized EPS of $2.21 to $2.30.
Our best estimate for delivery is at the midpoints of these ranges.
Excluding Venezuela for both 2016 and 2015 results the midpoint of the normalized EPS range represents double-digit growth.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance the exclusion of Venezuela will negatively impact our Q1 2016 normalized EPS by about $0.03 to $0.04.
There are two key factors that will influence where we fall in the 2016 full year guidance ranges: the first being the performance of our Tools business; and the second the impact of foreign currency.
Our Tools segment had a challenging 2015 as the industrial products and services business slowed from high single-digit growth in 2014 to slight growth in the 2015.
This contraction in our growth rate was most pronounced in Brazil and China.
Our 2016 outlook assumes better performance driven by building IP&amp;S momentum in the U.S.
and Europe partially offset by continued sluggishness in Brazil.
Our 2016 full year core sales guidance assumes low to mid single-digit growth in our Tools segment.
The second factor influencing our results will be foreign currency.
Our 2016 full year guidance assumes a $0.26 to $0.28 negative impact of foreign exchange $0.04 to $0.05 worse than our last estimate driven by the late Q4 strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
We've taken broad-based actions to deal with the expected negative forex impact with the most pricing actions already in the market.
We expect that the combination of pricing gross to net optimization productivity and Project Renewal-driven overhead reductions could cover the forex headwinds while simultaneously enabling increased investment and capabilities in brand support.
In 2016 we're planning to increase A&amp;P funding by about 20% to 5.5% of sales and continue to strengthen our Insights and eCommerce capabilities with further investments.
These investments are yielding strong growth dividends.
In the U.S.
in 2015 we've increased value market share in 10 of the 13 product categories that IRI measures.
In nine of those product categories our IRI dollar sellout or POS grew by over 8%.
These strong U.S.
market share increases drove U.S.
core sales growth of 4.1% and when coupled with acquisitions drove net sales growth of 8.8%.
The strategic choice to reposition the company from a holding company to an operating company releasing costs through Project Renewal such that we increase spending behind our brands and invest in an advanced set of capabilities is clearly working.
Our track record of delivery and the value-creation story derived from our accelerating growth and margin development sets the stage for the next very exciting period of transformation as we combine our company with Jarden to create Newell Brands.
This combination will create a $16 billion consumer goods company of leading brands that compete in large growing unconsolidated global markets.
The combination scales the company in key geographies customers and channels more than doubling the business in the U.S.
Canada U.K.
France Germany Mexico Brazil Japan and China.
The combined portfolio is complementary and quite focused with over 80% of revenue concentrated in just 30 brands.
And there are a number of intuitive combinations of brands and categories like Graco and NUK as well as Rubbermaid food storage and food saver that will yield greater consumer and customer impact for accelerated growth in category development.
The combined portfolio is quite profitable with 80% of the combined revenue having a gross margin over 39% and operating margin over 15% before synergies.
So there is plenty of gross margin to work with and with overheads focused and in some cases reoriented to the activities that drive growth there will be significant potential for margin development and growth beyond what we expect to deliver through the synergies already identified.
Our ambition is to bring together and leverage the best talent and capabilities from both companies to drive strong growth increase margins and increase cash flow through superior insights and product design leading innovation and brand development strategic category management and selling delivery of the cost synergies to margin achievement of savings beyond those assumed in the acquisition model to fund increased brand investment and enterprise-wide capabilities for growth and after paying down debt to our target leverage ratio of 3 times to 3.5 times active portfolio management that strengthens our positions in key categories.
We will deploy the best aspects of the playbooks from both companies to drive a highly competitive set of outcomes.
We'll respect the differences in each category channel and business model yet simultaneously establish a set of enterprise-wide capabilities.
We will scale and strengthen our selling capabilities to provide broadened access and reach for our categories and brands into new channels and customers.
We will quickly adapt both companies' rapidly developing eCommerce strengths to establish a leading capability in direct-to-consumer eCom which is a differentiated Jarden capability and-bricks-and-mortar and pure-play eCom where both companies have excellent momentum.
We will immediately play for procurement savings as the combined companies buy over $9 billion in source finished goods commodities and other services.
We will leverage our scale for distribution savings in areas like ocean freight where combined we ship over 65 000 40-foot ocean containers a year from Asia.
And of course we'll quickly convert the savings associated with bringing two public companies together establishing a lean and agile corporate infrastructure very similar to what's in place today at Jarden.
So we'll deliver these outcomes in a structured way extending the scope of the Newell transformation office which is in place to ensure the delivery of Project Renewal savings to the total enterprise including the work of integration.
We're roughly 30 days into planning and we expect to find far more opportunities once the two teams are able to fully engage with each other.
We've been conservative in our assumptions but we'll pursue every opportunity we uncover.
We have no revenue synergies no working capital benefits and no tax synergies in our deal economics and have a very clear line of sight to at a minimum $500 million of cost synergies.
The first $500 million of synergies is expected to create a company with EBITDA margins of over 20% and annual EBITDA of over $3 billion giving us the firepower to reduce the leverage ratio to 3 time to 3.5 times within two years to three years and then subsequently to deploy capital to create further value beyond our organic agenda.
As John stated in his comments we've secured committed financing to enable deal closure and expect to maintain our investment grade rating.
We're in the process of seeking the necessary regulatory approvals and expect to secure permanent financing sometime after both companies file their 10-Ks.
With the current assumptions and despite widened credit spreads we expect the deal will deliver high single-digit accretion in year one mid to high-teens accretion by year two and strong double-digit accretion by year three.
So let me close now by reiterating that we've had an outstanding 2015 delivering strong competitive results.
Growth continues to accelerate and despite unprecedented foreign currency pressure we've increased margins and delivered very strong normalized EPS growth.
Our building momentum is a function of the sharp choices we've made.
We're investing to create advantaged brand development and innovation capabilities and as a result our innovation funnel has more than doubled since 2013 with project value up 160%.
These innovations leverage a new product design capability we've invested to create at our purpose-built design center and we are backing our growth ideas with industry-leading marketing investment.
This investment has been enabled by our determination to make Newell leaner and more efficient and to unlock the trapped capacity for growth.
Coupled with the actions we've taken to strengthen our portfolio these choices are yielding some of the strongest results Newell has ever experienced.
We're on a path to completely transform Newell Rubbermaid delivering highly competitive and differentiated results.
Our operating model is extendible to more categories more brands and more geographies.
This is the core logic that underpins the Jarden combination.
The creation of Newell Brands will now allow the best talent at both companies to apply the best of what is working at both companies across a broader more compelling and more diversified landscape of opportunity and brands.
We will build one of the most exciting companies in our industry a destination for talent while simultaneously unlocking an incredible amount of value for our shareholders.
That is the Growth Game Plan into action.
That is the future Newell Brands.
Let me now pass the line to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
Your first question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Chris.
Hey.
Mike I guess on the top line right obviously the 4.4% pace you guys did this quarter excluding Venezuela is strong right and it's in a tough environment.
Your guide  and you talked a little bit about it but your guide is 4% to 5% for next year.
But if the comps get a little bit tougher  obviously we talked about Brazil and China a little bit but can you just go through your confidence for maintaining that growth rate in a tougher environment on tougher comps? And I know part of it is the increase in A&amp;P but if you can go through that a little bit and express it that would be great.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah well it's the combination of the increase in spending Chris but also we've got the strongest innovation plan we've had since I've been here.
If you remember we changed our whole model back in the middle of 2013 and I've said that the gestation period on new ideas that were coming through our brand development organization was 18 months to 24 months.
And the way these projects work is they sort of layer into the market.
And so as we progress through 2016 and into 2017 we've got some of the strongest innovation ideas we've really ever had hitting the marketplace.
An example of that is in the first quarter we'll launch new PaperMate InkJoy Gels with three times faster drying ink versus the leading gel pen for an advantaged performance.
Less smearing.
We'll launch Rubbermaid FRESHWORKS which leverages our food storage business but applies a filtration a membrane to prevent oxidation from occurring on fresh fruits and vegetables which should extend the produce life by  we expect to extend the produce life by nearly 80%.
So you've got a whole series of innovations.
John mentioned the SharpIN knives where Calphalon's got these ceramic sharpeners in the butcher block.
So every time you withdraw the knife you have the perfectly honed blade.
And so these are the examples of the kind of innovation that has started to filter into our business in late 2015 and really hits its stride in 2016.
So you've got the combination of increased spending.
We've really sequentially increased spending since we've been here.
We've tripled the amount of advertising we're spending on these brands.
If you look at the number of GRPs we're delivering we've actually increased it by five times since we started because we've gotten so much efficiency in buying by going to one buying agency.
So we've got all of these things converging in the marketplace which gives us the confidence that when coupled with what's a building selling system with respect to commercial execution and strengthened selling execution those things all converge to give us confidence that 4% to 5% is deliverable and Q4 is good evidence of that at 4.4% growth excluding Venezuela.
And then just I guess two quick ones.
Number one does the Jarden acquisition at all affect the timing of the planned Writing launch in China? And then you talked about financing.
Do you still think that 4% is a decent way to look at financing rates or has that crept up you think? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah let me answer the first question.
The answer simply is no.
But we didn't have a lot built into our plans in 2016 for China.
Remember we'll launch late in Q4 to get to market in maybe one or two big cities.
The team is presenting their final plans to me shortly.
But one or two big cities for back to school 2017 which is in February-ish in China.
So we don't get a lot of benefit in the revenue line from China this year but we will get some nice growth in Writing in 2017.
But no it should not impact anything we're doing on Newell Rubbermaid.
In fact one of the most important things that both companies can do in the transition is to execute their 2016 plans flawlessly.
And while there will be a lot of work going on in the center to organize the delivery of the synergies it's really critical that each set of operating unit stays focused on the plans they've built for 2016.
So I wouldn't envision really anything materially changing for either company in terms of their core plans.
On financing yeah credit spreads have widened since we announced the deal in December.
But there's all kinds of levers we can pull to mitigate that issue.
And quite frankly the interest rate sensitivity in the overall deal is the least meaningful variable as we've looked at sensitivities.
So we don't know where it will all end.
I think it'll come down to the difference in tenure we could choose to place on the new debt.
And we'll make that decision based on the best economic choice for the company.
And if we have to accept slightly higher interest rates for the sake of making the right economic choice we'll do that.
We'll cover it someplace else in the algorithm.
And obviously one of the big levers we have is the balance of fixed to floating rate debt we choose to deploy.
But look we're relatively relaxed.
Of course we would have preferred to not see credit spreads widen the widening of credit spreads for BBB- debt is  our spreads don't look any different than the market at this point.
So we're moving  while we may have moved a little earlier than the market we're in line with the market today and we'll just have to see how that plays out.
We're not going to compromise the right long-term choice for the sake of managing to an interest rate assumption because we have so many other levers in the P&amp;L to compensate for that in the very near term.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning.
Just the first question on SG&amp;A in the quarter.
Just trying to understand how that came in versus expectations.
And when I say that I mean typically in the past few years you've kind of stepped up advertising promotion in the fourth quarter just to kind of get a head start on the next year.
I didn't know if that happened again.
And also if there were some kind of step-up of incentive comp since you look like you outperformed kind of your core projections.
Hey Bill.
It's John.
You're absolutely correct.
We did step up A&amp;P.
We made also some step-ups in strategic SG&amp;A investment as well.
So for example e-commerce which has been a fantastic result for us we're plowing more resources into.
And you're right on the incentive comp.
That also drove up the SG&amp;A number in light of the strengthened performance and the good finish to the year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Also John just to build on that we also placed a marker in Q4 on shopper insights.
Well we've made a lot of progress.
We've doubled the amount of insight work we've done.
And actually the size of the team's up by 50% since we started in 2011.
But where we haven't done as much research is in the area of shopper insights and  because we wanted to get the fundamental consumer insight work done to support the innovation and brand agenda.
In Q4 we made the first in a series of investments we'll make in shopper insights to ensure that we're driving leading levels of category management.
Joe Arcuri and his team are really focused on taking our selling capabilities sort of to the next level bringing the best of what fast-moving consumer goods have in category management capabilities to the consumer durables space.
And part of putting the fundamentals in place is establishing a good foundation of shopper insights.
So we made an investment in Q4 in that as well.
We had the flexibility to do that.
And as you know with the  on the Q3 call I mentioned that if we had the room to do more we would invest more.
And that's in fact what we did.
It's strategic investment in A&amp;P.
It's strategic investment in structural cost and e-comm and insights coupled with as John said we had a really terrific year from a performance standpoint in truing up a bonus.
Inc.</span></strong> That's  no thanks for the color.
And then just second on the Jarden transaction is there any way you could kind of give us an idea or a rough guess on  not a guess  on how fourth quarter numbers kind of came in for them? And there's a  seems to be a bit of consternation about their organic growth I'm assuming it was the 2% to 3% rate just with the weather being warm but maybe some color there.
And then also Mike as you look forward any kind of idea of how this works in terms of number of divisions? I mean Jarden has three divisions but kind of 25 different key divisions and you have five.
I didn't know if you have that kind of architecture of how it would break out and how you see it splitting up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me first comment on your question regarding Q4.
Obviously I  we don't own Jarden and I actually don't have access to their performance data as they  they are the ones that have to communicate that.
All I would say though is if you looked at their numbers through the middle  through the third quarter their organic growth year to date was 5.9%.
So they have terrific momentum in their business.
They have an incredibly strong year ago performance in Q4 that they need to lap and I know  I'm sure you all know this but their organic growth in Q4 of 2014 was 11.4%.
So a big hurdle to cross.
No matter what way you cut it with 5.9% banked through the end of Q3 they're going to have a very good year.
And if you look at the combination of the two companies and look at their performance once you get their data the combination's going to be pretty darn strong relative to anybody else in our industry.
With them having 5.9% growth banked through Q3 and us having now 5.5% banked on the full year that's a strong set of numbers.
And so I think our eyes are set on the future.
As I've said before I don't get kind of locked in on any kind of 90-day performance cycles.
Our view is set on what's going to happen over the next three years and how to unlock the value in this combination.
So hopefully I expressed that in a compelling way in my script.
But obviously we're very very excited about leveraging what is terrific momentum in their business and terrific momentum in ours to bring the best of both companies together to build a set of assets and businesses that perform better than either of us would have been able to do on our own.
With respect to the design of the company what I need our teams to do and what I know Jim Lillie at Jarden is encouraging his team to do is to just focus on delivery in 2016.
Our energy and our synergies will be focused on the things I spoke about previously and not on big sweeping org design changes.
Really important to keep our eye on the ball with respect to the demand creation activities in both businesses to preserve the momentum that I was referring to earlier.
We'll figure out as we get to know the business over time we'll figure out what the right model is for the overall company.
We'll do that quickly as we did when we joined Newell Rubbermaid.
It's important to articulate a set of portfolio of priorities and resources human capital and money needs to flow to the businesses with the greatest opportunities.
And so we will do all of that work but we're not going to walk in with a preconceived notion of that.
We will do that work over time and that will help shape our approach to how we organize.
What is clear is that we will build a set of enterprise-wide capabilities that cut across both businesses that in the areas of insight and design and innovation that our businesses can tap into and e-commerce for example.
So those are really obvious opportunities and we will obviously combine two public companies into one and there will be changes associated with that reality.
But in the operating units we want to have everybody's head down focused on execution of the plans that they've got in place.
Both companies have a very compelling set of plans for 2016.
It's really important that we execute those with excellence.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thanks so much.
And your next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi John.
Good morning Mike.
Can you talk a little bit about aside from Brazil maybe how some of your more economically sensitive categories are doing right now? Obviously there are some concerns in terms of discretionary exposure particularly as we look at the combination of the two businesses.
So any thoughts just in terms of economic sensitivity and how that's impacting things right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah it's really interesting.
I read a lot about it.
I see  I hear a lot about it.
I quoted some numbers on our U.S.
POS as measured by IRI.
Ten of 13 categories increasing market share sell-out up over 8% in nine of those 13 categories.
So I've always had this point of view that ideas trump the macros that it's our responsibility as a consumer brand company to bring ideas to market and leverage our brands with the right kind of support behind them to trump whatever environment we're in.
And our growth of 4.1% in the U.S.
and 8.8% in the U.S.
including acquisitions should be good testimony to that.
I don't see any impact in  from a consumer perspective in the growth of our categories where we can measure that through IRI.
I just don't see an impact at this point.
The only business in our portfolio that had been sensitive to this has been the industrial products and services business where as I said we went from high single digit growth in 2014 to essentially slight growth in 2015.
And I previously commented that that trend began in about October of 2014.
And so we see that's probably the only piece of our portfolio that is cyclical as our businesses evolved over the last number of years.
We are far less cyclical than we were when we started and we're more consumer-driven than we were then.
And we have way more brand support behind our brands such that they can absorb the macro cycles a lot better than they could in the past.
But at the moment I don't see the slowdown in markets or in the macros and I don't see our customers really behaving in a particularly defensive way like they did in 2009 during the recession.
So you don't hear us talking about the  a macro issue with the exception of Brazil where it's a combination of GDP slowdown and the currency impact on the business and the need for us to price to protect margins and cover the transaction forex effect and the intersection of that with a slower economy creating pressure on volumes.
So that's most important to our Tools business.
It's certainly a factor that's influenced our Tools performance in 2015 and the most sensitive portion of our Tools business to that type of environment is the industrial products and services segment of that business.
Great.
And then just a quick follow-up.
You guys tweaked the language a little bit on synergies but it doesn't appear that you're adding in like you said you're not adding in the revenue synergies et cetera.
So just any color in terms of the little tweak in language in terms of saying at least $500 million? And that's it for me.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I mean the way I'd answer that is when we look at Project Renewal and what's that  what that will generate by the end of 2017 we'll be somewhere around $700 million of annualized savings from Project Renewal.
We've delivered those savings on a base revenue stream that started at $5.5 billion.
So do the math on $700 million divided by $5.5 billion and then ask yourself whether $500 million on the base of $10 billion which is the pro forma size of Jarden is conservative or not conservative.
So we've made a commitment to $500 million.
We believe there probably is more.
If we find more which I expect we will likely do over time as we did with Project Renewal.
Remember it was a sequential series of unpacking of the cost structure at Newell Rubbermaid.
But if we do find more a portion of that money will be invested back into the business for accelerated performance either in capabilities or in brand support on the Jarden businesses and some will flow to margin beyond the $500 million committed to as part of the deal.
The first $500 million is going to flow to margin.
What happens after that we will leverage any cost savings beyond that that we can find to put the work to set up a different strategic future for the company while also passing some back to investors so that you come along for the ride.
Great.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Kevin Grundy with Jefferies.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Kevin.
Good morning.
First if I could just start with a housekeeping question.
On the Project Renewal the $350 million can you give us an update where we are with that and then what's sort of the expectation for fiscal 2016 in terms of how much flexibility you have? That's the first part.
And then the second part on the Jarden transaction Mike it sounds like you see very little risk with respect to regulatory approval shareholder approval financing.
I want to know if that was a fair sort of characterization.
And then just the second part on the Jarden question.
Have your conversations with retailers begun to change now given the added scale particularly that's really a U.S.
mass retailer sort of comment? Have those conversations already started to change? Do you feel like you're going to see some sort of benefit there from the added scale? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah on your first question regarding Project Renewal cumulatively so the annualized savings through the end of 2015 is $360 million.
So that's banked and that's in the bank.
We have articulated a range of $625 million to $675 million in cumulative savings but I just sort of shared with you my ambition and hope is that we get closer to $700 million when it's all said and done at the end of 2017 or into early 2018.
2016 is a big year of renewal savings delivery.
We've got a lot of work that was initiated last year that flows into the P&amp;L in 2016.
We set up the transformation office in order to really establish a set of very disciplined project management capabilities.
We've got teams organized along and across many different work streams.
So we expect 2016 to be a banner year with respect to savings and it's important to the overall algorithm.
With respect to the Jarden transaction I'll pass that over to John to answer.
Sure.
Hi Kevin.
The  with respect to Jarden we don't anticipate any challenges from a regulatory standpoint or anything else.
We made good progress.
Obviously both teams have been working hard together with their outside advisors.
So we don't anticipate any challenges.
We're still marching towards closing sometime in Q2 and no red flags.
So we're in good shape.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> With respect to your question on customers it's a little early.
We're not engaging customers with one voice at this point because that would be inappropriate as two separate companies.
But the general feedback on the day the deal was announced and I know Martin got some of this feedback as well from customers from  on the announcement date and we subsequently had them in our conversations with retailers has been very very positive.
As you know the combination significantly scales our presence in a number of retailers in the U.S.
We put that into the web deck that we put together when we announced the deal.
We'll have over $2 billion of revenue at Walmart and I think we'll end up being probably a top  in the 8th or 9th position in terms of their overall suppliers.
And on the general merchandise side we'll be at the top if not near the top.
I think that's very exciting.
That'll lead to a really strategic set of conversations with all of our retailers where we scale.
And the other thing about the combination of the companies is it opens up access to new channels for some categories.
So Jarden has real strength in mass sporting goods with the Coleman brand and with some of their Action Sports businesses that opens up opportunities for brands like Contigo and Avex where we probably never would have gotten to investing the SG&amp;A and selling expense to access those markets which we can now access.
And the reverse is true for Jarden.
We have tremendous scale in home centers and in hardware and in the distributive trade in the U.S.
through Commercial Products and Tools which can provide the Jarden businesses access to channels.
And so it's going to be very exciting to unlock all those opportunities.
I don't view scale at customer as being a leverage point with respect to negotiating.
Some people think oh we're going to be able to yield a bigger stick at these customers.
That's not how we think about engagement with our retail partners.
We think about building our business collaboratively.
We have a responsibility as leaders in our categories to own the development of those categories at those retailers and of course we leverage our branded assets to do that.
So we build share when we do that effectively.
But we  share accountability with our retail partners for developing the size of the pie the size of the categories.
And that's how we approach our relationships and we expect the combination to now be able to do that across a broader landscape of categories for our retail partners and through that become more of a strategic supplier to them.
So unbelievable set of opportunities connected to the selling and the potential for strengthened strategic capabilities in that space.
That's helpful color.
Thanks guys.
Good luck.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Your next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you just first talk about January sell-in and sell-through trends? And then usually you give us sort of like some color on the quarterly cadence of earnings.
Is there anything funky to pay attention to this year? And then I have a follow-up on the deal.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I gave you some color on quarterly flow in Q1 and that I gave you the Venezuelan impact.
If we had not deconsolidated Venezuela in 2016 would have been worth $0.03 to $0.04 in Q1.
So that's some color on flow.
I didn't give you the numbers for year ago but that's slightly more than what Venezuela contributed in the year-ago period.
So there's a little bit of color.
We're pretty bullish on what the first half of the year has to offer because a lot of our new items ship in the first half of the year.
So Rubbermaid FRESHWORKS goes InkJoy Gels go in the first quarter.
We had good performance last year; very very good sellout performance.
So we don't enter the year  you can see it in our receivables numbers.
You didn't see tremendous movement in our receivables numbers year-over-year.
So that's a good sign that inventories have come down in the fourth quarter retail inventories have come down in the fourth quarter.
That's true in a number of places I suspect.
And the kind of POS and sellout that we've got going on is really encouraging.
We should have very good  with good sell-through comes good sell-in and that's set up well.
We will spend more in Q1 than we did year-ago from an A&amp;P perspective with stronger innovation and so we're set up for a good first quarter I think.
And obviously the proof of the pudding is in the eating and it's not even really the end of January yet but the green light's in the engine room.
So there are always things that you've got challenges that you've got to overcome and undoubtedly we will have those to deal with this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then just on the Jarden deal can you just  just housekeeping items like what your assumption is on the interest rate on the debt.
I think before you said it was plus or minus 3.5%.
And then would you ever consider doing like an incremental equity deal to sort of accelerate the deleveraging? How long you think it's going to take to get to 3.5 turns of leverage? Maybe like the broader macro assumptions as you kind of did your deal math.
And then lastly  I know there's a lot of questions here but what the tax rate we should use for the pro forma company? Hey Bill.
It's John.
So with respect to the debt there's a couple of moving pieces but overall the term loan is locked.
And that rate's roughly for your modeling 2% to 2.2% it's a variable rate instrument.
The public debt that Mike was talking about earlier right now we originally said yes where we modeled 4%.
Credit spreads have moved but there's still a lot of moving pieces.
So we don't know where the tenor will be or how much will go with variable rate debt overall.
So there's still a lot of work to do.
But we're not too worried about the creep off of the 4% on the public portion of the debt.
So that part is again work in process.
And there is as you know a lot of market volatility between now and the time that we ultimately go to market.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then how about like the timing to get to the 3.5 leverage ratio and the macro assumptions underlying the deal and then just the pro forma tax rate if you have it? Yeah so we can  we get to that ratio we're committed.
So part of the reason why we structured the deal we did is a term loan's a three-year instrument that we have to pay down the $1.5 billion that I mentioned earlier in my script.
And so part of that is a commitment.
So we get down to that 3 times to 3.5 times two years to three years.
Right now we've modeled in a number of sensitivities.
So we're very comfortable that 2.5 years from now we'll be back in that range give or take absent some massive change in the underlying economic culture of the world overall.
So we have good shape in terms of that.
With respect to tax right now obviously I think the easiest thing to do is model just the blended tax rate between the two companies but there is opportunity.
Now none of that's reflected as Mike said in the synergy numbers that he's talked about and so forth and we're excited about bringing Jarden in together with us in terms of what we can do with some of our tax structures and so forth.
So we definitely see upside on that.
But it will take some time obviously to get the two companies together and into one tax system.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So we're going to push to get to delever as quickly as we can.
If you look at our numbers and you probably haven't had time to kind of plow through them all we've got EBITDA of around $900 million in for Newell and Jarden is  you can figure out what Jarden is.
And with synergies coming perhaps a little bit quicker than what was modeled we'll be very quickly approaching $3 billion of EBITDA.
And so we're going to have lots of flexibility to pay down the debt quickly and we will want to do that.
That's the commitment we've made to get back into the range of 3 times to 3.5 times within two years to three years but I'm hoping we can do that closer to the two years than to the three years.
With respect to the other issues on potential derailers that could undermine that I really don't see them because we've been so conservative in the assumptions we've made on the timing of synergies the growth rate that we built into the model.
So the tax opportunities the working capital opportunities we should have some quick wins there that are not built into the deal economics.
And it's just going to take a little bit of time to get our arms around that once we're able to more openly engage with each other but not much time.
We'll want to go for that type of stuff quite quickly.
The other thing to recognize is that the leverage ratios look high at the beginning in part because of the timing of the year we're doing this deal.
Right? So Q1 is probably the worst moment to try to convert a deal like this with  given the flow of cash flow for both companies.
So the optics of our leverage ratios are pretty high probably half a click high at the end of the first quarter versus what they will quickly be over the next few quarters.
So there's all those dynamics in place.
We've made a commitment to get down to 3 times to 3.5 times.
We're going to do that in a focused way.
We are prioritizing capital allocation to that outcome.
And the only exception to that is the CapEx assumptions we've got in the business which we have not compromised on CapEx investment on either business.
We've blended the base plans and we won't pull back on that front.
And you should expect on the Newell Rubbermaid side for us to be spending around $200 million in CapEx this year maybe slightly above that.
And then on the dividend we have assumed that we maintain Newell's current dividend of $0.76 per share obviously across a higher share count which means more cash out for that in the combination but we believe that's an important element of our capital allocation strategy that will be and should be preserved.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just on the equity raise would you maybe think about raising equity if it'd accelerate the deleveraging process? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's not in our line of sight right now.
And doing an equity deal not in our line of sight right now.
We're going to be really focused on executing both companies' plans.
Obviously there's  if we get good momentum in the core of the business we can think of different options as we come into 2017.
But our focus right now will be on execution.
For the deal execution of the individual business plans delivery of the EBITDA progression that's built into those two plans and it's in the deal economics and playing for more EBITDA if we can find it either through acceleration of the synergies or through accelerated growth in the businesses or through other means of influencing gross margin development which are also available to us.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much guys.
And your next question comes from Jason Gere with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Just a couple of questions.
One just in the six weeks since you've announced the deal Mike maybe can you talk a little bit about what has surprised you more on the upside of this deal? Obviously I know it came together over the fall kind of quickly.
But  and within that what should we anticipate when you guys talk at CAGNY? Will some of the  maybe the integration team members be with you just to get a better sense of the deal and investors getting more comfortable with it? That's the first question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I don't think you should expect us to go deep into the integration at CAGNY because again we will not be combined at that point the two companies.
We will lay out where we see the opportunities and those opportunities will be articulated based on the thinking that went on in the fall and conversations that have happened with senior management since that time.
But the planning stages are early on.
It's a little premature for us to be doing a deep dive on exactly what we're going to do when in a couple of weeks.
That said I'll lay it out.
I'll visually present what I just described to you in the earnings call in a little bit more detail to give you some evidence of where the opportunities are and talk about the ambition we have for the business.
But I would expect the more detailed discussion to happen after the shareholder votes and after the transaction is consummated.
That's when we'll get into some far more detail.
Our focus though will be on engaging both sides of the house in understanding where their business opportunities are learning the Jarden businesses and then after a period of work and thinking about those bringing that back together into an integrated approach and strategy for the company.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Of course we'd provide guidance for 2016 revised guidance for 2016 and we will provide perspective on the out years once the transaction's completed.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's fair enough.
And then I guess the other question.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the competitive landscape maybe in the U.S.
Yeah especially as I think the economy is a little bit more skid-ish you're seeing a little bit of commodity deflation coming through.
I know it may not affect you directly as it does other staple companies but I'm just wondering if you could talk about any categories where you might be seeing a little bit more pressure or competitors trying to this thwart the innovation that you're bringing out.
And within that point I know you kind of gave us the outlook for Tools for 2016 but I was just wondering if maybe you can kind of give us a framework for core sales in the other segments too.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we typically don't guide core sales by segment but I think you should expect Writing to have another very good year albeit without the benefit of Venezuela.
You should expect Baby to have a very good year as well.
We've got terrific momentum there with great innovation coming.
Commercial products I think you should expect another year of good progress.
And you'll see probably the most change in Home Solutions where Rubbermaid has a whole series of innovations that are coming to market like FRESHWORKS like Fasten+Go which is effectively taking our LunchBlox concept and executing an adult version of a lunchbox for work.
And so that'll come.
And then in the back half of the year we've got another exciting food storage innovation that I won't disclose now that really will be very very cool and fun to see how consumers respond to.
So we've got three big innovations in Rubbermaid coming this year.
We've got a big year on beverages as we continue to develop and build the Contigo Avex bubba and Rubbermaid brands in this space so  and Calphalon is going  Calphalon and Goody will go through complete relaunches.
We saw some weakness in Calphalon in the fourth quarter as we're transitioning out of product lines and into new product lines which start flowing in here in the middle of Q1.
So we've got a full facelift going on on Calphalon and we've got the Goody brand relaunch which is set for the second quarter of this year.
So I think Home Solutions will probably be the place where you see the most change.
We will continue in the  to continue to optimized Rubbermaid consumer business by continuing to pull back on consumer storage the less profitable end of that business.
So some of the positives that I was just referring to will be partially offset by continued contraction in that portion of the business as we look to reposition the Rubbermaid brand to play in areas where the brand can be differentiated.
And through differentiation comes higher gross margins.
Through margins comes higher affordability to invest and really create the renaissance in Rubbermaid that we hope to deliver over the next couple of years.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And your next question comes from Joe Altobello with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Hey guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Joe.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick ones.
I guess first and Mike you sort of touched on this earlier.
In terms of the need to invest behind the Jarden brand it sounds like you don't see a big catch-up period here given that the first $500 million of cost save will drop to the bottom line effectively.
But how do you think about your need to invest behind the Jarden brands? And secondly how does the acquisition impact your goal of getting to A&amp;P spend of about 7% of sales? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So yeah let me take the second part of the question first.
The acquisition will not impact our drive to get the Newell Rubbermaid portfolio to 7% of sales.
As I said in 2016 we'll get that ratio up to 5%  probably around 5.5%.
And so we continue on that journey to the 7% threshold.
And we think that happens in 2018 maybe a little bit of a bleed over into 2019 depending on how the renewal cost savings flow through to the P&amp;L.
So we don't see any interruption in that drive.
On the Jarden businesses we're just getting to know these businesses.
I will tell you all you have to do to understand the Jarden businesses and whether they have the algorithm right is look at 5.9% core sales growth through the nine-month period in 2015.
That would suggest that there are a lot of things going right in these businesses.
Of course we believe in brands.
And if we can find the flexibility beyond the first $500 million to find savings we're going to want to invest back into brands.
We believe that our design capability which is enabling the step-up in innovation on the Newell Rubbermaid side of the family is applicable more broadly across more categories.
In order to fund that we'll have to invest some money to extend the shoulders of that capability to be able to potentially help some of the Jarden businesses but  and of course if we're going to  if we can strengthen innovation in these businesses through that design capability we're going to want to put advertising and promotion money behind it to stimulate awareness and trial of the new ideas.
But I think if there was a place where you could or should expect us to explore investing it's in that area.
And we of course across the total landscape are going to continue to invest in eCommerce.
For Newell Rubbermaid in the fourth  in the full year our eCommerce contribution in the U.S.
to our POS growth was something close to 14% which if you go all the way back to our Analyst Day in May of 2012 you can look at what we quoted there as the contribution to revenue.
And you see this big step up.
That's in part a function of the investments we've made.
We expect to make investments across the total enterprise in eCommerce.
We'll fund that through any savings that comes beyond the $500 million.
Now unlike what we did with Project Renewal where the first couple of tranches of savings went fully back into the business you should not expect us to do that with anything beyond the $500 million that we find.
Some of this is going to flow back to investors for margin development beyond what we've committed to with the first $500 million and some of it will flow back into the business.
How that ratio breaks down yet to be determined.
We have a lot of work to do to understand the opportunities.
I had the opportunity to meet Hope Margala and her team up at Yankee last week just to say hello and get to know them.
They've got all kinds of really interesting things going on there.
And so I suspect as we get into these businesses we will see and find all kinds of opportunities that hopefully by bringing the companies together we'll be able to plus up just like Jarden has historically done as it has bought businesses and integrated into the company.
And look at the progress on Yankee.
I used to be on the board there in 2005 2006.
They've got a big dynamic business in Europe that didn't exist when I was there.
And that's happened since the Jarden acquisition.
So there's plenty of evidence that that work is already underway and the question is can you overlay more funds to really unlock the upside in any of those areas that are particularly attractive? And again too early to say where you'd place those bets or whether you can find the money beyond the $500 million although our judgment tells us there's more to be found there.
And we should go get that money so we can put it back into the business for growth acceleration.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Very helpful.
Thanks Mike.
And your next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Wendy.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
So could you talk a little bit about Writing and the operating margins there? I know you talked about both foreign exchange and a higher investment spending pressuring the op margin in the fourth quarter.
But it's been a while since we've seen op margins go down to the tune of 200 bps so  and I know it's only one quarter and still for the year they were up but I'm just wondering kind of where we are with your commitment to higher spending going forward with the China launch and all that kind of good stuff.
Just on that business specifically do you think 25% is kind of the right/peak operating margin or do you still think there's room for margin expansion ahead? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look in any given quarter the margin will flow depending on how much investment we've put in.
Yeah we said we spent more money in A&amp;P than we were planning on spending in the quarter and Writing was the beneficiary of that which should almost always is.
The  but we don't have a target margin for businesses.
I mean anything over 20% in my experience is a really exciting place to be because if you grow you really create a ton of value.
So I don't  but I don't envision us drifting down to that level.
But I also don't want to target and peg 25% operating income margin as a target margin for the Writing business because I feel like we might constrain the opportunities for growth.
As we move Writing into new geographies there's sort of an SG&amp;A bubble you have to accept in front of the  ahead of the revenue stream.
And our ambition is to deploy this portfolio as broadly as it is relevant to deploy it over the next five to ten years.
So there will be periods where there's a cost of growth associated with that choice that'll be covered by some other business just like you saw some of the businesses cover Tools investment in 2014.
You see other businesses covered Baby investment at the beginning of this year.
We'll now see Baby margins come back to fund other investments in Home Solutions.
And so we manage this money very dynamically and we don't let it get trapped in any particular segment.
The leadership team allocates resource and in any given period operating  you should expect the operating income margins to flex up and down depending on what investment plans we're making.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Got it.
And to the point of sort of your ability to I don't know reallocate resources and manage it all I think you've talked in the past how SAP has helped to a certain extent and how you expect SAP will help more going forward.
But specifically to the Jarden transaction I think one of the concerns that I've heard from investors is just the complexity of that business and the scope and the breadth and all of that.
So can you tell us are they on SAP? How quickly do you think it will take to bring them onto your systems so that you can preserve that great sense of management of the numbers and management of the business? And then just the last thing on that transaction specifically obviously investors have kind of shown that there's a fair amount of concern about the transaction and all of that.
Can you address internally within Newell what the response among the employees has been to the transaction? Obviously Tarchetti's excited about it but what about everybody else? Do they feel like you're going down a different path than they thought you were? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's a great question.
Let me answer that one last then maybe John can provide some perspectives so that it's not biased by me because I'm obviously very excited about it too.
I think people are really energized by this because they've seen what's happened here and they now  most people are probably thinking gosh there's all kinds of opportunity for me personally to go work in different types of businesses over time.
And I get the sense there's a lot of excitement about this.
The group's been through a ton of change so they understand how to  and they're resilient as all heck to be able to absorb the rhythm of change that we've had over the last number of years.
But there's a lot of excitement.
There's pride in the fact that we're creating something big and special that could really be very very exciting.
But maybe John you should answer that last part rather than me.
Sure.
So Wendy I'll add some color in a second.
With respect to the systems so part of Jarden is on a version of SAP but we're fairly comfortable that we'll be able to get them and get our arms around their systems relatively quickly.
Obviously they have a great business and they've run their business extremely well so they certainly understand their numbers.
And we're encouraged coming in that we can kind of get to a common nomenclature and common vocabulary relatively quickly.
Our IT guys are really excited to work with them.
And certainly I think we can give them some perspective on things that have worked well for us.
As Mike said it's really consistent with taking the best of both companies.
So we also have some things I'm sure we can learn about them and get a little more leverage out of our systems overall.
So comfortable to get our arms around the business fairly quickly and certainly in our meetings with them they clearly have their arms around the business so we're very comfortable with that.
In terms of the excitement certainly it's not something I think that many of the employees expected but we're excited.
We're excited about the progress that certainly Mike and the team has made over the past five years to put us in this position to be able to rewrite the future for this company.
And that's what people are mostly excited about now.
We look at the opportunity now with Jarden and things that we think we can do as we broadened our set of capabilities across a number of different new categories and new brands.
And as Mike said as well as the synergies places where Jarden has been very successful and we haven't been as successful in certain channels.
So there's a lot of excitement.
We know it's going to be a lot of work.
It's been a lot of work for a number of people for the past three months to four months but it's going to be a great combination overall.
So it's  we're a little bit disappointed.
Maybe some people don't see it that way but for us we only see upside.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think the market's reaction I'm not even going to focus on it to be honest with you because the opportunity is in front of us.
It's not in the moment.
And so the opportunity is to bring this combination together and create the value release that will naturally occur but more importantly strategically to create one of the leading consumer-branded companies in the world and certainly a leader in the durable space where nobody's going to be able to have the capabilities we have.
We'll have the affordability to invest in a really advantaged set of branded development capabilities that should enable us to trump the competition.
We'll compete in category.
Country sales against lesser competition is quite small.
So if we want  if we  as we set this company up to be managed the way we manage things today where we  a senior group of people leaders from each of the business has come together every year to allocate resource as we allocate those against the businesses with the greatest right to win we should see really tremendous release of value and growth.
And that will create a very very exciting story going forward.
We're on a risk-on scenario and a risk-off environment at the moment because of the leverage that we need to raise to bring these two companies together.
And that is why we have the clarity the security and the sense of what will happen next to give us the confidence that what we've said about maintaining investment grade getting the deal financed getting the deal  having the deal deliver a high single-digit accretion year one and mid-teens to high-teens in year two and strong double-digit accretion in year three we have the confidence and line of sight to all the moving parts in that algorithm to give us the security that the risk-on increase is appropriate for our company.
The market doesn't have access to everything that we've got access to if we don't have the opportunity to talk as explicitly as we'd like to to the market until the transaction's consummated.
So we're in that period where there's uncertainty in a risk-off environment.
And I'm sure that's creating pressure.
We will over time in a very deliberate way articulate our vision for the company what we believe is going to be possible through the combination.
And I am certain we will find more opportunity the more time we have to engage with the partners and we  on the Jarden side.
And we intend to bring the best of both together to bear on this collection of categories that are really quite strategic.
The opportunity is quite strategic.
These are large growing categories with unconsolidated markets.
And the brand portfolio is powerful because we have leading positions in those categories.
And so there's so much roll-up potential either organically or through a combination of organic and external development that you just sort of feel like a kid in a candy store in terms of the potential opportunities ahead.
We're going to do this deliberately we're going to do this with putting the best people on the field that we can to unlock the upside and we couldn't be more excited by what's ahead.
But our line of sight goes beyond the next 90 days or 30 days it's the next three years.
And it's putting in motion the set of choices that I think we will illuminate over time for the market but we are certain we'll unlock the value we have represented to you if not more.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Terrific.
Thank you very much.
And your next question comes from Steph Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Hi.
This is Lauren Wolff.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Steph.
Hi.
This is actually Lauren Wolff calling in for Steph.
Switching gears a little bit we've seen some significant momentum over the past year within the Baby business in particular.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yup.
Do you think this level of growth is sustainable into 2016 and beyond? And would you be able to provide any additional color about the innovations that you mentioned earlier? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I wouldn't count on the 10% type of growth levels as being something that's sustainable every quarter but we've got a lot of innovation coming in Baby.
We're excited about Baby.
The combination actually potentially brings together some really exciting opportunities particularly with NUK and Baby Jogger.
And there are a couple of European soothing businesses as well that Jarden has.
So we've got some tremendous opportunity here.
We love our Baby business.
It's a different business than the rest in that on our side of the family we've outsourced the manufacturing to a strategic partner.
So our gross margins are dilutive to the total company performance.
But because we don't own the assets our return on invested capital is quite high.
It's just next to Writing in terms of its value-creation potential if we grow.
So when you grow Writing  when you grow Baby you create a ton of value for investors to the ROIC and RONA return on net assets is so high just shy of Writing's levels.
And Writing's levels are margin-driven Baby's levels are driven by the absence of fixed assets in a very short value chain because most of our retail partners many of them DI direct import from the point of departure in Asia.
So we have a very short value chain inventory chain.
So this is a great business.
We expect to grow it.
I think if I were building a model for the next number of years I'd be building sort of mid-single digit growth.
There will be a moment in time when China opens up as a huge market.
There is now car seat legislation in place not yet being enforced but that will create a car seat market over time.
And when that happens we want to be right in the middle of the growth that will come with Baby gear.
Our business is sourced from China so we've got great presence there.
So that if and when that market opens we will be in a position to participate in a more material way than we do today.
But that will  when that moment comes that will trigger a different level of growth for the company in that segment.
So I think the right planning stance is mid-singles.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And your next question comes from Linda Bolton Weiser with B.
Riley.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Linda.
Hi.
Can you just comment? You named a few things about why operating cash flow was down year-over-year? Can you remind us how did the $566 million do relative to your original guidance range? And then do you have some guidance on that for 2016 excluding Jarden? And to meet those leverage ratio targets do you think you're going to have to step up initiatives like on working capital? Or do you think you can just get to those leverage ratios kind of status just kind of operating cash flow without any special efforts in the working capital area? Sure.
Good morning Linda.
So we generally don't guide with respect to operating cash flow overall.
So we won't give you any guidance numbers for 2016 or 2015.
I will give you an explanation where we landed for 2015 versus 2014.
Essentially we were up about 2% if you take out the $70 million pension payment that we made in 2015 to get our pension plan up to about a 93% funded status.
And then we had a little more cash spend on Project Renewal and some other restructuring costs overall.
In terms of focus on cash going forward the model was built without any working capital improvements but there are plenty of working capital improvements for the transaction as well as on our side.
As we've talked about before our inventories we can do a little better job on.
Overall we've built some inventories this year for growth and so forth but we know we can do a better job managing inventories as well as managing the other pieces of working capital.
So that will be a focus.
It'll be part of our incentive plan next year that we talked about because of the importance of delivering on cash.
Overall for us in terms of getting down our leverage ratio down as Mike said as quickly as we reasonably can to the 3 times to 3.5 times ratio.
But again good focus on cash.
So we made good progress in Q4 as well on inventory so I'm relatively comfortable that we have line of sight to a another strong year for 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Just to punctuate the point John made we've recommended to the board that our 2016  the Newell Rubbermaid 2016 bonus program the short-term incentive program include a component on operating cash flow.
And so obviously cash flow matters a lot and operating cash flow matters a lot in the context of this deal.
So we will put some skin in the game for our employees with respect to really moving the needle on operating cash flow.
Like John said we don't guide but you can be assured it's going to be a focal point for us.
There's a lot of opportunity in working capital as I've said over time and this is the time to go get it.
We have not assumed any benefit we've just blended the programs that existed from both companies in our geoeconomic assumptions.
So you can rest assured cash is king in the coming years and really ought to be all the time.
And you should expect us to really move the needle on this over time.
And again I think we've got a very clear line of sight to being able to get down into the leverage ratio range that we've committed to.
And I'm hopeful that we can do that closer to the two-year horizon than the three-year horizon.
But our commitment is to do that within two years to three years.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yep.
And your next question comes from Steve Powers with UBS.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Steve.
Hey.
Great.
Thanks.
Maybe just carry on the cash theme.
Can you talk a little bit about how the deconsolidation of Venezuela impacts the operating cash flow sources and uses outlook that you'd communicated back in September? I mean obviously FX has shifted as well but you had said about $5 billion between 2016 and 2020 with about $2.4 billion sort of uncommitted after CapEx and dividends and base-level repurchases.
I'm just curious obviously before considering Jarden if the outlook is materially different now with Venezuela carved out? Yeah.
So with respect to the cash generation the sources and uses the cash flow write-off for us going forward the difference will be about $50 million on an annual basis.
So it doesn't materially change the numbers that we've put together in terms of the sources and uses of cash overall.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And the other thing I'd say is that all the modeling we did with the rating agencies all the modeling we did on the geoeconomics assumed Venezuela out.
So everything that we've articulated externally excludes Venezuela.
All right.
That's great.
Thank you very much.
And then just I guess one clean-up on Writing if I could.
So I think growth in the segment was about 6% this quarter ex Venezuela you can correct me if that's wrong and I think you said high single digits in North America which implies that growth kind of internationally ex Venezuela was very modest.
And just any commentary on that and how you expect sort of North America versus international to trend in 2016 that'd be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so we have three different Writing businesses.
We have a Fine Writing business we have the DYMO business which gets consolidated in our Writing segment and then what we call Writing &amp; Creative Expression.
Writing &amp; Creative Expression is growing very very well.
This is where Sharpie and Paper Mate and Expo and Prismacolor they all live in that cluster.
Fine Writing has been less positive the growth rate.
And your observation is accurate.
Growth in Europe was not as strong as we believe it can be over time in part because WACE growth or Writing &amp; Creative Expression growth was offset by Fine Writing declines.
And so we're in the midst of repositioning our Fine Writing portfolio in Europe pulling back on some of the low-end portions of that portfolio so that we focus brands like Parker and Waterman on the high-end portions of that portfolio.
So that is what contributed to Europe's sort of modest Writing results.
Terrific growth on Writing &amp; Creative Expression in markets like the UK and in France offset by Fine Writing contraction in the same geographies.
Over time you should expect our Writing business to become more dominant and present in the core which is Writing &amp; Creative Expression.
We've got a terrific plan in place for our Writing business in 2016.
I think you should plan for like performance in your models for 2016 as we delivered in 2015 ex Venezuela.
And while we haven't quoted a specific number for Writing ex Venezuela and you shouldn't expect us to you're in the general ballpark with your analysis.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Helpful.
And your final question comes from Rupesh Parikh with Oppenheimer.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Rupesh.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for fitting me in.
So my first question Mike has to do with innovation.
Throughout the call you made a lot of commentary about all the innovation you expect this year.
Is there any way to quantify the impact of innovation this year maybe versus a prior year? And a follow-up question as consumers continue to migrate more online to buy their products how does your delivery of innovation change with that dynamic of consumers buying more online? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So great questions.
I'll give you some perspective on innovation.
So when we evaluate the impact that innovation's having in our business we look at what we call the vitality rate or the innovation rate and we measure innovation rate as the percentage of our revenue that's been touched by innovation launched in the last three years.
And when we started in 2013 with the new model our innovation rates were quite low in the low teens type of level.
And as we enter 2016 we're getting very close to what we have as our long-term objective for the innovation rate which is 30%.
And so this is a vitality rate or an innovation rate that the best consumer goods companies would consider the gold standard.
And we're well on our way to getting there.
We will get there in 2016 with the pipeline of ideas that are coming to market.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then maybe just one housekeeping question.
Is it possible to get the 2015 gross margin rate and SG&amp;A margin rate excluding Venezuela? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We don't typically communicate that but I'll let Nancy  and you guys try to triangulate around what that would be.
But the way you should think about it it's not that big of a deal with respect to its impact on overall margins.
It may be slightly  it may hurt us a bit on operating margin but not at gross margin.
So I think it actually may help us with VZ out of gross and hurt us with the operating income margin because we don't spend a ton of money in A&amp;P there.
But just modestly not as much as you might think.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Polk for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Well thanks very much LeeAnn and thank you to all on the call for your interest in our company.
And most important thank  importantly thank you to all the Newell people who work tirelessly to make these results happen.
And to our future colleagues at Jarden who have worked tirelessly as well over the last few months with our team to pull this transaction together I think together we're going to make a great team.
Thank you very much.
A replay of today's call will be available later today on our website newellrubbermaid.com.
This concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.