Good day and welcome to The New York Times First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Paula Schwartz Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Keisha and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We have several members of our senior management team here to discuss the results with you including Janet Robinson President and CEO; Jim Follo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Scott Heekin-Canedy President and General Manager of The Times; and Martin Nisenholtz Senior Vice President of Digital Operations.
All of the comparisons on this conference call will be for the first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2010 unless otherwise stated.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2010 10-K.
Our presentation will also include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com.
Now I will turn the call over to Janet.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
Our operating performance reflects the continuing transformation of our company which intercepted with an important milestone in the first quarter.
While the challenges for our company and for the larger economy are not yet behind us the recent launch of subscription packages on NYTimes.com and across other digital platforms bring our plan for a new revenue stream to life.
While the advertising marketplace remains challenging we are confident that the path we have been pursuing to transform our company is the right one.
Our properties are well-positioned to continue to capitalize on the digitization of our content and this provides us with another reason for optimism about the future of our company.
In the first quarter we continued our focus on core initiatives including maintaining an unwavering commitment to our brand promise of high-quality journalism across properties highlighted recently by our four Pulitzer Prizes two for The New York Times one for The Boston Globe and one for our regional newspaper the Sarasota Herald-Tribune the first time in more than a decade that all three of our news units have won Pulitzers in the same year.
Executing on the further monetization of our digital offerings with the introduction of NYTimes.com subscription packages at the end of March a historic development for our company.
Maintaining discipline on expense controls even as we have taken out nearly 30% of our cost base over the past four years and managing our asset portfolio to maintain its alignment with our core operations and strategic initiatives leading to our opportunistic divestiture of some small portions of our investment portfolio in the first quarter.
The advertising marketplace faced increased pressure in the first quarter reflecting the uncertain economic environment recent global events and secular forces.
The volatility we saw in our business could also be witnessed in economic indicators such as from the consumer confidence index which showed strength in February but then fell in March.
As a result of these effects the 4.5% increase in our digital advertising did not fully offset the 7.5% decline in print advertising in the quarter leading to total advertising being down 4%.
Combined with the circulation decline of 4% total revenues were down 4% in the quarter.
With expenses remaining flat for the quarter our operating profit before depreciation amortization and severance decreased to $61 million in the first quarter from $83 million in the same period of 2010.
On a GAAP basis operating profit was $31 million in the first quarter compared with $53 million in the same period of 2010.
Diluted earnings per share excluding severance expenses and special items were $0.02 in the first quarter compared with $0.11 in the same period of 2010.
On a GAAP basis we reported diluted EPS of $0.04 in the quarter compared with $0.08 in the first quarter 2010 period.
As you know we introduced Times digital subscription packages in Canada in mid-March and globally at the beginning of the second quarter.
I am happy to report that the initial response is encouraging.
We are pleased with the number of subscribers we have acquired to date as initial volume has meaningfully exceeded our expectations.
In addition we have seen an increase in new home delivery orders from seven-day to weekend-only since the launch as print subscribers of all frequencies received digital access at no additional cost.
Approximately three weeks after the global launch we have surpassed 100 000 paid digital subscribers.
In addition to those loyal online readers receiving free access this year through a sponsorship from a luxury automobile manufacturer.
So soon after the launch we do not yet have visibility into conversion and retention rates for these paying customers after the initial promotional period although early indicators are encouraging.
Accordingly we expect that we will be in a better position to disclose additional details as this initiative evolves.
While the current highly-charged news cycle makes comparisons difficult declines in traffic at NYTimes.com are within our expectations.
In thinking about these declines it is important to understand that a segment of inventory on any site goes unsold on the premium market and is instead used for remnant programs or promotional house ads.
In our new online model the revenue stream we are adding direct from consumers in the form of subscriptions is balanced against the loss of some inventory that would have been sold on the remnant market.
But we fully expect to continue to meet all of the demands for premium inventory on the site.
As for ongoing operating costs associated with this initiative we expect approximately $13 million in incremental expenses for the remainder of 2011 primarily due to promotional costs.
As you recall the heart of our metered model is that users can access 20 articles for free each month but are asked to become digital subscribers once they hit that mark.
The homepage and section fronts remain browsable for free and DealBook content also remains accessible for free at this time as we are building reader loyalty to this recently relaunched product.
We are intent on remaining part of the open web so we are welcoming visits from third parties such as search engines social networks and blogs.
And of course all home delivery subscribers receive free access to our all-inclusive digital package providing them with Times content across the website; Times tablet apps such as the iPad; and Times smartphone apps such as the BlackBerry.
We also released a major update to The Times' iPhone news application in conjunction with the digital subscription launch adding video slideshows and more blog content improved navigation tools and more opportunities for sharing.
The top news section of the app remains free to all users but access to the remainder of the app's content requires a digital subscription.
We have seen a total of 6.5 million downloads of our iPhone App since it's 2008 launch.
Our NYTimes App for the iPad is also converted to a subscription product and is available in conjunction with the digital packages.
It still offers access to more than 25 sections of Times content with the top news section remaining free for nonsubscribers and has had more than 1.8 million downloads since its original launch a year ago.
The latest version of this app has received excellent reviews and advertisers such as Salvatore Ferragamo and Ralph Lauren have leveraged our ability to create rich advertising experiences that build on unique capabilities of the device.
As a result we have commitments from a wide range of advertisers well into 2011.
We have worked closely with those clients to deliver innovative engaging advertising that readers react to and remember.
The e-reader application business has proven to be another vibrant market where consumers are willing to pay for quality content further diversifying our revenue stream and strengthening our digital businesses.
E-reader platforms that offer content from our publications include the Kindle Nook and Sony Reader.
We continue to be the top-selling newspaper on the Kindle and we have seen a 40% increase in total subscriber growth across the various devices since December.
The Kindle and the Nook also recently announced that subscribers to The Times on those devices soon will receive free access to NYTimes.com.
Another one of our strategic focuses is managing our asset portfolio which in the first quarter lent itself to some small divestitures.
We sold a portion of our indeed.com stake for a pretax gain of $5.9 million.
But we still retain a substantial portion of our initial minority interest in the job listing aggregator which is the number one job site worldwide with over 50 million unique visitors per month.
In February we also divested of our UCompareHealthCare business which fell under the above group umbrella and was sold for a nice return on our investment.
Now let me offer some more depth on our first quarter revenues.
Total revenues for the company declined 4% with advertising revenues down 4% circulation revenues down 4% and other revenues up 3%.
At the News Media Group which includes The New York Times New England and Regional Media Groups continued strength in digital advertising which was up 15% could not offset the softness in print advertising.
The group's total advertising revenues which declined 4% year-over-year in the quarter declined 5% in January were up 4% in February and declined 9% in March a pattern that exemplifies the volatility in the marketplace that I referred to earlier.
Digital advertising remain resilient led by growth in national display.
We also saw gains in retail display as well as in two of the major classified advertising categories automotive and real estate.
By total advertising category national revenue was down 2% retail was down 9% and classified was down 6%.
Within the classified area recruitment was up 2% automotive was flat and real estate declined 10%.
Breaking down the News Media Group into its component properties at the Times Media Group advertising revenues were down 2% in the quarter as growth in digital display was more than offset by print declines.
Combined print and digital national advertising was down slightly national advertising categories experiencing the largest declines were media resulting from significant comparisons related to retransmission wars of 2010; hotels where anticipated spending for major change was pushed until later in the year; and studio entertainment driven by fewer new releases and adjustments to marketing spend based on box office results.
Digital experienced strong gains in studios however including Web display and iPad sponsorships.
National ad categories where we saw the largest combined gains were international and American fashion as well as the luxury segment continues to post solid gains due to domestic and European designers and luxury watches; technology where a combination of cross-platform branding and continued influx of new tablets and smartphones presents great advertising opportunities; and financial services driven primarily by mutual fund companies and private wealth management firms.
In addition the expanded DealBook franchise is proving to be an attractive environment for financial and other national advertisers.
Aggregate retail advertising declined despite strong digital growth the business and economic uncertainty in the marketplace associated with the Middle East unrest rising oil prices and the crisis in Japan increased in the first quarter particularly in March.
This dynamic had more of an impact on print while digital continued to grow.
Aggregate classified advertising declined as gains in recruitment led by a pickup in the financial and technology jobs sectors were offset by declines in the real estate and automotive categories.
Growth in real estate display driven largely by the Manhattan real estate rental market was offset by declines in aggregate listings.
Classified automotive advertising revenues continued to be affected by macroeconomic issues.
The company remains aggressive in advertising product innovation building premier positions across all modes of delivery.
About three quarters of The Times' top 100 print advertisers also spend online.
NYTimes.com especially continues to be a leader in brand advertising and marketers come to us for our reach the quality of our audience and our ability to create and execute unique campaigns.
The site has made bold moves on the advertising front particularly on the homepage where we have managed to balance a greater user experience with a greater advertiser experience.
Premium advertisers such as Gucci Lincoln and Microsoft have made NYTimes.com their first destination for breaking digital advertising campaigns.
Innovation also came in the print form during the quarter as The New York Times Magazine launched a redesign under new editor Hugo Lindgren in March featuring a revamped layout as well as a variety of new features including a regular column from Times Executive Editor Bill Keller.
Readers and advertisers have both responded positively and we have seen strong showings in the weeks since the redesign from categories such as healthcare real estate and financial services.
This strength in the main magazine combined with the growth in our T Magazine led to a double-digit increase in advertising revenue across Times Magazine products in the first quarter.
Last month we also launched our own initiative in the group buying space with Times Limited which is an extension of what we have been doing for our long history as a company connecting local businesses with readers.
Our deals have curated with our specific audience in mind and so far have included retailers such as the Italian marketplace Eataly and the famed restaurant 21 Club both in Manhattan.
Our high-quality advertisers are welcoming the opportunity to work with The Times in providing these exclusive offers which focus on premium products and experiences and are being provided for limited time and in limited qualities (sic) [quantities].
We believe The Times is uniquely positioned to thrive in this specific niche of an increasingly popular marketplace.
At the New England Media Group advertising revenues declined 5% in the quarter due to weaknesses in print advertising.
Digital ad revenues showed strong growth reflecting increases in a variety of online categories including national retail and classified automotive.
Combined print and online national advertising was down led by declines in the telecom national auto and packaged good categories offset in part by increases in travel financial services and museum advertising.
Total retail advertising revenues were also lower led by softness in categories including department stores home furnishings and general merchandise offset in part by increases in the electronic and appliance category.
Aggregate classified advertising declined overall but saw solid gains in automotive reflecting strength across both print and digital platforms.
In the second half of this year The Global split its digital brand into two keeping boston.com free while launching a subscription pay site bostonglobe.com.
The Boston Globe and boston.com are very strong brands in the marketplace.
And based on extensive research we believe those brands offer us an opportunity in the digital arena to meet the media needs of two distinct audiences.
The addition of bostonglobe.com provides advertisers a new avenue to reach an affluent educated audience in a distinctive online environment where we expect readers will take the time to read full articles.
bostonglobe.com will include content published in The Globe along with breaking news throughout the day as well as original video photo galleries and interactive features.
boston.com will continue to be the best place to learn what is happening in the Boston area and will offer users a place to get a quick read of news along with breaking news and sports coverage from the globe.
At the Regional Media Group advertising revenues decreased 10% due to weakness in print advertising particularly in the retail category.
On the digital side the group saw a growth in national and retail display as well as in automotive and recruitment classified categories.
At the larger News Media Group circulation revenues were down 4% due to print volume declines across the group.
According to our latest internal statistics in the first quarter The Times’ net paid circulation averaged 905 000 on weekdays down 4% from the first quarter of 2010 and 1.3 million on Sundays down 3%.
Looking ahead we will continue to evaluate our circulation pricing in coordination with our overall multi-platform strategy.
And as you know the launch of digital subscriptions at NYTimes.com and soon bostonglobe.com introduces a second digital revenue stream to the mix.
As I mentioned earlier in my remarks we have also seen an uptick in print circulation orders at The Times early in the second quarter.
In November we launched a significant expansion of our popular DealBook site at NYTimes.com more than doubling our staff in that area along with our ability to cover breaking financial news for a high-level audience of key suite executives and decision makers.
Since the relaunch Dealbook's online traffic has seen significant year-over-year gains on a monthly basis.
In March for instance it had another record breaking month nearly doubling its page views versus March 2010.
In March we added another layer of personalization to NYTimes.com with the launch of the recommendations feature which points readers to articles based on what they have read in the past month and further deepens engagement on the site.
A dashboard available through article pages gives users a view of their recent reading history including a tally of the articles they have read on the site by section such as Business day and world.
And a glimpse of their most read topics for that period such as nuclear energy or the federal budget.
Based on the behavior captured in the dashboard recommendations also suggests current articles that may be of interest.
These digital efforts along with many others have helped to ensure that NYTimes.com remains the most trafficked newspaper site in the United States with about 38 million unique visitors in March.
That number grows to nearly 62 million uniques when you look at the site's global audience.
Expanding our reach has ultimately driven our efforts to grow our audience in print online mobile e-readers tablets social media and other products.
In particular during the past couple of years The Times has launched a number of mobile products such as our iPhone Android BlackBerry and Pre Palm (sic) [Palm Pre] apps.
In the first quarter we averaged more than 120 million page views per month from these mobile sites and apps.
On the social media front The Times continues to interact with Twitter and is the most popular newspaper there with more than 3 million followers and with countless journalists and newsroom feeds sharing content and integrating The Times with online conversations.
And The New York Times also has a very strong following on Facebook with more than 1.2 million fans there.
Moving on to the About Group total revenues declined 10% to $31 million in the first quarter and advertising revenues also declined 10% mainly due to a decrease in cost-per-click advertising.
We have begun to execute on planned investments toward a number of strategic initiatives at About particularly to respond to some of the secular changes taking place in the search universe.
To address them About is currently expanding the volume and distribution of expert content on its platform including launching its Spanish-language channel which includes all original content and can be accessed at about.com/espanol increasing its roster of more than 800 guide sites by about 25% in popular categories such as food home health autos and parenting doubling the number of how-to videos across its 24 channels which will soon be available via YouTube and redesigning its Home Page.
Design changes in cost-per-click advertisements served by Google had a negative effect on click through rates in the quarter and we expect that to be the case through the second quarter as well.
About also experienced a moderately negative impact on page views from the algorithm changes Google implemented in the quarter.
Display advertising saw first quarter declines in categories such as retail education and home improvement but showed growth in categories including consumer packaged goods pharmaceuticals and travel.
In addition to the effects of the uneven economy and competitive market pressures About was cycling difficult comparisons with the first quarter of 2010 when total advertising grew 30%.
The About group's operating cost decreased 7% and operating cost excluding depreciation amortization and severance also decreased 7% to $14 million primarily due to the gain from the sale of UCompareHealthCare in February.
Operating profit declined 14% to $14 million in the quarter.
Nevertheless About's operating margin remains strong at 46% in the quarter.
Total revenues from all our digital businesses increased 6% in the first quarter to $96 million from $90 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Digital businesses accounted for 17% of the company's revenues in the first quarter versus 15% in the same period of 2010.
Total digital advertising revenues rose 5% to $84 million from $80 million in the prior-year period.
Digital advertising revenues continued to grow its share of revenue and made up 28% of our total ad revenues in the quarter up from 26% in the first quarter of 2010.
In March 2011 advertising revenues further softened partly due in response to the uneven economic climate.
In the first half of April we saw total advertising trends improve relative to those in March with declines at approximately the same level as in the first quarter.
Wrapping up despite the continued challenges into our business brought by the continued uneven economy and secular changes we believe the investments and initiatives we have outlined particularly in our digital businesses set the stage for our successful transition into a future where the underlying value of our content is more consistently recognized and rewarded across our platforms.
Now let me turn the call over to Jim who will give you more details on our results.
Thanks Janet.
Our emphasis on expense control remains a strategic underpinning of the business and we will continue to pursue opportunities to aggressively reduce costs.
As Janet mentioned we have taken nearly 30% or $850 million out of our cost base over the past four years all while maintaining the high quality of our award-winning journalism.
This quarter we are cycling against an 18 [ph] decline in our operating costs in the first quarter of 2010.
Operating costs were flat in the quarter despite higher promotion and newsprint expense which were offset by decreases in various other expenses.
While further expense control efforts have become more challenging we remain focused on managing our expenses to identify further efficiencies in our operations and to respond to the secular changes in our industry.
Getting to the special items our first quarter earnings were favorably affected by $0.02 per share from the sale of a portion of the company's interest in the job listing aggregator indeed.com.
EPS in the first quarter of 2010 had been favorably affected by $0.04 or gain from the sale of an asset at one of our paper mills in which the company has an investment and unfavorably affected by a $0.07 tax charge for reduction in future tax benefits for retiree health benefits resulting from the federal health care reform legislation that was enacted in March 2010.
Severance costs increased by $500 000 but were minimal in both the current and the prior years at less than $1 million in each quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was $29 million in the quarter compared to $30 million in last year's quarter.
In 2011 we expect depreciation and amortization to be between $118 million to $123 million.
Newsprint expenses increased by 13% in the quarter with a 16% increase in higher pricing offset in part by a 3% decrease in lower consumption.
Given current industry forecast for 2011 newsprint prices are expected to increase during the second half of the year.
Newsprint prices will be higher in the second quarter of 2011 as a result of prices rising steadily during the same period in 2010.
Net interest expense increased 20% in the quarter to $25 million as a result of the $225 million debt offering we completed in November.
In 2011 we expect interest expense to be between $100 million and $105 million.
Then in January 2012 our 14% notes due 2015 will be pre-payable and it's our current intention to eliminate that debt from the balance sheet at its earliest feasible date.
The joint venture lines are a $6 million loss in the first quarter.
These joint venture results were negatively impacted by Fenway Sports Group acquisition last year of Liverpool Football Club mainly due to the amortization expense associated with the purchase which we expect will impact results from joint ventures for the remainder of the year.
Income from joint ventures in the first quarter of 2010 was $9 million including a $13 million gain from the sale of the asset I've mentioned as part of last year's special items.
Turning now to our pension obligations the company made contributions of approximately $54 million in the first quarter to certain qualified pension plans.
The majority of these contributions were discretionary.
We continue to manage our liquidity position and finish the quarter with $352 million in cash and short-term investments even after making the pension contributions.
We had no outstanding borrowings excluding letters of credit under our revolving credit agreement during the quarter.
We continue to tightly manage capital spending with capital expenditures totaling approximately $10 million in the quarter.
We project capital expenditures will total between $45 million and $55 million for the year which includes investments in the digital systems across the company.
Our effective income tax rate was 21.2% in the quarter.
The rate was affected by an adjustment to reduce the company's reserve for uncertain tax positions.
In the first quarter of 2010 our effective income tax rate was 65.6% driven by the tax charge I mentioned as part of these special items.
Excluding that charge our effective income tax rate was 39.3% in that period.
We remain committed to aggressively managing operating expenses despite higher newsprint prices pension expense and promotion costs although expect operating cost to increase modestly in the second quarter.
We are well-positioned to maintain our leadership position in an increasingly digital media marketplace.
Despite the highly competitive environment and an uneven economy successful efforts across our organization to continue to introduce new revenue streams and positively impact our overall financial performance demonstrating our trademark excellence and resiliency.
And with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
The first question is just on the 100 000 subs [subscribers] that you highlighted in the release.
Am I right in assuming since they're paid subs they do not include any benefit from the Lincoln promotion or overlap with print subscribers? That's correct Alexia.
That is above and beyond the more than 100 000 that we've signaled in the press release.
And then those revenues are obviously included in circulation revenues is that fair? Well they will be going forward.
I mean this is a second quarter issue.
Yes.
Okay.
And on about.com you mentioned the ramp up in investment spending there.
Could you I guess quantify that or give us a bit more color? How should we maybe be thinking about profitably of About going forward? I think the investments at About are fairly modest and we have a great deal of flexibility in the cost structure there.
So even as we make some investments I think we have some room to continue to produce very very good operating margins.
Okay.
And then just lastly just trying to get a sense of your commentary on print advertising in the second quarter.
You said April was looking more like the trends in Q1.
The comps do look a fair bit tougher in Q2 but even with that should we assume sort of the that minus 7 decline area? Alexia this is Scott.
I think the way to look at the second quarter is to go back and understand what happened in the first quarter and this is -- Janet noted this in her remarks.
We saw an increase in total combined advertising print and digital in February after a slight decline in January and then a significant decline in March which we attribute to a change in the business climate that seemed to be tied to turmoil in the Middle East the spike in oil prices and the concerns about the implications of the crisis in Japan.
We've seen -- the climate seems to be moderating with respect to those factors in April and some help [ph] that they'll continue to moderate influencing what we might expect for revenue in the second quarter.
But I think we're prepared to make that statement only with regard to what we've seen so far in April.
And I think what we saw in March is a lesson and a good example of what happens in this advertising marketplace that the things that are happening in the larger economy and global marketplace can quickly have impact on our results on advertising spending contributing to the volatility in the marketplace and the lack of visibility.
Okay.
Thank you.
Just on that same topic the auto classified number which obviously was a highlight in the first quarter did you see some weakness in that in March as well along with the rest of the business? Or did that sort of stay strong? Well at The Times for the automotive category as a whole which includes our national brand advertising we started to see some signs of that in March and anecdotally we heard from auto manufacturers that they're viewing this environment with escalated gasoline prices and high prices in oil.
They're viewing this marketplace now with a caution that wasn't there earlier in the year.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Craig Huber with Access 342.
I got a couple of housekeeping questions.
First this pension contribution of $54 million do you anticipate having to make another contribution or you make another contribution later this year? Craig the $54 million included certain amounts -- lesser the lesser portion that was certain amount that are required to be paid into certain union pension plan.
The bulk of it was a discretionary contribution we were just really being opportunistic.
We will likely leave our options open.
We've essentially made all our required commitments to the plans as of today all the way through the end of 2012.
So I think we will reserve the right to be opportunistic as we do that.
But again as far as I said we're not required to make anything for the next -- balance of the next years.
And then my other question on this JV line you lost I think it's five point -- you lost money in that line yes about $5.7 million.
How much of that Jim was from this amortization that you guys had a book related to this Liverpool Football Club acquisition doing what Sports Ventures did? Could you ballpark that for us on quarterly basis? Let me just say that's -- I mean last year the joint venture line had a fairly large gain so if you would exclude that gain which is about $12.7 million we lost about $3.6 million in the quarter.
So I'd rather not be precise in this.
This is a private company really high-profile private company.
We'd rather not get involved with some of that.
But I'd say the performance of our -- we do expect the performance of our Forest Products Group to improve throughout the year.
And a fair amount of that additional loss would have come from that issue.
But I don't want to be more precise than I’ve just given you.
Okay.
Then if we jump over to about.com if we could do you think the entire 10% decline in about.com's revenues in this quarter was all tied to pay it's click advertising with Google? The changes there like it's annualized in the middle of this year? No.
Obviously the CPC performance at About is affected by a number of factors including ones we have been talking about now for a couple of quarters.
We referenced it -- I think Janet referenced the design change to AdSense that was mandated last year.
But in the quarter we also saw some weakness on the display side.
We had a very very significant comps to overcome in the quarter.
I think we were up 30% in that range last year.
And as others have said the climate the advertising climate for display was mixed in the quarter as some of the macroeconomic events affected the selling environment.
So the combination of that as well as the CPC impacts affected the 10% decline.
And then also what happened in your Regional Papers? They're down 9% 10% in the ad revenues in the quarter.
So I'm sure a little of that was Easter effect but anything else here? It's predominantly retail that has shown softness on the regional side.
There was some telecom softness as well Craig.
On the flip side as far as the positive categories though digital is coming on quite strong in regard to the regionals.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from John Janedis with UBS.
Thank you.
Janet over the past couple of quarters you've really called out the third month meaning I guess first December and then March as being particularly weak.
If you think it's possible that maybe some of your larger national advertisers more retailers are concerned about their expenses so they're maybe pulling back? I think you referenced Japan for March but any other possibilities given what you saw in December as well? Well it's hard to say universally what all national advertisers do in regard to the quarterly spend but I'm certain that most look at their spend during the course of the quarter and ask whether or not they should spend that particular month or save their dollars for future quarters.
And I think that it's not only dependent on the macroeconomic trends as we've noted but also in regard just to their own advertising flight packages.
I think anecdotally as we look at some of the national advertisers -- I'm going to have Scott jump in here too in a moment -- anecdotally as we look at the conversations that we're having with many of the national advertisers it's clear that the second half of the year is a very strong retail time and many of the advertisers both national-based like our luxury goods and our retail side really have to gear up for that period of the year.
So that those retail trends and that branding trends on some of the national side really dollars can be saved for that flight of spending as opposed to earlier in the year.
Let me just add to Janet's comment about the end of quarter part of your question.
I don't have any specific information from March or December but I did have conversations last year at the end of Q2 where I spoke with advertisers who said that the Greek debt crisis created uncertainty about their companies' performance and they got requests to pull back on their spending.
And that just adds to the point that I've already made that all businesses I think are very sensitive to possible shocks to the economy and they react quickly and I do think we experience the effects of that.
With regard to Janet's point about Q1 and possible implications for the rest of the year I'll reiterate that visibility isn't good but we do have some anecdote here and there that gives us a sense of the flavor of what might be in the pipeline.
Luxury advertisers as a kind of a broad generalization captures three or four of our categories international fashion American fashion fashion jewelry cosmetics had collectively in aggregate a good Q1.
And in conversations with them we understand that they think that the same dynamics will be in place for them at the rest of the year.
And along with some department stores have indicated that the second half that we might expect to see some increases in their spending.
So I think that's kind of the next point that Janet was referring to.
Thanks.
And Scott is the luxury category is it like around 12% of your advertising at this point for the New York Times? Is that a good ballpark? Yes.
That's a pretty good number.
Okay thanks.
And Jim to clarify is your operating assumption that newsprint producers will announce the further price increase and that they stick maybe this year? Because it feels like other folks out in the marketplace don't believe that and I just want to make sure I reconcile what you're talking about in terms of the view.
I think they're on the market view I think it's still that we could see some further price increases in the second half of year although that keeps on getting pushed out I admit.
I mean I think the view is that it will be early this year and that has not happened.
There has been some capacity that's been taken out recently which will go towards tightening the markets so I think a cautious view would be that there could be some.
But I do agree that it's much less certain than it was earlier in the year.
And then just maybe one last quick one.
Just back to the paid digital subs I'm not sure if you have the data but were the majority that 100 000 were they people that hit the pay wall and then paid? Or was it just folks who more or less just signed up when they saw the promotion? Or maybe can you tell us to what extent that the actual paying subs are starting at a $20 rate versus maybe the $0.99 user? We're not going into the specifics of the 100 000.
What we have said we'll reiterate that it's more than 100 000.
We're very pleased it's above expectations.
It's definitely contributing.
We see an uptick in the increase to home delivery.
What we will say is that very early on in the conversion and it is extremely early we are encouraged by the results that we're seeing from promotional offers that were out there converting to full payment.
We're not going to break out the 100 000 because it's so early in the process.
But as we noted John as this initiative evolves we're going to continue to give information to outline the progress that we're making.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Doug Arthur with Evercore Partners.
Yes.
Jim did the timing of the pay wall launch did it impact costs and how much particularly in the SG&amp;A line in the quarter? I mean you made reference to the $13 million incremental promotion for the rest of the year I guess.
I'm just particularly curious on SG&amp;A.
It should not be a factor in the first quarter.
It would be relatively minor.
That $13 million would be on a run rate basis meaningfully above the first quarter expense.
Okay.
Because I mean SG&amp;A was relatively flattish year-over-year but it did uptick quite a bit as a percent of revenues.
So is the implication that you've kind of squeezed all the costs out of the SG&amp;A that you're likely to do this cycle? Well look I did suggest that we did have a timing issue in the first quarter related to print circulation marketing.
That will reverse itself in the second -- kind of remaining three quarters of the year.
Look we acknowledge that having taken out such a big block it's getting harder.
But look despite the fact that we had some promo timing issues we had newsprint price increases we have pension working against us we're still able to manage that flat.
As you get deeper into the year some of that stuff goes away.
We think the newsprint price impact would mitigate itself.
The timing of the print circulation will reverse itself.
Now we will then start spending against our digital initiatives so that will be a go against us but I do think generally the second half of the year comps should be better than the first half.
Our next question will come from William Bird with Lazard Capital.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about just expected growth dynamics at About given the Google changes just wondering if the negative 10 is kind of a reasonable growth run rate? Yes.
Well it's really hard to give guidance on growth dynamics.
So we'll just say that -- we've said for two quarters and I suggested it in answer to another question that we have some headwinds but we're not standing still.
We're certainly improving instrumentation inside the business to make more analytically-driven choices with respect to content development.
We're continuing to improve quality which we have been investing in since we bought the business.
We're creating as Janet said more new guide sites in 2011 than we've created in any other year.
We're creating a robust Spanish-language site which she also referenced and we're rapidly ramping our video efforts.
So we've pretty much made investments in the business since we acquired it having built the sales staff there and bought businesses like ConsumerSearch improve the content quality.
But all I'm going to say is as I've said before that we do face headwinds the design change through June and we have been somewhat negatively impacted by the algorithm changes that were put in place earlier in the year.
Well one thing I would add to that though is the first half of this year the comps -- and so I think this whole display in the second quarter of last year we grew 39% we were about flat in the fourth quarter of last year on the display side.
CPC in the first quarter last year grew 31% it was actually down six in the quarter.
So the comp story gets a lot different as we get deeper into the year.
Now that being said some of the algorithm issues in the first quarter you don't comp against for a while.
So there's a lot of moving pieces here but the comps do get way easier in second half of the year.
Jim could you also talk about the tax rate? What was the size of the adjustment and what should we think about as the tax rate for the balance of the year? Look the tax rate we regularly say we haven’t moved off this number.
On every incremental dollar we bring is about 42%.
So we look at our kind of long-term tax rate is 42%.
We have historically had some reserve releases that come out of our balance sheet that have really suppressed that rate.
We haven't intended to forecast those releases in our rate but we generally look at kind of pro forma rate of 42% as the right rate to use for our business.
And Jim you spoke to just the challenge of finding more avenues for expense reduction.
Are there any other further areas where you think you might have opportunities? Yes.
But it's likely to be over a broad list of areas where I don't think I would precisely say there's one area that leads the most.
I think it's just a constant refining efficiency process here.
Again the core spending absent a couple of the call-outs pension timing on marketing spend and newsprint when you carve that out I mean it does show a fairly rigorous approach to managing those costs and so we'll continue to do that.
Pension longer-term I think we're at kind of the high watermark for pension expense this year.
Pension expense relative to last will spike but then it should recede once we get out beyond that.
But that's not really a manage issue that's more of a kind of an accounting reporting issue.
But again it is likely to be long list of categories that contribute to fairly aggressive managing.
And Jim what was the size of the print circulation marketing in the quarter that won't be repeated? About $3 million or $4 million.
But again when we get into the second quarter we'll be spending against the launch of the paid model.
So while that issue will reverse itself in the remaining three quarters not fully in the second quarter but throughout the remainder of the year.
On the print side we will then introduce and as we said in our comments is that $13 million of incremental spending.
So some of that will get introduced into our P&amp;L.
I'm not suggesting however that our costs are going to go up by $13 million there will be some offsets there as well but -- so that's the number.
Great.
And just one final.
Just to clarify.
When you talked about newsprint and you talked about kind of some outlook for newsprint does that outlook imply any assumption on the price increase? Or is it what's already happened? What we talked about was the second quarter and the only reason we have increases in the second quarter is we're comping against a rising market last year.
There has not been a newsprint price increase announced since June of last year.
So once we get into the third quarter assuming no other increases then you start comping against a flat newsprint price.
And we haven't gone beyond the second quarter here.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question will come from Leo Kulp with Citi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Two quick ones.
I know it's a little early but could you talk a little bit about the impact on the payroll on traffic and revenues at the Times website especially considering the remnant inventory issue? And then on the display weakness from the macro is that because your advertisers have just in general been spending less on display because of the events? Or is it because they're spending less because the news environment was less attractive due to those events? And if that's the case have you seen an improvement since these crises that sort of retreated from headlines? Well let me start with the traffic.
Again as we've been saying we're going to keep the comments fairly high level at this point.
We're very pleased with the progress we're making and the traffic is well within our model in terms of its delivery and performance today.
But we're three weeks into this and I don't think it's a good idea to get into too much more detail.
And so far all of the theories that we had with respect to the metered model.
How it works? How we modeled it? What its impact on premium inventory is? What its impact on remnant inventory is? All of them are above our expectations with respect to the kind of performance that we're seeing.
So just to reiterate something that Janet said in her prepared remarks we fully expect to meet any of our premium inventory needs as we go further into the year based on what we've seen to date.
Leo Scott.
If I understand your question about display correctly I'm not sure I would tie -- first of all it wasn't just display.
There were a number of categories that were affected by this climate in March.
The way I would explain it is that the news events the turmoil in the Middle East had direct impact on oil prices and then the crisis in Japan raised questions about the strength of the economy and consumer confidence and business confidence whether these events would have a significant impact on the economy and I think now that we're cycling past kind of the shock effect of those news events people are regaining their confidence and that's why we've seen an improving trend in early April.
And there's no correlation Leo between display and the paid model.
Just to remember that the paid model really didn't start until March 28.
Our next question will come from Edward Atorino with Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> I have a couple of thoughts here.
On The Times there's a lot of buzzwords that people are finding their way around your system et cetera like that is that as severe as it looks on the outside? Secondly on the online advertising is there a fixed rate structure there? Or is it -- how do you price that actually? And is there room to adjust pricing as you go forward? Well let me start with the point about the pay wall and just so everyone's on the same page let's start with the fundamentals.
Our model deliberately balances the need for broad reach for advertising purposes against the need to create a second robust revenue stream on the subscriber side.
So that's the idea.
And to answer your question directly we're seeing far less effect from the so-called workarounds than we in fact modeled.
We know there are certain small number of people who will try to circumvent the wall.
We have cataloged and continue to track every conceivable way that people are doing this.
Again the good news is that fewer people are doing it than we modeled.
The people who are doing it will likely never pay in any event and if we see the numbers change for whatever reason we have a broad range of mitigating techniques to combat these unscrupulous people.
So bottom line the impacts are far less than we modeled and we expected to have some impact.
So there's really nothing more to say to it beyond that.
LLC</strong> Has there been much affect on the print circulation yet? As I said we have seen increases in home delivery across all frequencies Ed with the adoption of the paid model.
And I'm not precisely clear on your question about ad impressions.
We have always had flexibility with respect to pricing and in fact The Times website has been at or near the top of the pricing pyramid for many years now and continues to be.
And the reason for that in part is because even from the beginning we were registering all of our heavy users and could target much more finely than a typical website could target based on demographics and then over time behavioral attributes.
So we've been we’ve had a lot of pricing leverage from the beginning.
The Times website in particular is considered one of a rarified group of premium sites that do not need to work with ad networks.
We work with no ad networks.
We have a relationship with Google AdSense which is a non-blind so-called long-tail relationship that is the only people who can buy the inventory are Google smaller advertisers we have a 2 000 advertiser block list.
But the rest of the inventory is all sold by us at premium.
So part of the point that Janet made at the outset in her prepared remarks was that we have a lot of excess inventory each month just like every website does and it's that inventory that we can moderate to some extent based on the metered model.
So to summarize we do have great leverage.
We continue to have great leverage.
We raised rates on key parts of the site key parts of the site last year both the homepage and some of our premium display positions.
And I think we'll continue to have that going forward based on our audience and our brand composition.
LLC</strong> One more question on the joint venture income it sounds like there could be negative numbers over the course of the year given the large impact of the depreciation from the soccer team? Well look I'm not going to get into what it is or what it's not but I will say that is pre-seasonal -- our objective on potential lines are pre-seasonal line which is a lot of that is very much driven around the baseball season.
So the baseball season is obviously very concentrated in the second and the third quarter.
So I wouldn't necessarily extrapolate that first quarter into the rest of the year.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay thanks.
We'll take a follow-up question from John Janedis with UBS.
My question was answered.
That concludes the question-and-answer session today.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Schwartz for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks again for joining our call.
Please call us if you have any additional question.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to The New York Times Company Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Paula Schwartz Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
We have several members of our senior management team here to discuss the results with you including Janet Robinson President and CEO; Jim Follo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Martin Nisenholtz Senior Vice President of Digital Operations; Denise Warren Senior Vice President and Chief Advertising Officer of The New York Times Media Group and General Manager of nytimes.com; and Roland Caputo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The New York Times Media Group.
All of the comparisons on this conference call will be for the second quarter of 2011 to the second quarter of 2010 unless otherwise stated.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2010 10-K.
Our presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Janet Robinson.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
The second quarter was a historic one for our company as we successfully managed the launch of The New York Times digital subscriptions and began to see the early effects on our overall financial performance.
The positive consumer response to the subscription packages is a strong indication of the value users place on our world-class news analysis and commentary.
And it reflects our growing ability to capitalize on secular trends that show consumer willingness to pay for content across multiple digital platforms.
We are pleased with how this initiative is rolling out and in particular performance of key metrics including the volume of paid digital subscriptions overall traffic rates and digital advertising revenue.
In the second quarter we also continued to post solid year-over-year gains in digital advertising revenues at the News Media Group.
In addition the rate of home delivery circulation declines moderated due to an uptick in new home delivery orders and a decline in attrition since the launch.
With the challenges presented by the economy and our industry still front and center success is certainly not guaranteed with this transition added to the mix.
But significantly we rolled out these highly anticipated changes with minimal disruption.
This is a long-term effort and the full potential of our new digital model will become more evident as the year progresses providing us with the significant new revenue stream in the second half of the year.
As we continue to position ourselves to capitalize on the digitization of our content across multiple business units we are confident that the path we have been pursuing to transform our company is the right one.
In the second quarter we continued our focus on strategic initiatives including advancing the monetization of our digital offering with the successful introduction of The Times digital subscription packages and plans to launch a bostonglobe.com subscription site in full swing further solidifying our enduring commitment to premium journalism with the announcement that Jill Abramson will take the helm as the next Executive Editor of The New York Times in September remaining diligent on expense controls even as we invest in new business models and other digital initiatives across our businesses managing our asset portfolio to maintain its alignment with our core operations and strategic initiatives leading to the sale of more than half of our Fenway Sports Group stake at the beginning of the third quarter for $117 million a deal that tripled our initial investment.
And we are seeing robust demand for our remaining interest as well.
And lastly strengthening our liquidity position enabling us to prepay next month our 14% notes more than 3 years before the due date.
Turning to the advertising marketplace.
Business uncertainty did not abate in the second quarter as advertisers remained sensitive to global events and to diverging economic forecasts.
This manifested itself in producing limited visibility and continued volatility with regard to planning and ad spending.
Illustrating these effects a 3% increase in our digital advertising revenue could not offset the 6% decline in print advertising revenue in the quarter leading to total advertising revenues being down 4%.
Circulation revenues are a boost from the launch of subscriptions across The Times digital products and ended flat for the quarter.
Total revenues were down 2%.
With expenses down 1% for the quarter our operating profit before depreciation amortization severance and special items decreased to $83 million in the second quarter from $93 million in the same period of 2010.
On a GAAP basis we saw an operating loss of $114 million in the second quarter compared with an operating profit of $61 million in the same period of 2010.
Diluted earnings per share excluding severance expense and special items were $0.14 in the second quarter compared with $0.18 in the same period of 2010.
On a GAAP basis we reported a diluted loss per share of $0.81 in the quarter compared with EPS of $0.21 in the second quarter 2010 period.
As Jim will detail later the GAAP EPS and operating profit numbers include special charges of $0.95 per share in the quarter.
EPS in the second quarter of 2010 included a $0.03 per share gain.
As I mentioned earlier Times digital subscription packages launched globally at the beginning of the second quarter and the response has been encouraging.
At the end of the second quarter paid digital subscribers were approximately 224 000.
This is a net number and excludes any subscribers who may have opted out after their initial promotion offer.
In addition paid digital subscribers to replica editions and e-readers such as the Amazon Kindle and Barnes &amp; Noble Nook were approximately 57 000 bringing total paid digital subscribers to 281 000.
In addition to these paid subscribers there are approximately 100 000 highly engaged users who have free access to NYTimes.com and its smartphone apps this year to repay sponsorship from luxury automobile manufacturer Lincoln.
While the news cycle makes month-to-month comparisons difficult average monthly NYTimes.com unique visitors for the quarter were about 33 million in the United States and generally in line with the 11-month average for the site leading up to the launch of subscriptions while page views decline were less than we projected.
In our new online model we are trading some of our lower rate remnant advertising inventory for a subscription revenue stream direct from consumers.
But we continue to meet all of the demands for premium inventory on this site.
Expanding the accessibility of our digital subscription packages even further we continue to enhance our offerings which now include shared all digital access meaning that home delivery subscribers and digital subscribers to our most comprehensive package now receive an additional log-in to share with a member of their household.
The launch of Times subscriptions in the iTunes store and the addition of NYTimes.com access to our subscribers on the Kindle and Nook at no additional charge.
This fall we also plan to launch International Herald Tribune digital subscription packages which will include a suite of digital offerings that generally mirror the Times' packages.
As you will recall our new digital model enables users to access 20 articles for free each month but asks them to become subscribers once they hit that mark.
The homepage section fronts and deal book all remain browsable for free at this time.
We are intent on remaining part of the open web so we are welcoming visits from third parties such as search engines social networks and blogs.
And of course all home delivery subscribers receive free access to our all-inclusive digital package providing them with Times content across the website and tablets and smartphone apps.
Since mid-March we have also seen growth in the number of home delivery subscribers who have taken the initiative to link up their print accounts to NYTimes.com.
And that total was approximately 756 000 at the end of the second quarter.
This high rate of multi-platform penetration reflects the strength of our brand and the engagement level of our readers.
While The Times apps for both the iPad and iPhone remain free access beyond the Top News section is now available only through subscriptions being offered in conjunction with the digital packages.
In total we have seen nearly 7 million downloads of our iPhone news app since its 2008 launch and nearly 2.3 million downloads of our iPad app since its original launch.
Advertising positions continue to see high demand on the iPad and are currently sold out through the end of the third quarter.
The eReader application business has proven to be another vibrant market where consumers are willing to pay for quality content further diversifying our revenue streams and strengthening our digital businesses.
The 2 leading e-reader platforms the Kindle and the Nook began offering subscribers to The Times on these devices free access to NYTimes.com in early July.
We are currently the best-selling newspaper on both of these e-readers.
I've already referenced a variety of metrics related to our digital subscription packages but I would like to provide you with one more.
With the updated numbers I have provided today including the digital readers who have began paying within the first 3 months subscribers to The Times on e-reader devices users receiving free access through our Lincoln sponsorship program and home delivery subscribers who have linked their digital accounts we have an early read as to the initial audience that is most engaged with our digital offerings.
In total The Times has paid or sponsored relationships with more than 1 million digital users at the end of the second quarter.
Given all of these strong statistics it is no surprise that NYTimes.com has maintained its leadership position in brand advertising in this new subscription environment as marketers continue to come to us for our reach the quality of our audience and our ability to create and execute unique campaigns.
Premium advertisers such as Westin HBO and Audi have made the site their first destination for breaking digital advertising campaigns especially on our homepage which remains available to all NYTimes.com visitors and drives a substantial portion of digital advertising revenue.
Now let me offer some more depth on our second quarter revenues.
Total revenues for the company declined 2% with advertising revenues down 4% circulation revenues flat and other revenues down 1%.
At the News Media Group which includes The New York Times New England and Regional Media Groups continued strength in digital advertising which was up 16% could not fully offset the softness in print advertising which ended down 6%.
We began to face difficult comparisons in May at The Times and the Regional Media Group from BP's 2010 spending related to the Gulf oil spill which was significant and responsible for our approximately 1.5 percentage points of the print decline.
The third-quarter impact is expected to be similar.
The News Media Group's total advertising revenues which declined 2.5% year-over-year in the quarter declined 3% in April were flat in May and declined to 4% in June.
Digital advertising remained resilient led by growth in national display.
We saw gains in online retail display as well as the digital automotive classified category.
By total advertising category national revenue was up 2% retail was down 9% and classified was down 8%.
Within the classified area recruitment was down 4% automotive declined 6% and real estate was down 13%.
Breaking down the News Media Group into its component properties at The Times Media Group advertising revenues were down 1% in the quarter as growth online nearly offset print declines demonstrating a pattern similar to the previous quarter.
Overall advertising saw strength in May but then fell in June.
Combined print and digital national advertising at The Times Media Group was up slightly.
Categories experiencing the largest gains were technology driven by a search engine branding campaign and enterprise solution marketing by software companies; the luxury cluster experienced gains driven by campaigns from American and international watch manufacturers and clothiers; and books driven primarily by promotion of electronic reading devices.
National categories where we saw the largest combined losses were hotels driven by a postponement of campaigns to the second half of the year and increased spending last year by the tourism boards associated with the 2010 Olympics; transportation due to domestic airline consolidation and marketing strategy shifts; and corporate as increased spending from energy companies only partially offset the BP image campaign in the second quarter of 2010.
Aggregate retail advertising declines were in line with the prior quarter as consumer confidence continue to be affected by high unemployment rates and macroeconomic events associated with the global fiscal environment.
Aggregate classified advertising declined on all platforms due to lingering softness in both home sales and the job market in local and national arenas.
Print innovation was showcased at The Times during the quarter as we launched our new Sunday Review section which replaces Week in Review and print and our mobile apps and takes over The Opinion pages online on Sundays.
Sunday Review is unique and that it offers news analysis and opinion pieces side-by-side with material from the The Times' editorial OpEd and news departments as well as from outside contributors.
As a reminder of how The New York Times has remained committed to investing in its newsroom even when others in the industry were scaling back last month The Times received 2 Loeb Awards for Paul Krugman in Commentary and Ron Lieber in Personal Finance.
The Times is also bolstering its already strong business coverage with the addition of Pulitzer prize winning journalist and best-selling author James B.
Stewart who was named a BizDay columnist in May.
At the New England Media Group advertising revenues declined 3% in the quarter due to weakness in print advertising.
Digital ad revenue showed solid growth on a monthly basis reflecting increases in the national and automotive classified categories.
Combined print and online national advertising was up led by gains in the financial services and travel categories offset in part by decreases in national automotive and telecom advertising.
Total retail advertising revenues were lower led by softness in categories including department stores and home improvement offset in part by increases in the sporting goods and automotive accessories categories.
Aggregate classified advertising also declined overall.
The Globe is approaching the launch of its 2 brand strategy which is expected to take place in September.
And we'll keep Boston.com free while starting BostonGlobe.com as a subscription site.
The Globe and Boston.com are both established brands in the regional marketplace offering us the opportunity to meet the media needs of 2 distinct audiences.
We plan to announce pricing and other details for BostonGlobe.com closer to the launch.
At the Regional Media Group advertising revenues decreased 9% due to weakness in print advertising particularly in the retail category.
On the digital side the group saw strong growth in retail and display -- national display as well as in automotive and real estate classified categories.
At the larger News Media Group circulation revenues were flat for the quarter as the new digital revenue stream at The Times helped to offset a decline in print copies sold across our newspaper properties.
While we have seen a positive impact on home delivery trends at The Times associated with the launch of digital subscriptions print circulation was still slightly lower compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Moving onto the About Group.
Total revenues declined 17% to $28 million in the second quarter due principally to declines in both cost-per-click and display advertising.
We are proactively responding to some of the secular shifts taking place in the search universe.
In addition to management changes at About in the quarter we continue to execute on planned investments toward a number of strategic initiatives.
About has redesigned its homepage and is currently expanding the volume and distribution of expert content on its platform including launching its Spanish language channel which can be accessed at About.com/espanol increasing its roster of topic sites which is now at more than 900 and doubling the number of how-to videos across its 24 channels which will soon be available via YouTube.
Design changes in cost-per-click advertisements served by Google continue to have a negative effect on click-through rates in the quarter although we believe we will finish cycling through that impact at the end of July.
As a result we expect to see a modest improvement in CPC revenue beginning in August.
For reference purposes the first half of 2010 saw cost-per-click advertising revenue increase of 23% while in the second half of 2010 cost-per-click revenue was down 4%.
About also experienced a negative effect on page views in the second quarter of 2011 due to increased competition as well as algorithm changes Google implemented in the first quarter.
Display advertising saw a second-quarter declines in categories such as retail education and home improvement but showed growth in categories including packaged goods pharmaceuticals and travel.
In addition to the effects of competitive market pressures About was again cycling difficult comparisons with the second quarter of 2010 when display advertising grew 39%.
The About Group's operating cost decreased 11%.
And operating costs excluding depreciation and amortization and severance decreased 15% to $13 million primarily because of lower compensation costs.
Operating profit declined 24% to $12 million in the quarter.
Nevertheless due to its variable cost structure About's operating margin remained strong at 42% in the quarter.
Companywide total digital advertising revenues rose 3% to $85 million from $82 million in the prior-year period.
Digital advertising revenue at the News Media Group increased 16% to $58 million from $50 million mainly due to strong growth in national display advertising.
Digital advertising revenue continued to grow its share of revenues and made up 28% of our total ad revenues in the quarter up from 26% in the second quarter of 2010.
In the third quarter we currently expect advertising revenue trends similar to those of the second quarter reflecting ongoing digital strength at the News Media Group but partially offset by softness at the About Group.
Overall circulation revenue is expected to improve in the low single digits in the third quarter due to the positive impact of the launch of our digital subscription model.
Wrapping up despite the challenges to our business brought by the continued uneven economy and secular changes the investments and initiatives we have outlined particularly in our digital business have secured our successful transition where the underlying value of our content is widely recognized and rewarded across all platforms.
Now let me turn the call over to Jim who will give you more details on our results.
Thanks Janet.
Our continued focus on expense control is critical to our overall strategy and we remain diligent pursuing opportunities to aggressively reduce costs and to further improve our financial flexibility.
This was highlighted with the recent announcement of our intention to prepay in full our $250 million 14% notes 5 months before we have previously indicated as we feel that utilizing the make-whole provision of that agreement is advantageous to us at this time.
Our significant cash position enhanced by the recent sale of 390 units of Fenway Sports Group for a $64 million pretax gain and our November debt offering of $225 million at 6 5/8% provides us with substantial liquidity to support an earlier prepayment.
Given the high rate of interest eliminating this debt from our balance sheet at the earliest possible date will ultimately provide a financial benefit in the form of interest expense savings that will exceed $39 million annually through January 2015.
The estimated prepayment on August 15 will total approximately $279 million which include the $250 million principal amount of the notes $3 million of accrued interest through the prepayment date and $26 million make-whole premium.
The total prepayment amount is substantially the same as would have been in due if we have prepaid on the January 15 2012 call date.
We will incur a $46 million loss on the prepayment in the third quarter which represents accelerated noncash interest expense that would have been recognized over the remaining maturity period and the make-whole premium although we expect the estimated charge will be approximately $27 million after factoring in a cash benefit.
Immobiliaria Carso and Banco Inbursa continue to hold warrants to purchase 15.9 million shares of our Class A stock.
These warrants expire on January 15 2015.
In the second quarter operating costs were down 1% as a result of lower compensation costs which were partially offset by high newsprint expense and promotion costs associated with the launch of our digital subscription packages.
While expense control efforts have become more challenging we remain focused on identifying further efficiencies through our operations which for 2012 could come in the form of increased manufacturing efficiencies further leveraging of our centralized resources and lower outside printing expenses.
Turning to special items.
Our second quarter earnings were unfavorably affected by a $0.93 per share by the write-down of assets at the News Media Group primarily goodwill at the Regional Media Group and by $0.02 per share for a withdrawal obligation charge under a multiemployer pension plan at The Globe.
Earnings per share in the second quarter of 2010 had been favorably affected by $0.03 by the sale of 50 of the company's original 750 units in Fenway Sports Group.
The gain from our recent sale of an additional 390 units will be reflected in the third quarter.
Severance cost increased by $500 000 to $1.9 million in the second quarter compared with the prior year.
Depreciation and amortization was $30 million in the quarter on par with the second quarter 2010.
In 2011 we expect depreciation and amortization to be between $115 million and $120 million.
Newsprint expense increased 6% in the quarter with an 11% increase from higher pricing offset in part by a 5% decrease in lower consumption.
While newsprint prices have remained stable since July 2010 prices were higher in the second quarter as a result of prices rising steadily during the same period in 2010.
In the third quarter newsprint prices are expected to be relatively flat versus the same period of 2010.
Net interest expense increased 22% in the quarter to $25 million as a result of the $225 million debt offering we completed in November.
We now expect interest expense to be between $83 million and $87 million for 2011.
Income from joint ventures was $3 million in the second quarter compared to $8 million in the second quarter of 2010.
While our joint venture line will continue to see a negative impact this year from amortization expense associated with Fenway Sports Group's acquisition of Liverpool soccer club.
That amortization expense will decline in the second half of the year proportionate to the sale of 390 units in early July which left us with a 7.3% stake.
We expect income from joint ventures to be between $3 million and $4 million in the second half of the year with approximately $1 million in the third quarter.
We continue to manage our liquidity position and finished the quarter with $403 million cash and short-term investments although this does not incorporate either the recent Fenway Sports Group sale or the Inbursa prepayment.
We have no outstanding borrowings during the quarter under our new 5-year $125 million asset-backed revolving credit facility which replaced our $400 million credit facility in June.
We continue to tightly manage capital spending with capital expenditures totaling approximately $11 million in the quarter and $21 million year-to-date.
We project capital expenditures will total between $45 million and $55 million for the year including investments in digital systems across the company.
The company had effective tax rate of 12.2% on a pretax loss of $136 million in the second quarter and an effective tax rate of 11.7% on a pretax loss of $130 million for the first half of 2011.
The effective rate in the second quarter and the first half of 2011 was unfavorably affected because a portion of the Regional Media Group's goodwill write-down is nondeductible.
Looking ahead we expect operating cost to decline in the low-single digits for the second half of the year with most of the declines coming in fourth quarter.
With that we'd be happy to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
A couple questions the first one on the paywall.
Could you give us a sense of what the average rate has been for the paywall? I know you disclosed what the rack rate is but I assume there's some early promotions for signing up.
I'm trying to get a sense of sort of what its average in the quarter.
And then staying on the paywall could you give a sense how the rate of subscription growth sort of is generally trending? I mean I assume you haven't -- when you initially launched it there's probably a big sign-up period and it's probably moderated a bit if you can give us some color on that.
Sure.
I'm going to have Denise and Martin give you an overview in regard to those questions.
Alexia just on the average rate question we're not disclosing that.
But what I can tell you is that the bundle that is the web and smart phone bundle as you would imagine is the bundle that is more significant in terms of purchasing than the other 2.
So that should help you a little bit in trying to calculate your estimates.
As you would imagine the rate of sub growth does slow in the quarter but that's because we had such an outstanding launch in the beginning.
I also want to say that this is a brand-new initiative for us.
It's 3 months old.
And as Janet indicated in her remarks we're very very very pleased with our performance to date.
And we still have yet to launch many initiatives to support this going forward both on the marketing and the product front that we know will absolutely have an impact a positive impact on our results going forward.
Just to give you a bit more color on that things like gift subscriptions things like corporate and group accounts we are planning to launch those but we have yet to launch them.
So we do believe that there's a lot of opportunity to grow this moving forward.
Just staying on the rate question for a minute.
I can completely understand why you can't disclose it for competitive reasons and such.
But could you -- is it possible to sort of give us a sense if there were some promotions involved? Were they yearly? Were they monthly? I mean I'm just trying to get a better sense on when may might see an impact on sort of the pricing in trying to figure out your circulation revenue.
Sure.
The promotion that we launched with that was most stuff it was a $0.99 offer for 4 weeks.
We're very pleased with the conversion rate as people roll off that promotion so that should also give you a sense.
And we also plan to offer that.
It would just be -- as we build the subscriber file the impact of that would move pretty rapidly.
And so as we go into the second half of the year you will see a pretty significant growth in what we're getting for subscriber.
Okay.
And then just last question on the circulation side you touched on obviously the print circulation declines being a bit moderated a bit hopefully related to -- somewhat related to The New York Times paywall launch.
But also one of your peers noted earlier this week that -- it has nothing to do with the paywall launch obviously they're also seeing moderation in print declines in terms of volume across their papers.
Are you seeing any moderation I guess outside of New York Times in terms of your circulation volumes? I think some I think that the ABC comes out as you well know in September.
We're seeing some moderation in some areas.
But I think the larger area of moderation that we've seen is predominately at The New York Times.
We'll take our next question from Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Just so on the paywall subs any color on geographic mix at this point i.e.
what kind of success have you had from international? Obviously you have a large international following in your unique visitors.
So any color there will be helpful.
And then Jim can you give any specifics on headcount for the company sort of where it is now and what it is year-over-year? Where it is now? It's about 7 200 that data [ph] about 2% year-over-year.
Doug it's Denise Warren.
On the geographic question approximately 88% of our orders are from the U.S.
and 12% are from the international marketplace.
That will probably change as we noted in Janet's script that we launched the IHT subscription model in the third quarter.
We'll take our next question from Craig Huber with Access 3:42.
My first question please can you talk a little further about cost? I guess why you're saying that the cost of the fourth quarter will be down year-over-year more than in the third quarter first question.
Well there's 2 principal sort of larger things and just a bunch of smaller things.
As I said in my remarks newsprint prices we'd now cycle for the last increase.
And our cost items that we gave for the second half of the year does assume that we have a stable news -- essentially we assume we have stable newsprint prices and that's been a negative headwind throughout the year.
And we also have spent meaningful amounts during the launch on promotion.
Now we'll continue to spend on promoting and we will continue to be adaptable and adjust our planning.
But as of right now we think that we will have had more spending in the initial 3 possible launch relative to what we'll see in the third and the fourth quarter.
Those are some meaningful [ph] I think that contributes to that.
And then Janet can you speak a little bit further about what you're seeing in the month of July so far in the newspaper and digital ad revenue front? As we noted we're seeing similar performance as we saw in the second quarter.
That was in the release and in my remarks as well.
I think it's very early in the quarter to predict how the quarter will certainly roll out.
But that's what we're seeing 2 weeks into it.
And then a little further on About.com I think this is really the first time you guys have called out one of the reasons that revenue is down so significantly in the teens here due to competition.
What are you seeing differently this quarter that you've seen in recent quarters? And I know the change -- you talked about the change with the display placement from a year ago from Google.
Yes.
I'm going to have Martin walk you through because there's been a lot of activity at About and I think a very clear understanding of what's going on there is important.
Yes it's important to have the full background on About to understand what the business is and where it might be going.
During the third quarter of last year we implemented I think Janet noted this in her remarks a mandated design change by Google to the way we display their AdSense product.
And that had an immediate negative impact on our CPC business beginning in August 2010.
In addition during the back half of last year algorithmic modifications at Google further negatively affected our CPC business.
In the display area where we grew 39% in Q2 of 2010 we began to see pressure in Q4 of last year as more money flowed to social media and exchange-traded buying in the middle part of the market.
So as we entered 2011 this created a kind of perfect storm as 2 major algorithmic changes at Google they refer to as Panda Panda 1 and Panda 2 in Q1 significantly impacted our traffic.
And the display trends toward social media and exchange-traded buying intensified again in the middle part of the market.
So during the second quarter these display trends were magnified at About as a very very hot market for digital sales talent created volatility in the sales force.
So during this past quarter we made a management change at the top at About and have been working very hard as Janet said to put a new growth plan in place a revitalized management team and a new sales force.
And we are very pleased with the progress that we've made in just a couple of months.
So we're now on the process of rolling out a much more disciplined sales plan.
We're increasing the number of guides and growing our content corpus.
We've hired a number of new sales people.
We've created a Hispanic channel and we will be adding to that over the coming months.
We're more than doubling the number of videos in the corpus.
And we have a significant initiative underway in both the social media and mobile app arenas.
Are you expecting though -- and tell us if obviously if its annualized now but for the third quarter here are you expecting the About.com's revenue performance in the third quarter to be similar to what you saw in the second quarter? I guess the concern here is if this continues a lot longer it's gone a long way to offset the great gains you guys do on the paywall on the share front.
Is it always -- if it continues to be like this? We expect to have continued volatility into the third quarter.
Some of these things will begin to cycle through.
And Janet mentioned the improvement on the design change so there should be some improvement in the third quarter on CPC.
But the business will remain volatile through the third quarter.
And as we get into next year and implement this changes we expect to see improved results obviously just based in some part on cycles.
So that's the short answer.
We'll take our next question from William Bird with Lazard Capital.
I was wondering if you could just talk about the impact the iTunes store launches had on digital subscription sales.
And also if you could just discuss how you think about capital returns after the Carlos Slim debt repayment.
I'll start on the capital sub question.
We've obviously made great progress over the last several years and clearly putting 14% debt behind us is another pretty big step for us.
We're still -- so I think on the pure kind of net debt side of the balance sheet you're getting into pretty comfortable territory there.
But we still have pension funding issues that we're addressing.
But we're certainly clearly getting closer to the point where we can consider those things.
And part of that we'll consider -- continue to work at how we find growth and enhance growth in the acquisition area.
So we put all those things together I think we're in a way better position.
But right now I think our priority still has to be getting some of the pension funding behind us and once we do that I think we'll be in a better position.
On the iTunes launch as you know this actually did not launch in the second quarter it launched July 1.
It was a very smooth launch.
We're tracking it closely but at this point we're not disclosing results or the impact of the launch.
And could you talk about kind of initiatives to kind of increment subscriber growth? You've had some success with the Lincoln initiative.
Is it likely you'll do more things like that? Yes we absolutely will plan to do things like that.
As you can imagine the advertising community just on that particular one took great notice of the Lincoln sponsorship and there are active conversations with the advertising community about sponsorships around the digital subscription plan.
As I mentioned in an earlier answer there are a number of initiatives planned both on a product and marketing front as well as investing in our capabilities.
We're making an investment in our analytics capabilities for example to give us a better predictive modeling capability.
As I mentioned we will be launching both group and corporate accounts as well as gift subscriptions which should also help to increment the subscriptions.
Next year and again I know this is a little far forward looking but the Lincoln promotion as you know goes through this year so we do believe we have a great opportunity when those engaged users go through the sponsorship phase to increment them to paying subscribers.
I would just add also I guess I would call it phase two of the launch that included the additional member of the household as part of your subscription.
And Kindle and Barnes &amp; Noble Nook being added that's comparatively new Bill.
So I think that there is a real opportunity there primarily because the timing has been just recent of those additions.
And have you seen any change in conversion rates on the subs that you have promoting to? We're very -- as I said earlier we're extremely happy with the conversion rates and we're really just rolling into the first 90-day analysis because this is only 3 months old.
But we are very very pleased with what we are seeing to date.
We'll take our next question from John Janedis with UBS.
Can you give us if possible just a little more granularity on circulation meaning how different was churn in the second quarter relative to the first quarter? Have you seen a shift in subscriptions from the weekdays to the weekends? And what was the actual total change in print copies for the quarter? Yes.
Since launch we've seen a change in the rate of subscription orders that's improved.
We've also seen a change -- a positive change in the rate of cancellations that's slowed noticeably.
When we take those 2 effects what we see is a moderation in the overall copy loss in Q2.
The print portion year-over-year for Sunday in Q2 was a decrease of 2.3%.
That's an improvement of 1.5 points over the drop we saw in Q1.
And the daily in Q2 was down 4.5%.
That's an improvement of 1 percentage point over what we saw in Q1.
We actually have more subscribers now absolute number of subscribers than we did at year-end 2010 which gets a bit to your mix question.
So we're seeing increased orders across all of our offerings 7-day 5-day the weekend and Sunday but the increase is skewing more towards the weekend and Sunday.
I'm sorry just to kick in it's Martin.
Going back to the About question.
Craig I think you mentioned a thought that the About declines would offset the upside on the paywall.
Our analysis is that the About declines don't nearly offset the paywall upside.
So I think you're on a wrong track there.
Martin while I got you I know you talked a lot about About over the past year or so and I'm wondering given the ongoing changes from Google could that lead to a continuation of pressure there on revenue that really more than offsets the investment you're making to block that impact? Well I mean what I didn't get a chance to say at the end of my comment on Craig's question was that the purpose of Google's algorithmic changes are to increase the quality of the content returns and we support that.
And their algorithmic changes have often benefited us in the past.
These 2 changes that were made at the beginning of the year were in my view very very extreme.
And I obviously can't tell you what additional changes will happen in the future.
But I can say that in the past changes have benefited us.
Changes have sometimes affected us negatively.
We've always been able to respond to them and we believe we can do that in the future.
The purpose of Google's change is not some abstraction it's to improve quality.
And we believe that the quality of our content on About is very very high.
Moreover we're not doing any scraping anything like that that would bother somebody who was creating a search engine.
We don't do that.
It's not what we do.
So any of the things that we believe they are trying to address in their changes are things that we support.
So I think over time this is going to have a positive impact on us.
But I think obviously for the short term I used the word volatility in the third quarter that's where we are.
We're working our way through it.
The improvements in the content we're addressing.
We've said that.
And I think over the long term you're going to see that our methodology with the guides is the right one.
So that's a long winded answer to your question but I think that's how we feel.
May I ask one last question on advertising? What are you seeing -- maybe a 2 part what are you seeing in some legal and other category within classified? Has there been a change in foreclosures or other notices in terms of whether being advertised? And then secondly I think the movie category looks a little bit soft at the start of the third quarter is it a function of more sequels advertising less? And can you also talk about what you're seeing in the financials and autos? As far as the legal we aren't seeing major changes now in the way they've advertised on foreclosures no.
In terms of what we're seeing so far in July let me just start by saying as you all know the economic uncertainty is significant and continue to impact our advertisers' commitment which of course makes it difficult for us to project forward what spending is going to look like.
And so whatever I say about July and I'll give you a little bit of color on the categories that you asked for may not be indicative of what happens in the quarter.
Specifically on your question about the studio business you are correct.
There are several sequels and they tend not to be supported the same way as new genres which were very well supported in Q2.
So that is what we're seeing in the entertainment sector.
As far as financial is concerned we are seeing a quiet retail banking sector due mostly to the poor results that they've mostly just announced lack of product and the uncertainty regarding pending legislation.
And I'm sorry did you ask about one more category? I can't remember.
Yes auto.
Yes automotive.
So that sector is definitely seeing a weakness due to the deeper impact of the earthquake and the resulting supply-chain impact.
However we do believe that based upon conversations we're hearing from advertisers that this is likely to be a timing issue as they are still talking about many product launches later this year and early next year.
And we'll take our next question from Leo Kulp with Citigroup.
Two quick questions if I may.
First can you talk about the change in digital ad revenues at The New York Times specifically? And did you sort of see a slowdown like Yahoo! and WebMD did? And then second can you remind us when you anniversary-ed the BP image campaign and what the impact of that was on results? So let me take the digital question first.
As we reported in the script the News Media Group saw a 16% growth in digital advertising revenues in the quarter.
So I think we had a very very very strong month and we're very pleased with that performance.
We did see in the quarter our digital advertising revenue again this is just at the News Media Group improved.
So we think that's a very good trend.
We did not experience what Yahoo! experienced.
As a matter of fact if I recall from reading the Yahoo! transcript they had made mention of the fact that they were not able to sell as successfully their direct premium advertising and therefore they were selling more remnant which is much lower rate.
That is not the case at The New York Times.
When you look at all of our premium units we either had the same sell-through or a better sell-through than we had last year.
So we're very pleased with the digital performances this past quarter.
On BP the heaviest spending actually will take place on a comp basis in the third quarter.
And Janet's remarks suggested that about 1.5 of the print decline in the second quarter which leads us to -- the math on that would be about $3.5 million of national advertising.
And similar in that range as far as the impact on the third quarter you would expect as well and the number becomes quite modest almost nothing on the fourth quarter.
We'll take our next question from Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
LLC</strong> I got a couple of questions.
On the -- any extent that there was a sort of a cannibalization or a shift of some of the print advertising to online in any way to comment on that number one.
Number two could the strength in circulation be due to your very effective promotional campaign and nothing regarding any relationship to the paid model? The strength in circulation is a little bit of both.
I think that the moderating that Roland outlined in regard to attrition is something that should be taken into consideration.
But also the fact that we have seen an increase in home delivery orders due to the paid model and their desire to receive all digital access.
Ed it's Denise.
I don't know that we've seen any change in terms of your first question.
I mean for the past year the metrics that we look at in terms of cross-platform sales has continued to hold.
So over the past year about 80% of our print advertisers are running digitally.
So I think that gives you a good sense as to how advertisers are looking at us.
We have a very strong cross-platform story and it's very well received in the advertising community.
LLC</strong> Is there a pacing comment you can make regarding the online numbers both in terms of circulation and advertising? So the July numbers August numbers.
No I think it's too early for us to predict how the quarter will roll out.
I think what we've said about July it being so early in July we've noted that we think that it will look like second quarter in regard to the ad revenues I think that's as far as we can go right now at.
LLC</strong> A question for Jim on the charge for the debt reduction is that going to be in the third quarter? Yes.
LLC</strong> What was it $20 million $26 million.
No the losses I believe is $46 million.
LLC</strong> $40 million something? $46 million.
LLC</strong> $46 million.
And that's in the third quarter? That's in the third quarter.
LLC</strong> And in terms of year-to-year cost decline it's going to be sort of back loaded on the fourth quarter? Yes.
LLC</strong> For 2012 any early comment on cost plans? Too early to comment on that.
LLC</strong> Finally I wouldn't think Google is out to help anybody Martin.
I think they are out to get everybody.
Well it's our job to be able to make sure that our content is of the quality that we want it to be and we've always wanted to be at.
That's our job.
It's not about Google it's about the quality of our content.
LLC</strong> Yes okay.
I thought you were looking for help from Google.
No not at all.
We're not naive about Google.
Let's take a follow-up question from Craig Huber with Access 3:42.
Yes.
Could you give us a little more specifics if you would about the number of paying digital subs by the 3 tiers you have there? You mentioned briefly but could you give us a little more help on that how it breaks down.
The 220 000 number? What's that? That 220 000 number how it sort of breaks down between the 3 tiers.
Yes.
As I said earlier we're not disclosing that number.
But a bigger percentage is weighted towards the web and smartphone bundle as you would imagine.
Which is the $15 offer.
As you know there's $15 $20 $35.
And then my other question off topic here [indiscernible] question online help wanted what was the percent change there for your company in the second quarter? Online help wanted down 7.1% [indiscernible] wide.
Did it stay [ph] somewhere at your flagship paper? Yes it was.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to today's presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
If you have any more questions please give us a call.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to The New York Times Company Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Paula Schwartz.
You may begin.
Thank you Matt and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
We have several members of our senior management team here to discuss our results with you including: Janet Robinson President and CEO; Jim Follo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Scott Heekin-Canedy President and General Manager of The New York Times; and Martin Nisenholtz Senior Vice President of Digital Operations.
All of the comparisons on this conference call will be for the third quarter of 2011 to the third quarter of 2010 unless otherwise stated.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2010 10-K.
Our presentation will also include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com.
Now we'll turn over the call to Janet Robinson.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
We continue to execute on our strategy of transforming our business.
This quarter we made significant progress in developing a robust digital subscription revenue stream reducing our operating cost meaningfully improved our liquidity through the early repayment of high-interest debt and tripled our initial investment on the sale of a portion of our stake in Fenway Sports Group.
Our results also reflect the current sentiment of the larger economy as factors ranging from the European debt crisis to weaker consumer confidence led to a challenging advertising environment.
At the same time we achieved 6% growth in operating profit before depreciation amortization severance and special items through incremental subscription revenue resulting from the launch of The New York Times digital model as well as through continued focus on cost management.
While the lack of clarity on the direction of the economy caused advertisers to exercise more caution than we saw in the first half of the year NYTimes.com maintained its strong traffic levels and continued to fulfill its premium advertising commitments in the quarter.
Our digital subscription initiatives remained our top focus in the third quarter as The Times continued to build its pay offerings.
The Boston Globe launched the new subscription site BostonGlobe.com and the International Herald Tribune this month announced its own digital subscription packages.
These last 2 items are excellent examples of how our digital monetization efforts are evolving.
We continue to position ourselves to capitalize on our digital content across many of our brands in our ongoing effort to build a meaningful digital subscription revenue stream.
Turning to our results for the quarter with expenses down 4% we saw GAAP operating profit grow to $33 million from $9 million in the same period of 2010.
Our operating profit before depreciation amortization severance and special items increased to $65 million in the third quarter from $62 million in the same period in 2010.
Circulation revenues are a boost from our new digital paid products at The Times.
Total circulation revenues were up 3% for the company and 6% for our New York Times media group in the quarter.
It is worth noting that The Times has also seen benefits to home delivery circulation following the launch of its digital subscription plans due to an uptick in new orders and improved retention.
Digital advertising revenues are a loss of 5% in the third quarter driven by continued challenges of The About Group which saw a 21% decline in advertising revenue.
Although digital advertising growth across the News Media Group did not see quite the same strength in recent quarters it posted a 6% gain.
In fact in the 2-quarter period since the launch of digital subscription packages at The Times the News Media Group has seen an 11% increase in digital advertising revenue with NYTimes.com of course contributing heavily to that total.
Print advertising revenue was down 10% in the quarter.
And as a result total advertising revenues were down 9% and total company revenues were down 3%.
Diluted earnings per share excluding severance expense and special items were $0.05 in the third quarter compared with $0.07 in the same period of 2010.
On a GAAP basis we reported diluted earnings per share of $0.10 in the quarter compared with a diluted loss per share of $0.03 in the third quarter 2010 period.
Returning to our digital initiatives 2 quarters into the pay model launch we have seen very good momentum and paid digital subscribers grew to 324 000 at the end of the third quarter.
This total paid digital number includes subscribers to the digital packages e-readers and replica editions.
The large majority of these subscribers have now advanced to paying full rates to access The Times' digital content.
If our experience with print subscribers is any indication now that these subscribers have converted to full payment it is highly likely that they will become loyal users.
In addition to these paid subscribers there are more than 100 000 highly engaged users who have free access to NYTimes.com and its smartphone apps due to Lincoln sponsorship until the end of this year and we expect to see a high conversion rate among these users once the sponsorship ends.
We also continue to experience growth in the number of home delivery subscribers with linked accounts to NYTimes.com and that total was approximately 800 000 at the end of the third quarter.
So in total The Times had paid or sponsored relationships with more than 1.2 million digital users at quarter end.
NYTimes.com has maintained its strong traffic and its ranking as a top 5 news and information site.
Average monthly unique visitors for the quarter were about 33 million in the United States and generally in line with the 11-month average for the site leading up to the launch of subscriptions while page view declines continue to be less than we projected down an average of 11% compared to prelaunch levels.
NYTimes.com also remains the most highly trafficked newspaper site in the world with more than 47 million unique visitors globally in August.
The Times' app for both the iPad and iPhone remain free to download but access beyond the Top News section is now available only through subscription packages.
We have seen 7.3 million downloads of our iPhone news app since its 2008 launch and more than 2.8 million downloads of our iPad app since its original launch.
Both of these apps are now available on Apple's newsstand which offers a new level of convenience by providing automatic updates and an easy way for users to find their news.
Advertising positions continue to see high demand on the iPad.
One premium advertising engagement worth highlighting is Ralph Lauren's exclusive sponsorship of The Times' iPad app for the month of September which received tremendous acclaim in the marketplace.
The sponsorship provided free access to certain sections of the app for the first time and featured interactive expandable rich media ad positions many of which contain e-commerce functionality right inside the app.
The app also hosted live video with an exclusive live stream of Ralph Lauren's fashion week show.
Expanding the accessibility of our Times digital subscription packages even further we continue to enhance our offerings including shared access meaning that the home delivery and all digital subscribers receive an additional log in to share with a member of their household.
And as -- at the beginning of the third quarter Times one-click subscriptions were also available in the iTunes store.
Also early in the third quarter the Amazon Kindle and Barnes &amp; Noble NOOK began offering subscribers to The Times on those devices free access to NYTimes.com.
And The Times is currently the best-selling newspaper on both of those devices.
And finally in the third quarter we began offering special education rates across all of our digital packages to college students faculty and administrators mirroring our strategy in the print environment.
And later this quarter we will begin rolling out gift subscriptions and we plan to launch group accounts for corporate and education subscribers within the next few months.
We also recently launched digital subscription packages at the IHT in which its iPad and iPhone apps are now paid products.
These offerings are expected to bolster our consumer revenue stream by bringing our international subscribers into the fold who until now have been able to access the IHT apps for free.
The apps provide round-the-clock news across 19 sections from multiple news hubs and we are confident that many readers value the quality and convenience of the apps enough to pay for them.
Now let me offer some more depth on our third quarter revenues.
At the News Media Group which includes The New York Times New England and regional media groups circulation revenues were up 3% for the quarter and contributed nearly as much to the total revenue line as advertising.
Continued strength at the News Media Group and digital advertising which was up 6% could not offset the softness in print advertising which ended down 10%.
We faced difficult comparisons again this quarter at The Times and the Regional Media Group from British Petroleum's 2010 spending related to the Gulf oil spill which was responsible for approximately 2 percentage points of the print decline.
The effect of cycling BP's spending will be minimal in the fourth quarter.
The News Media Group's total advertising revenues declined 7% year-over-year in the quarter.
Digital advertising remain resilient led by growth in retail and national display and in the Automotive Classified category.
By total advertising category National and Retail were both down 6% and Classified was down to 12%.
Within the classified area real estate was down 17% recruitment was down 14% and automotive declined 4%.
Breaking down the News Media Group into its component properties at The Times media group which represents 66% of the News Media Group's advertising revenues ad revenues were down 6% in the quarter as continued growth online particularly in national display could not offset print declines.
Demonstrating a pattern similar to the first half of the year the middle of the month in the -- the middle month in the quarter in this case August was the strongest from a total advertising revenue perspective although all months show declines.
Combined print and digital national advertising in The Times Media Group was down.
National ad categories where we saw the largest combined declines were: Automotive driven by marketing shifts and delayed product launches from domestic and foreign manufacturers; transportation due to domestic airline consolidations a reduced number of flights and marketing strategy shift; and entertainment as studio support for new releases and box office sales have both been weak.
Categories experiencing the largest gains were: Technology driven by product innovation campaigns a search engine branding campaign and enterprise solution marketing; the luxury cluster saw gains driven by campaigns from American and international clothiers as well as accessory manufacturers; and healthcare as pharmaceuticals and top-tier hospitals ran large branding campaigns and promoted new drugs.
Aggregate retail advertising declines improved from the previous quarter as a result of strong gains in fine arts coupled with moderating declines in other retail categories.
Aggregate classified advertising declined in all 3 major categories: automotive real estate and recruitment due to lingering softness in home sales and in the job market in the local and national arenas.
Demonstrating that The Times' video coverage is gaining as much respect and prominence as its more traditional coverage The Times won 2 News and Documentary Emmy awards last month for the multimedia project "A Year at War" which chronicles the lives of an American battalion over a year-long deployment in Afghanistan and for "14 Actors Acting" an online feature for The New York Times Magazine.
The Times is also finding innovative ways to use video to enhance the reader experience such as new storytelling feature that enables video to be embedded directly within the text of a story.
The Times' newsroom also just announced the expansion of its Opinion pages online which will soon include more contributors' content and video as well as enhanced discussion features building on the new Sunday review section.
Separately The Times recently launched India Inc.
an English-language blog offering news and analysis with a distinct perspective on topics that matter most to Indians that all -- and those interested in India.
And NYTimes.com continues to invest in tools functionality and increased content across the site including upcoming expansions of our technology blog Bits to incorporate a larger B2B focus and our popular health blog Well.
At The New England Media Group advertising revenues declined 10% in the quarter due to weakness in print advertising.
Digital ad revenues showed growth every month driven by increases in the automotive classified and national display categories.
Combined print and online national advertising was down led by decreases in financial services and studio entertainment categories offset in part by gains in travel and healthcare advertising.
Total retail revenues were lower led by softness in categories including home furnishings and department stores offset in part by increases in books and other retail categories.
Aggregate classified advertising also declined overall.
In September we launched BostonGlobe.com a new paid subscription site that offers the Globe's award-winning journalism in a new elegant environment that employs the latest technologies and capabilities.
Boston.com will remain free to users.
As our research showed there are 2 distinctive digital audiences using these 2 brands.
One that prefers reading the full range and depth of the Globe's journalism and the other looking for quick headlines on news sports and entertainment.
We have received very positive feedback on The Boston Globe's -- BostonGlobe.com's clean design.
Since the site just began charging for access yesterday it is too soon to gauge subscriber response.
We are however pleased by the interest shown by the high number of users who registered during September and the first half of October.
The site was initially sponsored by Coldwell Banker and available at no charge to readers.
In addition to a new consumer revenue stream BostonGlobe.com will create incremental opportunities for advertising adjacencies that target the most engaged readers of the Globe's content.
Readers who come to the site through third parties such as the search engines blogs and social media will still be able to access those individual articles and the homepage and section fronts will also remain free to browse.
And of course the Globe's home delivery subscribers receive free access to BostonGlobe.com.
At the Regional Media Group advertising revenues decreased 10% due to weakness in print advertising particularly in the retail category.
On the digital side the group saw strong growth every month in retail display as well as in automotive and recruitment classified categories.
Moving on to the About Group total revenues declined 21% to $26 million in the third quarter due to equal declines in cost-per-click and display advertising.
The CPC declines were primarily due to lower click-through rates as well as negative impact on traffic that resulted from both increased competition and Google algorithm changes.
In addition to making key changes internally in the third quarter About is aggressively responding externally to increased competition in both the display and search advertising market.
We believe the new management team's focus will accelerate progress.
Early this year About instituted a plan to grow its content and traffic and to improve its advertising effectiveness and it is making significant progress with the implementation.
About is doubling the number of how-to videos across its 24 channels and is on pace to reach nearly 10 000 videos in its library by the end of the year expanding the volume and distribution of expert content on its platform including launching its Spanish language channel and increasing its roster of topic sites which is now at more than 900.
About has also been rolling out a disciplined sales plan to better leverage the site's strong reach which averaged 40 million unique domestic visitors in the quarter.
We believe the sales initiative will prove instrumental in revitalizing About's display advertising business.
In addition while About continues to experience a negative effect on traffic due to Google algorithm changes implemented earlier this year it began to see slight improvement in page view trends during the quarter.
Search rankings ultimately determine page view statistics which impacts both display and cost-per-click advertising.
So efforts to address these issues will benefit both of About's advertising revenue streams.
Despite cycling through the design changes made in July 2010 cost-per-click revenue at The About Group did not see the benefit in the third quarter as the impact of a recent algorithm change in review rankings that affected our consumer search business offset the benefit of these in comparison.
Display advertising saw a third quarter declines in categories such as retail and automotive but showed growth in categories including consumer packaged goods and pharmaceuticals.
The About Group's operating costs decreased 13% and operating cost excluding depreciation amortization and severance decreased 14% to $13 million primarily because of lower variable compensation costs and marketing expenses.
Operating profit declined to $10 million in the quarter from $14 million in the same period last year.
Importantly due to its variable cost structure About's operating margin remains strong at 37% in the quarter.
Now let me turn the call over to Jim who will give you more detail on our results and outlook before we take questions.
Thank you Janet.
Even as we add new revenue streams across our company in the third quarter expense controls remained a critical component of our overall strategy and we will remain aggressive in pursuing opportunities to reduce costs and to further improve our financial flexibility.
That focus on improving financial flexibility was most recently highlighted by the previously announced prepayment in August of our $250 million 14% notes more than 3 years before their due date which we expect to lead to expense savings of more than $39 million annually through 2015.
We incurred a $46 million loss in the prepayment in the third quarter which represents the make-whole premium and accelerated non-cash interest expense that would've been recognized over the remaining maturity period.
The charge was closer to $28 million after factoring in a tax benefit.
In the beginning of the third quarter we sold more than half of our Fenway Sports Group stake for $117 million tripling our initial investment and we continue to see robust demand for our remaining interest.
In the third quarter operating costs were down 4% a result of lower variable compensation costs and professional fees.
We remain focused on identifying further efficiencies across our operations which through 2012 could come in the form of increased manufacturing efficiencies further leveraging of centralized resources and lower ongoing outside printing expenses while continuing to invest in our digital businesses.
Turning to special items our third quarter earnings were favorably affected by $0.24 per share by the $65 million gain on the FSG sale and unfavorably affected by $0.18 per share by the $46 million prepayment charge related to our 14% notes.
Severance costs were higher in the quarter at $3 million compared to $500 000 in the prior-year period.
Newsprint expense decreased approximately 3% in the quarter with nearly 7% decline and lower consumption offset in part by a 3% increase in higher pricing.
Newsprint expenses have remained stable since July 2010 but the prices in the third quarter of 2010 reflected usage of lower-priced inventory.
In the fourth quarter newsprint prices are expected to be relatively flat versus the same period in 2010.
We continue to improve our liquidity position.
We finished the quarter with $263 million in cash and short-term investments and reduced net debt to $509 million at quarter end compared to $597 million at the end of the second quarter.
On the pension front recent declines in interest rate as well as softness in the equity market have had a negative effect on the funded status of many defined benefit plans including our company-sponsored and joint-company-sponsored and guild-sponsored plans.
While we have already addressed our minimum funding requirements for 2011 and a significant portion of 2012 through voluntary contributions we may choose to make additional voluntary contributions later this year.
We will make this determination based upon factors including market activity in the fourth quarter and other potential uses of cash.
Note that since the majority of our pension plans are now frozen any actuarial gains and losses from interest rate changes and asset performance are amortized over a longer period of time.
Thus while we do expect to see an impact in our funded status from these dynamics this should not have a significant impact on pension expense in 2012.
Turning to our outlook.
In the first half of October we saw advertising trends improve modestly relative to those of the third quarter due to stronger growth in digital advertising revenues at the News Media Group.
We expect to see continued benefit from our digital subscription initiatives and total circulation revenues are projected to increase in the low- to mid- single digits in the fourth quarter.
And we'll continue to make progress in the cost front.
Operating expenses are expected to decline in the low- to mid- single digits in the fourth quarter.
And with that we'd be happy to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we will go to Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on the digital subscription rate.
I think you did say you're seeing a large majority of subscribers now becoming full paying.
Do you have -- can you give us a sense of what the conversion rate is from the promotions to the full paying subscribers? And staying on that topic in terms of new subscribers going forward do you -- is there a sort of a metric or maybe an internal goal you guys use in terms of what you look to and then hope to obtain each for going forward? Well we don't give conversion rates out Alexia.
What we will say is that we are extremely pleased with what we have seen in regard to the conversion rate.
As you know we've had promotional programs in place but we have been pleased to see how people are converting to full payment.
The same is going to hold true also at The Globe.
In regard to promotional offers they have a 4-week $0.99 offer that will convert to a $3.99 per week full pay offer.
So the use of promotion moving to conversion is how really both operating units are looking at this conversion.
And in regard to projections as far as new subscribers we don't give that out as well in regard to our expectations.
But as noted we are doing certainly a lot of promotion and marketing and we also are adding many things in the -- what we would consider I guess Phase 2 of our rollout that I noted into my remarks that included corporate accounts gift accounts education accounts certainly the shared accounts that I noted in regard to a multiple log ins.
So there are a number of things that are part of that program to increase subscriptions.
I would also remind you that that 100 000 that was the Lincoln subscription does that free subscription that Lincoln did pay for our most engaged users does expire at the end of the year.
Those are highly engaged users and we expect that those people will look positively upon a paid subscription to The Times particularly because of our experience in print.
Research Division</strong> So we might see a particular bump probably at the start of the year is that what you are suggesting? That expires -- that program expires at the end of the year.
We're starting to market to those people.
But as I noted in my remarks if our experience on the print side is any indication with these very engaged brand loyalists when indeed we do market we are hopeful that they will indeed convert to full payment.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up question on the comment you made earlier in your remarks about the broader business I think you said that August was the strongest month in the quarter.
Was the -- I don't know if you have the monthly data with you but if not was the I guess a little bit of a decline in September relative decline to August was it significant or was it really just a month-to-month seasonality that jumping around is not that big of deal.
It was jumping around.
It was a very volatile quarter.
As I noted a lot of that was due to a lot of the negative sentiment out there in regard to the economic climate that we did see to be quite frank all during the quarter July August and September.
And the next question will be from Craig Huber with Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions on the digital front last quarter you said that e-readers of replica editions were like 57 000 what is that number this quarter please? That's embedded in this 324 000 number it's not in the text.
It's about the same Craig.
There's some modest growth.
LLC</strong> Okay and then also you talked about the benefits in the circulation front for your flagship paper.
I believe in the 6 months in the last ABC statement ending more to the year-over-year basis your daily circulation was down 3.5%.
What is that tracking here for this latest 3-month period here? I mean the benefits that you're talking about is it down what less severe closer to flat or is actually up? Your question is specifically about print? LLC</strong> Yes print for the daily is it...
The print circulation continues to decline but those decline -- declines particularly on Sunday moderated in Q3.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can you talk further if you would Janet about what you’re seeing in October? I mean in this also -- can you maybe just quantify for us how September did for your News Media Group the advertising? Yes.
From a -- as far as October we've given guidance that we see modest improvement.
But as you can well understand it's very early still in the quarter for us to give more color on that.
In regard to September as we've noted it was an extremely volatile quarter in regard to the ad commitments primarily because of the economic conditions.
There are categories as we've said that did extremely or did well I should say during the quarter and show gains during that quarter particularly the luxury segment that we've noted often.
But from a standpoint of the fourth quarter it's usually a very heavy luxury category quarter in addition to heavy retail quarter.
But and there's also a lot of branding that's usually done during this quarter as well so we're looking at those categories that would be affected very carefully of course in regard to their performance in the fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> And then over the last 4 years you guys have taken about 30% of your costs and obviously a very brutal environment here.
If the economy doesn't cooperate here for say the next 2 years do you feel you can take out another 10% to 15% of your total cash costs? Now Craig.
We're -- we'll just -- as we've repeatedly said we'll just continue to be aggressive I'd prefer not to put a number out there but we still think there's areas that we can go to take cost out as you will have to be adaptable to the revenue environment as I think we always have.
But we've been answering the same question about is there anything more to cut for probably 4 years and we tend to find ways to do that.
The dynamics in the business changes where there are things where that maybe the opportunity wasn't there a year ago.
So I think we will have to maintain a pretty adaptable view.
And as we said in our outlook we will see again kind of low- to mid-single-digit decline in the fourth quarter and we've been pointing to back half of the year acceleration of that.
So we'll have to see about -- the best we can say is we're going to be aggressive as we need to be and we will have to be adaptable to the revenue environment without being precise.
And the next question will be from Leo Kulp of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about what you saw driving the deceleration in digital growth at the News Media Group this quarter? Was it -- you sort of maxed out on the growth from the home page or is there something else happening there? And then looking out to next year can you help us think about how to quantify the potential impact from iPad and mobile apps sort of ramping up? Well on the growth question I think the simple answer is that you saw -- as we have seen over the last couple of years now as the economy has gotten a little bit more squirrely advertisers are pulling back a bit.
And so you saw that in 2010 and we saw that again a bit in 2011 in the third quarter.
We don't think that there's anything fundamental about that.
It's just simply a question of some of the very significant economic issues that have faced us in the third quarter.
This is Scott.
I will just add to what Martin has said.
We saw similar deceleration at the end of Q1 associated with the events in Japan and the kind of ricochet effect it had on business and consumer confidence.
And within a few weeks after that that spend on digital came roaring back.
So we do see these episodes if you will when things going on in the larger economy can result in advertisers hitting the brakes.
And just one final thought the October trends that I mentioned suggest that News Media Group performance will be better in October and that's what we're seeing in the early part.
So it's fairly volatile and very tied to economic conditions.
Yes and on the iPad iPhone question it's a bit too early to call next year but I would say that as we see new entrants in the marketplace like the Kindle Fire come on stream we think that benefits our business.
We think that the more people adopt these technologies the better.
And we've seen really nice uptake in the last several weeks on the iPhone and iPad download site particularly with the success of the iPhone 4S.
So all of that's I think pointing to positive -- a positive future.
The next question will be from John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Janet just to clarify from Craig's question earlier.
Is the 224 000 digital subscription package subscribers in the second quarter kind of an apples to apples basis to third quarter numbers something like 260.
Is that maybe the ballpark number? The -- in the first -- in the second quarter we noted 224 000 worth of paid digital subscribers.
There were 57 000 added in regard to the e-reader.
When you're looking at this month we have joined the 300 -- we have joined the e-reader and replica editions with the paid subscribers and the total is 324 000.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Martin just back to digital within News Media to what extent are you seeing any kind of pricing pressure or competition from some of the social media players? We're not really seeing that in the News Media Group at all.
Obviously Facebook has poured billions and billions of ad impressions on the marketplace and they are quite hot now with respect to testing and execution on the social media side of the equation.
But I think that that's viewed somewhat separately from the brand-building activities that are being executed on sites like NYTimes.com.
So I would suggest that they're quite separate in terms of the advertiser's overall spend.
It's always very difficult to parse out where money is coming from across an advertiser's total budget.
And there's no question that Facebook has grown dramatically in the last 18 months but that money is -- it's never a 0-some gain and that money is coming from all over the marketing budget.
It's not coming from the digital spend on premium brands per se.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Martin we talked about this last quarter but given the ongoing changes over Google or with Google can you talk about the environment that you need to see for the segment to actually grow revenue again? You're talking about About.com? Research Division</strong> Yes.
About.com yes.
Yes well actually we've begun to see as Janet noted we've begun to see some good positive momentum on volume as the year has progressed.
And I would suggest that we have not seen the kind of hit to volume on the subsequent iterations of Panda over the last several months including the last one that was done about 2 weeks ago.
So the volume trends are actually quite positive for us.
And as we cycle through the more dramatic changes that happened in the first quarter of next year we have a fairly optimistic view of the volume improving.
So that I would say is going positively in our direction.
Obviously we can't predict what Google is going to do with its algorithms but so far so good coming out of this year.
In terms of the other variables quick-through rate cost-per-click those are obviously harder to call because we don't see them -- we don't have a -- we see them in -- retroactively.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one last question.
The helpline of growth that you posted was the weakest I think you had in the first quarter of last year.
And so I'm wondering to what extent do you think this is a result of the economic climate versus loss of share? And are you seeing any kind of change to start the fourth quarter? I think it's directly related to the economic climate.
So we -- at The Times we were seeing helpline of growth in print and digital earlier in the year.
And moving along we'll go to William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Jim I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about free cash flow deployment.
I guess given the pension and just a small required debt repay next year does that likely mean the dividend and buybacks are kind of on hold for a bit? Well look we were hoping to have interest rates be more favorable this year than they have been.
Obviously this low rate environment is quite a bit of pressure.
On the debt side we're really getting much closer to what we feel kind of on a net debt basis is comfortable.
We've got only one maturity we're facing and that's in September.
That's a small number it's $75 million easily handled by existing cash and cash from operations.
I would also say that we're still -- we expect to be in this period where CapEx will continue to run at a low level.
So we do see free cash flow generation being strong as we look out.
I think we'd still like to see some improvement in the funding status of the plans.
As I've said in my remarks I think we will consider some additional funding.
We're not required to make any but this is very sensitive to interest rates as I've regularly said and rates have been moving up I mean since they hit their low in kind of late September.
We've seen some real help there.
So it's pretty volatile.
I think we're -- it's a little premature but I think those issues are closer to being on the radar screen than they were certainly a year ago and we'll continue to focus on it and we'll leave our options open at this point.
Research Division</strong> And I apologize if I missed this number but how much have you contributed to the plan year to date? Somewhere around I believe $75 million -- about $80 million total.
We have just a small amount that we're -- that we'll contribute to our guild plan between now and the end of the year but it's about $80 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on just October and Q4 outlook you mentioned digital has gotten a bit better.
I was just wondering if you could comment on print and whether you've seen any change in trend in print.
Not as of yet seeing a change in the trend on print.
There are several categories that continue to be quite strong have been strong all year.
Technology has had a lights out year.
We expect it to continue to grow.
Based on discussions we've had with advertisers and what we see in the pipeline our luxury segment had a very strong year.
And referring back to Janet's point about the fourth quarter we have reason to believe that they will continue to be a strong segment for us.
Of late healthcare and hotels have been quite strong as well.
All of these in both print and digital -- the print -- technology and print has had just an exceptional year and -- shed some light on the whole question of secular change because we saw the technology category shift quite decisively toward digital a few years ago with little expectation that it would come back to print.
And in fact it has come back into print very strongly as part of a cost platform strategy for so many of these advertisers and there's an important lesson that category I believe.
Telcom live entertainment department stores books all did well in Q3 and some of those categories should continue to do well into the future.
One thing I would just add to keep in mind is that BP percentage.
In the third quarter British Petroleum accounted for 2% of that decrease in print.
And as I noted in my remarks the effective minimal in the fourth quarter 2% is quite a large percentage of a decline that should be kept in mind.
Moving along we'll hear from Doug Arthur with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Yes Jim SG&amp;A if you adjust for severance I'm not sure how severance breaks out between production and SG&amp;A but I mean it's all on SG&amp;A.
You were down about 7% sequentially in SG&amp;A from Q2.
That's a pretty big drop.
Does that partly reflect a less launch costs with the paywall? And is that kind of level sustainable? Well the launch costs should go the other way.
We've actually spending more money year-over-year for marketing against the pay launch obviously.
We've spent several million dollars against that.
That's embedded.
I think a good part of that we've got some performance-based compensation issues some stock-based compensation.
There's been some lower professions lower professional fees.
I think that's largely driven that number down.
I think that if you look forward to the fourth quarter maybe that'll moderate a little but we are expecting kind of similar performance on the cost sides in the fourth quarter as we saw in the third as my guidance remarks would suggest.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one last question on cost.
You ended last year with about 7 400 FTEs company-wide.
Is that a figure that could be around 7 000 or lower by year end? Yes.
In fact the number at the end of September was about 7 200.
On a prior -- on a year-over-year basis that's down about 1.2% off of where we were last year at the end of September but it's about 7 200.
We'll move now to Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Regarding the pricing of the digital product the Sunday package is very strong.
And I hear a lot of people get the Sunday package because they get the online for free.
Have you thought about charging those folks $1 a week or something? You'd get an awful lot of additional dollars right to the bottom line.
Or generally price -- charge the print subscriber a little bit to get the online.
We're very happy with our pricing program as it currently stands.
And it's had as we've already noted a notable impact on volume trends and we like that.
We always say that we have pricing power and we look at all of our options to exercise that power and it's something that we think about.
And we're looking at all frequencies in regard to the orders during -- since the launch there are people who have been looking at new orders some in 7 days some in weekenders some in Sunday Ed.
And we of course reserve the right to your pricing advice.
We also of course reserve the right to increase pricing both on the print side and on the digital side if we feel like it's an appropriate time to do that.
We're always evaluating that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would you review the paid models for -- The Boston I believe is up and running.
Anything in the regionals? The regionals are doing very well in regard to digital advertising growth.
We have certainly that under consideration but I think it's a little early for the regionals to take that into consideration now.
Our Worcester Telegram &amp; Gazette is a paid site that in fact I think is celebrating its one-year anniversary this month.
They have seen some notable success particularly in regard to retention of the print subscribers and they have met all of their advertising commitments as well.
So it certainly is something to take into consideration for a broader group of our properties.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you mentioned -- Martin mentioned that things look a little better about at About.
Any sign of the ad business getting better along with the other improvements? Or getting much worse? I'm going to have Martin just give you an overview in regard to what we've done with the acceleration of the ad program or ad staff down there.
Yes.
Well first just in terms of the numbers.
I think as you go into 2012 and you look at the comps we should have some materially easier comps next year.
But to Janet's point I mean we have completely rebuilt the sales force beginning over the summer.
Her point about the new management team is spot on and we have a great deal of excitement about this new team which is led by Darline Jean and she and her team have really now fully staffed the advertising team as well.
So we think that there's significant potential as we go into next year at About.com both because we're cycling through some easier comps and because we have I think a much better team on the ground.
I should also add just to punctuate some of the things that Janet said we now have over 900 guide sites.
We've got a I think much more productive relationship with the guides based on new contract that we rolled out over the summer and which I think we're all very excited about in terms of guide productivity and commitment.
And we are -- the guide network is the centerpiece of the business and we continue to expand it as well as the Spanish-language portion of the business as well.
One thing that I've said repeatedly on these calls and I think some of the competition is now coming around to this perhaps is that we are focused on quality.
And we believe that over the long term as Google adjusts these -- it's algorithms to find quality on the web and to identify and surface it that we will be in a great position not only at our News Media Group where of course that's a foregone conclusion but at About as well because of our focus on this guide network and the great work that they do.
And so that will continue to be the focus in the business.
And as I say some of our competitors are now seem now to be coming around to this fact.
LLC Research Division</strong> Janet could you sort of go over the October of outlook for -- quarter? You've mentioned -- about the October going forward trend.
Could you just sort of summarize it again for me please? Well we said that indeed there was modest improvement going forward in October that we were seeing in the first part of October.
Modest improvements particularly on the digital side that's the guidance that we've given.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fashion seems to be hot.
Are you getting your share of fashion? Yes we've done very well.
And in my remarks I said that it's both international and American fashion and also accessory manufacturers that performed very well in the third quarter.
As I noted the fourth quarter is a very active period for luxury fashion beauty advertisers and also for retail so that is the category that we're keeping a very close eye on.
And certainly being very proactive in regard to getting our share of market and then some.
And this does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I'll turn things back over to Paula Schwartz for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks again.
Please give us a call if you have any follow-up questions.
And again this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to The New York Times Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Paula Schwartz.
You may begin.
Thank you Tricia and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We have several members of our senior management team here today to discuss our results with you including: Arthur Sulzberger Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Michael Golden Vice Chairman; Jim Follo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Heekin-Canedy President and General Manager of The Times.
All of the comparisons on this conference call will be for the fourth quarter of 2011 to the fourth quarter of 2010 unless otherwise stated.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2010 10-K.
Our presentation will also include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to our most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com.
Now I will turn the call over to Arthur.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
Looking back at 2011 I could use a number of adjectives to describe the year: challenging fascinating and to a great extent transformative.
Both in terms of our past but more importantly in terms of where we are heading 2011 will be remembered as the year in which we made unprecedented strides in our strategic evolution to a multi-platform organization.
The launch of digital subscription models both at The New York Times and The Boston Globe created a robust new revenue stream that contributed to the company's circulation revenue growth.
The positive consumer response to our digital subscription packages is a strong indication of the value users place on our brands especially our high-quality journalism and their willingness to pay for our content and convenient access across multiple platforms.
2011 was also a year in which we continued to realign our operations in the face of ongoing economic and secular challenges and strengthened our balance sheet while demonstrating at every turn our commitment to that special brand of journalism and high-quality information that defines The Times Company.
Let me review some of those highlights.
After extensive study research and development we launched paid digital subscriptions at our 2 largest news properties starting with The New York Times in March followed by The Boston Globe with BostonGlobe.com in October.
The International Herald Tribune also launched digital subscription packages in October.
In terms of business operations we have remained very diligent and disciplined in managing expenses while at the same time continuing to invest in digital initiatives across the company and providing the resources needed to produce the high-quality journalism across a growing array of devices.
We further strengthened our balance sheet and liquidity position with the early repayment of our highest interest debt in August.
Eliminating this debt from our balance sheet more than 3 years ahead of maturity provides us with increased financial flexibility.
In addition we continued to address our pension obligations and made sizable discretionary contributions.
Last month we sold our Regional Media Group for $143 million subject to certain adjustments further building our strong cash position.
This sale will enable the company to continue our transformation to a multi-platform media company and our pursuit of a strategy that focuses on development and diversification of our brand on a global scale.
Something I do want to address is a key investment area for us our continuing focus on maintaining what I believe to be the very best journalistic organization in the nation and perhaps internationally.
2011 was a year of dramatic news events particularly on the international scene.
And I'm proud to say that faithful to our tradition The Times Company's publications have provided some of the best and most in-depth coverage and analysis of this period.
In the face of ongoing change in our industry The New York Times Company continues to maintain a large and robust news organization one without parallel in the field.
We do it for a simple business reason: quality journalism and content are the core of our brand and our strategy.
As we approach the anniversary of the launch of The New York Times digital subscriptions which totaled 390 000 at the end of the fourth quarter we are excited and optimistic about our digital strategy.
NYTimes.com has maintained its strong reach with 33 million average monthly unique users in the U.S.
and 48 million globally in 2011.
Looking ahead we will continue to enhance our content our tools and our apps to increase the engagement of our users.
This also includes actively leveraging social media networks to encourage conversations and debates while engaging with our journalists.
The New York Times' main Facebook page now has nearly 2 million fans and our Twitter page has more than 4 million followers.
Finally at year end we saw the retirement of 2 of our senior executives Janet Robinson and Martin Nisenholtz.
We thank them for their leadership and their guidance and for the significant accomplishments over their careers that were critical as the company transformed into the leading global multimedia news and information organization it is today.
As for the CEO search it is in its early stages as our board seeks to find the appropriate executive with digital and brand-building experience to help guide this company and its long-term growth strategy.
For the present we are fortunate to be able to rely on a very strong deep and extremely talented management team that remains focused on maximizing shareholder value.
To that point Michael Golden is currently playing an interim role with the New England Media Group reporting to him while Jim Follo is doing the same with the About business unit.
These roles will ensure each unit has the necessary ongoing direction and guidance as we continue to execute on our strategy to transform and rebalance our business.
We will accomplish this through a combination of prudent fiscal management a strong focus on diversifying our revenue streams and strengthening our digital businesses and the pursuit of new opportunities for growth.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Jim Follo.
Thank you Arthur and good morning everyone.
Our fourth quarter and full year results reflect a challenging advertising marketplace which continues to be affected by the slow economic recovery.
But despite these headwinds we achieved 3% growth and operating profit both before depreciation amortization severance and special items in the quarter primarily through incremental subscription revenues resulting from the launch of The Times new digital model and through continued focus on cost management.
Our Digital subscription initiatives remain our top priority in the fourth quarter as The Times continue to build on its digital subscriber base and BostonGlobe.com pay site began charging for the first time.
We remain confident in our ability to continue to build a robust revenue stream centered on charging for access to our award-winning content.
In the fourth quarter overall circulation revenues continued to see a robust -- see robust growth from digital pay products especially at The Times.
Total circulation revenues were up 5% for the company and 8% for The Times Media Group.
It is worth noting that The Times in particular has seen benefits to home delivery circulation following the launch of digital subscriptions due to an uptick in new orders and improved retention rates relative to the period prior to the launch.
The advertising marketplace remains soft in the fourth quarter.
Digital advertising revenue was down 5% driven by continued challenges at the About Group which saw a 26% decline in advertising revenue while digital advertising revenue across the News Media Group posted a 5% gain.
Rounding out the quarterly revenue numbers.
Total revenues for the company declined 3% with advertising down 7% and circulation revenues up 5%.
Print advertising trends improved slightly from the third quarter and finished down 8%.
We maintained our sharp focus on managing costs in the quarter to mitigate the effects of the overall revenue declines on our operating performance.
The company's operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance in the quarter declined 5% to $23 million.
The cost decline was 4% on a GAAP basis.
And in addition to the operating profit metric I've mentioned earlier on a GAAP basis we reported operating profit from continuing operations of $107 million in the fourth quarter compared to $112 million in the same period in 2010.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding severance expense and special items was $0.45 in the fourth quarter down $0.01 from the same period in 2010 principally due to a higher effective tax rate in 2011 quarter.
On a GAAP basis we reported diluted earnings per share of $0.39 from continuing operations in the quarter compared to $0.44 in the fourth quarter of the 2010 period.
Returning to our digital initiatives.
At the end of the quarter The Times Media Group had 390 000 paid digital subscribers up 20% from the third quarter.
This number includes subscribers to the IHT -- to The Times and IHT digital packages e-readers and Replica editions.
The Boston Globe had about 16 000 paid digital subscribers to BostonGlobe.com also including e-reader and Replica editions.
At the end of 2011 the sponsorship of more than 100 000 highly-engaged Times users came to an end.
We expect to continue to convert a significant number of those readers to digital subscribers in the first half of 2012.
We have received very positive feedback and critical acclaim on BostonGlobe.com's clean design and we expect to develop a loyal audience.
The site went live in September and moved forward with its pay model in mid-October.
Unlike NYTimes.com which already had a strong reach when it launched its paid model BostonGlobe.com is an entirely new site and we expect it will take some time to build a following and to grow its digital subscriber base.
At the beginning of the first quarter we completed the sale of our Regional Media Group for $143 million of cash or approximately $150 million after tax benefit.
We will book an after-tax gain of about  $32 million on the transaction in the first quarter.
We retained the pension assets and existing pension and postretirement obligations that were part of the group.
The group's results are part of our 2011 financial results from continuing operations and separate 2010 and 2011 quarterly financial information for the group is provided in today's earnings release.
The group's results will be reported as a discontinued operations beginning in 2012.
Now let me provide more depth on the fourth quarter revenues.
At the News Media Group which included The Times New England and Regional Media groups for the fourth quarter growth in digital advertising was up 5% but could not offset an 8% decrease in print advertising.
The group's total advertising revenue which declined 5% year-over-year in the quarter declined 7% in October and November and 2% in December.
The group's growth in digital advertising was led by increases in national display most notably December.
In the fourth quarter we also saw digital gains in retail display as well as in 2 major classified advertising categories automotive and recruitment.
Within the News Media Group the Times Media Group -- at The Times Media Group while overall revenues were up 1% in the quarter advertising revenues were down 4% and solid growth in digital display was more than offset by print declines.
Aggregate national advertising declined and aggregate retail and classified advertising were also lower.
The Times digital strategy is now focused on continuing to grow its subscriber base and extend its digital brand.
We are confident that our plan to sustain momentum through the rollout of a series of new features functions and content will enable us to steadily build our digital progress to date further broadening our audience and solidifying the loyalty of our existing readers.
For instance we continue to build on our paid model initiatives most recently enhanced during our Times offerings by including shared access for additional login for home delivery and all digital subscribers one-click subscriptions in iTunes and through Apple's Newsstand group corporate accounts gift subscriptions free access to NYTimes for Kindle and NOOK subscribers of The Times and special rates for college students faculty and administrators.
We plan to launch group accounts for education subscribers soon.
Ongoing investment on our unmatched content will continue to be a critical component of our digital strategy as we expand some current content to drive increased engagement levels and additional points of access and create some entirely new homes for content.
For instance our new iPad app The Collection fashion app will soon be -- will soon require a digital subscription for full access.
The Times is also planning an expansion this spring of our popular health blog Well and recently enhanced our technology blog Bits to incorporate a larger B2B focus with deeper coverage of the technology industry.
Our premium advertisers have been quick to embrace these new and expanded environments.
Our print platform has benefited from a digital strategy as well.
The benefits to home delivery circulation were especially evident in the most recent ABC report with the 6-month period ending September 2011 in which The Times Sunday home delivery volume showed positive year-over-year growth the first increase in home delivery circulation in 5 years and another clear indicator of the multi-platform demand for our products.
The Times remains the most highly circulated Sunday newspaper in the United States.
Our overall average circulation capturing The Times new digital subscriptions for the first time was more than 1.6 million on Sunday and just under 1.2 million on weekdays.
Also on the circulation side at the beginning of 2012 the Times instituted a price increase of 4% on average for home delivery across all days of the week and a $0.50 per copy rate increase for weekday newsstand addition.
This is our first increase in 2.5 years.
We anticipate this change will improve Times' circulation revenue 2012 despite the slight volume decline that inevitably accompany a price increase in addition to the effects of the new revenue stream from The Times digital pay model.
At The New England Media Group advertising revenues declined 11% in the quarter mainly due to weakness in print advertising.
Overall national ad revenue was down and total retail advertising revenue was also lower.
Digital classified ad revenue showed strong growth reflecting increases in every major category: automotive real estate and recruitment -- but combined classified advertising revenue was down resulting from continued print weakness.
Moving on to the About Group.
Total revenues declined 26% to $26 million in the fourth quarter with decreases in cost-per-click and display advertising contributed almost equally to the decline.
About faced a variety of challenges in 2011 but we believe we are on the right path.
We have made key changes there including a new management team and About has aggressively responded to increased competition in both display and search advertising markets.
Declines in CPC advertising in the fourth quarter resulted from lower click-through rates or the rate at which users are accessing these CPC advertisements.
We also saw a decline in advertising rates for CPC ads which was in line with the marketplace.
On the display side About has also been rolling out a disciplined sales plan to better leverage the site's strong reach averaging 60 million unique visitors in the U.S.
and 100 million globally in the fourth quarter.
The site completely rebuilt its sales force in the second half of 2011 and is optimistic about the potential for this new team.
We believe this renewed sales focus will prove instrumental in revitalizing About's display advertising business.
In the fourth quarter About began to see positive impact on traffic which affects both CPC and display advertising but that was offset by click-through rates and ad rates on the CPC side and the necessary ramp up time for the new sales team on the display side.
We expect the turnaround in this business to take some time as our sales and marketing efforts gain traction and page view growth improves.
Accordingly we don't expect to see meaningful improvement in revenue trends until the second half of 2012 particularly on the CPC side.
The About Group's operating costs declined 7% in the fourth quarter and operating costs excluding depreciation amortization and severance decreased 5% to $15 million primarily due to lower marketing and compensation expenses.
Operating profit declined to $5 million in the quarter.
Getting back to the larger company and drilling down on the cost discussion a bit more our focus on controlling expenses was evident in the fourth quarter and will remain a priority through 2012.
Operating costs excluding depreciation amortization and severance decreased 5% in the quarter mainly due to lower variable compensation costs and newsprint expense and 2% for the year despite increased costs associated with our digital initiatives in 2011.
That said we do expect costs to increase modestly this year for the first time in several years.
We plan to prudently increase spending in 2012 as we continue to invest in our digital capabilities and subscription acquisition efforts invest in About sales and marketing efforts and reset our variable compensation targets even as we expect these expense savings in our production and distribution operations and from further leveraging our centralized processes and resources.
Already in 2012 we announced the consolidation of most of Worcester's printing into The Globe facility which is expected to begin in the second quarter.
The Globe facility is also taking on printing and delivery of a local competitor resulting in higher production costs as well as associated revenues.
This deal will be accretive to our performance beginning this month.
In 2011 our liquidity position improved even as we paid down several items.
And after year end it further benefited from the RMG sale.
As of year end we maintained a cash position of $280 million while contributing $151 million to our pension plan last year with $80 million of that in the fourth quarter and paying back up 14% notes more than 3 years early this past August.
Our cash position will be more than $400 million once RMG's -- January's RMG sale is factored in.
And we also have entered into an agreement to sell 100 of our remaining units in the Fenway Sports Group for an aggregate purchase price of $30 million subject to receipt of approvals from Major League Baseball.
Two of our priorities for cash will be managing the underfunded levels of our pension plans and paying off our $75 million 4.61% notes that mature later this year.
Also on that front we reduced our net debt to $493 million at the end of 2011 from $597 million at year end 2010.
Depreciation and amortization decreased to $29 million in the quarter and to $116 million for the year.
In 2012 we expect depreciation and amortization to be between $105 million and $110 million with accelerated depreciation expense related to the Worcester consolidation expected to drive depreciation and amortization to $31 million in the first quarter.
A little more on our pension obligations.
For accounting purposes on a GAAP basis based on preliminary results the underfunded status of the company's qualified pension plans at December 25 2011 was approximately $525 million compared to approximately $440 million at the end of 2010.
The funded status of the company's qualified pension plans was negatively affected primarily by the decline in interest rates in 2011.
Since the majority of our pension plans are now frozen actuarial gains and losses from interest rate changes and asset performance are amortized over a longer period of time and therefore are not expected to have significant impact on pension expense in 2012 relative to 2011.
We will make mandatory contributions primarily in connection with The New York Times Newspaper Guild plan of approximately $44 million of this year and may make further discretionary contributions to our company-qualified plans as well.
Turning to our outlook.
In the first quarter the advertising environment remains challenging reflecting uncertain economic conditions and we expect total advertising revenue trends similar to the levels of the fourth quarter of 2011.
We expect to see the continued benefit from our digital subscription issues as well as from print circulation price increases at The Times and total circulation revenues are projected to increase in the high single digits in the first quarter.
As I alluded to earlier operating expenses are expected to increase in the low single digits in the first quarter.
In summary our 2011 results reflect the stable progress we have made last year in a challenging environment.
The initial digital subscription numbers and the growth in digital advertising revenue to News Media Group reaffirm that our advertisers and readers are embracing our world-class content across multiple platforms.
And with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to the line of John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jim I think you've had maybe 16 to 17 consecutive quarters of expense declines with the News Media.
I know you spoke to some of the investments but I think newsprint doesn't seem to be an issue.
And so is the assumption that headcount will be flat and I guess maybe how confident can you be in the About investments given the rapid change in the marketplace? Look I gave a little bit of color on the cost increases.
Look I think we will be adaptable as we always are in the cost side of the business and as we see revenues develop we'll adjust accordingly.
But there are several factors that will impact that cost increase.
As I said we are adding a fair amount of commercial printing markup in New England that comes with cost and revenues marketing and customer acquisition and investments in our digital products will be part of that as well.
And we'll be adding some heads in that area as well.
A little too early to make a call on headcounts overall.
On About I think you had asked about About as well John? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Look I think we've made great progress.
I mean we're -- we've made great progress on the display side.
I think we're in a good place and we really got a fully rebuilt sales staff on the display side.
I think we're beginning to execute way better and we think we're on the right path there.
And we'll see.
But we're confident we've done everything we can to put us in the best place.
I think on the CPC side I think you've seen -- we saw in the fourth quarter the first time we've seen positive page view growth for the year.
We started the year at about negative 10 on the page view and we're actually slightly positive.
And we expect to continue to grow page view growth.
I think that will be critical to turning around the CPC side.
We're very focused as well on maximizing click-through on the Google ads as well and we're taking -- we've got some significant number of initiatives to drive that as well.
And then of course as you get deeper in the year I think the comps get easier so I think all those things together should put us in a better place.
I think there's a lot of work to be done but I don't think there's much more we can do than what we're doing now and I think we still remain confident we'll be able to turn it around..
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe can you also -- can you provide a little more detail on the Lincoln conversions? It sounds that you should have maybe a bit more of a fairly precise estimate given the timing of the -- when those roll off? We know quite precisely what the conversions are.
We're not prepared to disclose them.
The conversion program started in early December and we had a very nice start.
In terms of the growth that we saw in the fourth quarter it's a factor but not the major factor in the fourth quarter growth we've -- that Jim reported.
The significant conversions are taking place with the turn on the calendar year as you would expect because the complementary nature of that access ended on December 31.
And we're progressing quite a bit ahead of where we thought we would be by the end of January.
We expect it to take several months for the conversion to fully play out.
And we're -- overall those conversions are probably double of the rate of the kind of the next most engaged users if you will that we experienced in the early part of the launch.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One quick one also for Jim.
Sorry for taking up so much time but if I missed this forgive me.
Can you please give us an update on your thoughts on returning cash to shareholders? Look in my remarks I said we're still dealing with an underfunded pension which as I said has widened this year given the very low interest rate environment and like we said we're obviously very very highly sensitive to interest rates.
Interest rates going backwards this year.
We have a debt maturity that comes due later in the year $75 million.
We are well prepared.
As I said we'll have post the RMG sale and then just -- we just announced the Fenway Sports Group sale.
It will put us meaningfully north of $400 million and continue to grow cash.
I think it puts us in a way better place.
But as of right now we'd like to see a little bit more movement a little bit help in the interest rates so that we can confidently address those issues.
We'll take our next question from Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Jim just to clarify when -- in terms of your Q1 guidance on circulation that's for the total Media Group correct? Well it's total circulation revenues an item on our P&amp;L which is all -- which is all News Media Group.
That would -- and that would strip out any Regional Media Group numbers which should be relatively insignificant.
But that would be ongoing operations New York Times Boston Globe together.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Right right right.
So the implication then is that the -- with the pay wall momentum at The Times one would assume then that the circulation and the price increase hefty price increase that circulation revenues at the Times Media Group would be probably double digit then? Well we're high single digits with -- on a combined basis.
That would be a reasonable estimate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on one detail.
I'm not sure if you said this.
What were your -- what were the -- what are the FTEs now pro forma for the sale of the regionals? Well the regionals took about 1 700 employees out.
I think we -- prior to that we had about 7 500 employees so somewhere in that neighborhood is about the headcount.
That was about by the way about 2% down year-over-year prior to pulling out RMG.
Doug I'm sorry that would be -- that would give you about 5 600 post RMG.
We'll go next to Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
A few questions.
First one just to help us clarify if you would how did the monthly ad revenue trends progress on a year-over-year basis for the News Media Group? I think in my remarks we were down about -- advertising down 7% in November December about 2% -- October November negative 7%; about 2% in December.
We faced some easier comps in December relative to October November.
And then how would you say the January fared? Look as we said we think the first quarter will likely be in line with what we saw in the fourth quarter on -- as an average of those 3 months.
So that would look well I'd say largely suggest that what we saw in December was I think more comp driven than I think economically driven.
Well it's definitely comp driven and also it was holiday season.
So I wouldn't read a whole lot into that monthly improvement.
What's governing the advertising climate is one the secular shifts across platforms and two particularly in the second half of last year the economic climate and the huge uncertainty that affected business conditions.
And that uncertainty continues into the first quarter.
Okay.
And then also on the cost front here your guidance for about 1% to 3% in the first quarter.
Can you just talk a little bit further about that? Why the upper pressure? And also are you expecting that for the full year in that sort of range? Well look at my remarks I called out a few items.
We are spending money to acquire digital subscriptions.
You want to keep that momentum going.
We're also investing in costs related to our digital initiatives and continuing to build out our content offerings there.
We do reset our kind of performance-based programs each year that will create a negative comparison.
As I said we're also -- we're taking on a bit of commercial framework.
That comes with some revenues but it certainly flows through costs.
And I would also point out on the kind of the digital acquisition side we will be recording sales of e-readers on a gross basis.
And there's as I think you all know that there's a commission associated with that.
We'll be reporting our revenues on a gross basis and we expect to see a meaningful cost increase just related to recording that on a gross basis going forward as well.
Those are the key factors.
I think -- as I said I think we'll have to be adaptable to the revenue environment as we see fit but right now that's our plan.
So -- and as far as -- many of those factors are kind of not necessarily isolated to the first quarter.
I'm not going to get into specifics by giving forward guidance on cost but I would suggest that those items I listed are not kind of one-time one-quarter items but are likely to persist throughout the year.
And then lastly if I could.
This 390 000 pay wall digital subscribers it looks like it's not totally apples-to-apples with the number you've reported for the third quarter because I guess it now includes IHT contribution.
Did IHT contribute what roughly say 10 000 subscribers to that? Or what's like the number please? That's a good estimate.
The IHT launched -- already was in the marketplace with e-reader subscriptions and launched their subscription packages in October.
So those numbers are now rolled into the total.
And then if I -- lastly on this I'm sorry.
Last quarter I believe you guys said it was about 57 000 came from e-readers and Replicas.
Was that -- how much was that number this time around please? Not materially different.
That's supposed to be a relatively stable number.
We tend to see material changes coming out of the holiday sales of those devices so that information lags to us from those vendors.
And we'll expect to see those probably by the time we report Q1.
What would this IHT number -- I'm sorry.
This IHT number what was it in the prior 2 quarters? Do you know? Maybe I am not sure exactly when it was launched but...
Maybe half of that.
Their e-reader base was probably about 5 000.
We'll take our next question from William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was wondering if we could just start with About.
I was just wondering what contributes to your confidence that the business can turn in the second half? And then I guess on expenses related to About what do you expect the expense profile for that business to look like in '12? Look on the expense side we're investing in sales staff and marketing and there's a couple of other items we'll be investing in so I think we'll see a meaningful pickup in expenses next year for About.
Look as far as the confidence as I said we started the year on page view down about 10%.
We ended the year up 2%.
I think we'll get some boost once we cycle with some of the changes that Google made throughout 2011.
So I think on the page view side we will -- we are planning on seeing better page view growth and I think that should help quite a bit on the CPC side.
I think we're doing a lot of things around optimizing pages and optimizing click-throughs the ads which we expect to see some fruits of our labor as well.
So I think those are the 2 primary points on the CPC side.
And on the display side I can only say we feel really good about the staff the built.
I think we went through a pretty difficult period with both staff turnover and some execution issues that I think are behind us.
And we're going to be watching that carefully and we expect to see much better performance as those people gain traction in the market.
That's what gives us the confidence.
Research Division</strong> And we're just a month or so into the first quarter.
Have you seen any shrinkage in the rate of decline at About in the first quarter? Like as I said I think our total revenues including About will be about what we saw in the fourth quarter.
So that would suggest we'll see maybe some modest improvement.
But I think we’re really focused much more on the back half of the year to see meaningful improvement.
Research Division</strong> And just separately I was just wondering if you have any more Lincoln-like sub promos in the works? We're in discussions with advertisers about other types of programs but we're not prepared to announce any at this point.
We'll take our next question from Alexia Quadrani for JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question on your comments on About.
I know you enjoyed many years of good growth from that investment.
But now with the structural changes with the change in Google is it as an attractive a business longer term? I mean I guess I'm trying to get a sense of do you think it's sort of a core holding for New York Times? Look About has been and continues to be a good business for us and generates quite a bit cash flow.
Our focus very much right now is to get that business moving back into the right direction.
And as I said we think we're on that path and that's really where our focus is right now.
But it has been and we think will continue to be a good business for us.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the Boston Globe digital subscribers is there any you could sort of give us a framework of how we should think of that number longer term? I know it's sort of a recent initiative but any kind of ballpark of what you think would be a good number to achieve in terms of number of digital subscribers.
This is Michael Golden.
We're not making a forecast as to the numbers in the future.
But we believe that this will continue to grow.
The number of unique visitors coming to the combination of Boston.com and BostonGlobe.com has increased significantly.
They have like The Times consciously built a porous pay wall.
So high number of visitors and a lot of opportunity to refine the site and the subscriber acquisition programs.
We'll take our next question from Leo Kulp with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about -- you should have some easier comps this year because of the anniversary of BP spill.
But then you also have probably a weaker technology outlook.
Can you talk about sort of how you're looking at the comps by sector going into 2012? Weaker technology meaning the comps are tough? Is that your point there Leo? Research Division</strong> Yes.
The comps are tough because of all the tablet launches and that sort of thing.
Well as you know we had a terrific year last year in the technology category across print and digital.
And we've got -- based on conversations with key accounts we've got lots of reasons to believe that this coming year will be another good year in that -- for that category.
The corporate sector as a whole a number of the national accounts are off to what I would characterize as a slow start in terms of methods.
But there is lots of activity in the pipeline in the corporate category itself probably double the number of RFPs versus a year ago.
So the economic climate of uncertainty that has carried over into Q1 I think if I can make a sweeping generalization that a lot of the categories are taking stock of the climate at the same time preparing lots of plans for spending.
So there are a couple of categories in particular transportation where we would expect -- where we're fully expecting those campaigns to launch in Q2 barring changes in the economic climate.
So it's a slow start to the year I guess is the way to characterize it.
But reason to believe we're going to have some good results in key categories from national.
Leo I think you had asked the question about BP.
BP was more of a Regional Media Group issue than it was a New York Times media Group issue less than 1 point of the decline for -- in advertising revenue for The New York Times Media Group which related to that comparison and all my comments about forward transfer excluding regional.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then can you also talk a little bit about what's driven this kind of meaningful slowdown in The New York Times or the whole News Media Group digital revenue and how you plan to address that going forward? At The New York Times there's a tail of 2 halves last year.
The first half except for the period around the Japanese tsunami we had very very robust digital growth.
And then in the second half and I believe I made comments to this effect on the third quarter call we started to see the uncertainty that was -- that are -- our print spending was so sensitive to started to get a grip on the digital spending as well.
And we're seeing that uncertainty carry in to Q1 but we can expect it to mitigate as we get into the year.
So in other words we expect digital to get -- it's got comps -- that were an issue in the first half and are a benefit in the second half.
And then the economic climate as it affects the digital spend we expect to begin to change as well.
We'll take our next question from Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I got a couple of questions.
One could you talk about your digital pricing strategy for 2012 number one? And Jim could you remind me when you bumped up the circulation prices at The Times last year? And then thirdly you were talking about some categories.
Could you go through the major categories luxury fashion et cetera.
And lastly how are the magazines doing and are they going to be continued in 2012? Not the Sunday magazine the other magazines.
We may have to get a recap of those questions but I'll start with the only one that you asked me.
We did not have any price increase last year for anything on the circulation side so.
LLC Research Division</strong> I thought you raised the cover price? 2.5 years ago.
2009 was the last time we increased our prices.
And that would be about the same for The Globe as well.
We have -- last year we had no price increases in our circulation.
Ed your question about digital rates was that advertising or subscription? LLC Research Division</strong> Subscription rates.
There's a lot of giveaways subscribers -- a lot of subscribers don't pay et cetera.
So was there any there any change in the thinking regarding the pricing of the digital product? Our digital subscribers pay.
There's an introductory offer $0.99 for the first month.
But then they convert to full rate at the end of the month.
And that conversion rate is very strong.
Categories in the fourth quarter is a continuation of the story that we saw throughout the year.
The luxury segment performed very strongly in Q4.
Transportation category primarily from airline advertising turned into a strong positive for us whereas it had been a significant negative in the prior 3 quarters.
Media became a strong performer as well in Q4.
Some modest growth or flash performance from books live entertainment automotive healthcare.
The technology category continued to be a positive factor in print but it was negative in digital making it negative overall.
And that was a comp story unusual strong spending in Q4 prior year.
Financial category is in a negative performance to Q4 as well as corporate hotels and residential real estate.
And your -- I'm sorry your question on magazines? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
The -- not the Sunday magazine but the quarterly Times Magazine.
Well looking at the magazine in total for the year last year we had very low single-digit declines and we performed better than the magazine industry as a whole.
LLC Research Division</strong> Are you going to continue maintaining those magazines? Those are lucrative products yes.
Yes.
That will conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Ms.
Schwartz I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you so much for joining us today and please give us a call if you have any follow-up questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for your participation.
This will conclude today's conference call.
Good day and welcome to the The New York Times Company's First Quarter Earnings 2012 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Paula Schwartz.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
We have several members of our senior managing team here to discuss our results with you including Arthur Sulzberger Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Heekin-Canedy President and General Manager of The Times.
All of the comparisons on this conference call will be for the first quarter of 2012 to the first quarter of 2011 unless otherwise stated.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2011 10-K.
Our presentation will also include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Arthur Sulzberger.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to say that 2012 is off to a good start.
Our first quarter results are a testament to our successful digital strategy.
Just one year after launching digital subscriptions at The Times subscribers to pay digital products across the company totaled approximately 472 000.
Our strategy has provided a model for the rest of the industry and we continue to see reports that a growing number of U.S.
newspapers are adopting metered models.
Even as the advertising environment remains challenging on both the print and digital fronts this year we expect to build on that strong start as we embark on our second year of paid digital subscriptions.
We are exploring opportunities to deepen our readers engagement through mobile video and social media all of which have been growing rapidly.
And we are investigating opportunities to further extend The Times brand and expand its global footprint.
As an example in February we launched Science Times China a monthly magazine based on our Science Times coverage translated into Chinese and distributed in the largest cities in China.
Underlying most of our growth opportunities is our award-winning journalism the strength and depth of which are unmatched in the industry.
It was announced earlier this week that for the second consecutive year all 3 newspaper units owned by The Times in 2011 won Pulitzer Prizes.
The New York Times won 2 for Explanatory and International Reporting.
The Boston Globe won for Film Criticism and the Tuscaloosa News won for Breaking News Reporting.
While the global news environment continues to change dramatically our quality journalism with its broad scope and in-depth analysis positions us as a continued leader in the news space.
Disciplined cost management is a key element of managing our business.
Our challenge remains how do we maintain our high-quality journalism while further reshaping our company for the future.
This involves the careful balancing of our investments to support our digital initiatives while finding further cost efficiencies across our organization.
During the quarter we made progress on our search for a new CEO.
Our Board of Directors has retained the global search firm Spencer Stuart and we are looking both internally and externally for an executive who meets our needs.
We will take the time necessary to find the right person for the role.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Follo.
Thanks Arthur and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results reflect continued strength in the circulation side of our business led by the introduction about a year ago of the Times digital subscription packages as well as solid cost management which together enabled us to achieve 9% growth in operating profit for depreciation amortization and severance.
This growth was despite continued uncertainty in the advertising marketplace.
In the financial results reported earlier this morning the results of the Regional Media Group which was sold early in the first quarter are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
We continue to refine and build upon our digital subscription initiatives in the first quarter.
The Times recently reduced its pay meter count to 10 articles from the original 20 in both The Times and BostonGlobe.com were that digital subscriber basis in the quarter.
We are pleased with our progress to date in creating a robust new revenue stream based upon charging for digital access across -- access to our award-winning content.
Overall circulation revenues were again bolstered by these digital pay products especially at The Times.
Total circulation revenues were up 10% for the company and 13% for The Times Media Group in the quarter.
A new consumer revenue stream was enhanced by the improvement in home delivery circulation we have seen following the launch of digital subscriptions in the form of new orders and approved retention rates as well as by the print price increases implemented by The Times at the beginning of the year.
While total revenues for the company were flat the advertising environment again presented challenges in the first quarter.
Digital advertising revenue was down 10% driven by ongoing challenges at the About Group which saw a 24% decline in advertising revenues while digital advertising revenue at the News Media Group decreased 2%.
Print advertising trends improved slightly from the fourth quarter and finished down 7% while overall advertising revenues were down 8%.
We maintained our focus on managing cost in the quarter.
The company's operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance declined 1%.
On a GAAP basis costs were up 1% as we reported operating profit from continuing operations of $20 million in the first quarter compared to $26 million in the same period of 2011.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding severance and special items was $0.08 in the first quarter compared to flat in the same period of 2011.
On a GAAP basis we reported diluted EPS of $0.09 per share from continuing operations in the quarter compared to $0.02 in the first quarter of 2011.
Returning to our digital initiatives.
As we recently announced in conjunction with the anniversary of our digital subscriptions as of March 18 The Times Media Group have 454 000 paid digital subscribers up 16% from the fourth quarter.
This number includes subscriptions to The Times the International Herald Tribune digital packages eReaders and Replica editions.
The Boston Globe had 18 000 paid digital subscribers to BostonGlobe.com as of March 18 also including eReaders and Replica editions.
The sponsorship of more than 100 000 Times users ended in December and we have already converted a large number of these digital -- of these readers to digital subscriptions and we expect to continue that process into the second quarter.
In addition to the sale of our Regional Media Group for $140 million in January in the first quarter we also completed the sale of 100 units -- 100 of our remaining units of Fenway Sports Group for $30 million resulting in $18 million pretax gain.
We still own 210 units and continue to actively market that remaining stake.
Now let me provide more depth on our first quarter revenues.
At the News Media Group digital advertising showed weakness and was down 2% while print advertising decreased 7%.
The group's total advertising revenues which declined 6% year-over-year in the quarter saw a sequential improvement in the last 2 months declining 9% in January 7% in February and 2% in March.
The group's weakness in digital advertising was led by declines in real estate classified and national display which was soft in the first 2 months of the year but returned to healthy growth in March.
In the first quarter we saw digital gains in retail display as well as the automotive classified category.
Within the News Media Group -- at The Times Media Group while overall revenues were up 3% in the quarter advertising revenues were down 5%.
This growth in both print and digital retail advertising was more than offset by national and classified print declines.
Aggregate national advertising declined and aggregate classified advertising was also lower.
The Times digital strategy is focused on continuing to grow its subscriber base and extend its digital brand.
We plan to build on our success in the second year of our paid digital subscription offerings through both the recent pay gate adjustment to 10 free articles and through the ongoing rollout of new features functions and content.
Most recently we enhanced our Times offering by including group corporate accounts and special rates for colleges -- for college students faculty and administrators.
We plan to launch group accounts for educators education subscribers in the second quarter.
Ongoing investment our content will be continue to be a critical component of our digital strategy as we expand some current content to drive increased engagement levels and create some entirely new homes for content.
For instance The Times just this week redesigned its popular health blog Well to better showcase the breadth of its expanded health and wellness content and remain focused on building our offerings particularly in areas of mobile social media and video.
In the first quarter for instance The Times launched Business Day Live a video program that features original news reports from The Times business media and technology desks on NYTimes.com homepage every weekday morning.
The program is broadcast live from The Times newsroom and complements The Times' past report that appears on NYTimes.com on weekday afternoons.
Premium advertisers are increasingly embracing such environments.
Our print platform has been positively impacted by our digital strategy as well.
The initial benefits to home delivery circulation should again be evident in our upcoming ABC report for the period ended March 2012 capturing the continued early success for pay gate.
The Times Sunday home delivery volume again showed positive year-over-year growth in that 6-month period this time at nearly 2%.
This latest data is another clear indicator of the multi-platform demand for our products.
Also on the circulation side at the beginning of 2012 The Times instituted a price increase of 4% on average for home delivery across all days of the week and a $0.50 per copy rate increase for weekday single copy edition.
This was our first increase in 2.5 years.
We anticipate this change will contribute to improve -- improvement at Times circulation revenues 2012 despite the slight volume declines that inevitably accompany a price increase.
At the New England Media Group advertising revenues declined 12% in the quarter mainly due to weakness in print advertising.
Overall national ad revenue was down and total retail advertising revenue was also lower.
Digital classified ad revenue showed growth reflecting increases in automotive and recruitment while combined classified revenue was down resulting from continued print weakness.
On the circulation front in April The Globe instituted a price increase of $0.25 per copy for weekday single-copy edition in the Boston Metro area and $0.50 outside that area.
For seven-day home delivery customers there will be a price increase of about 6%.
The Sunday-only rates will remain unchanged.
This was also The Globe's first circulation increase since 2009.
At the beginning of the second quarter The Globe also launched a new digital Replica edition enabling subscribers to enjoy the actual print edition enhanced with digital features on their computers tablets and mobile devices.
The Boston Globe ePay port is available on BostonGlobe.com as well as in the iTunes store as an iPad and an iPhone app.
Moving on to The About Group.
Total revenues decreased 23% to $24 million in the first quarter with decreases in cost-per-click and display advertising both contributing to the decline.
About is beginning to show progress in its turnaround efforts particularly on the display side but there is still more work to be done.
The group continues to aggressively respond to increased competition in both display and search advertising markets and we are moving forward with a variety of initiatives to address these challenges.
Declines in CPC advertising in the first quarter continue to result from lower click-through rates.
Lower advertising rates for CPC ads remained an issue as well a trend that was in line with the marketplace.
In the fourth quarter About began to see positive impact on traffic and that trend continued into the first quarter with page views up 6% in the quarter.
However the traffic strength was offset by lower click-through rates and ad rates on the CPC side and the gradual ramp up of the new sales team on the display side.
As a result we don't expect to see meaningful improvement revenue trends until the second half of 2012 when display advertising expected to return to growth.
On the display side About made strides in its sales plan to better leverage the site's strong reach averaging 60 million monthly unique visitors in the U.S.
in the first quarter.
The group rebuilt its sales staff in the second half of 2011 and a slowly increasing sales activity.
With that said much of the team is still new and it will take time to perfect its execution.
The About Group's operating costs were flat in the first quarter and operating costs excluding depreciation amortization and severance increased 4% to $15 million.
Operating costs in the first quarter of 2011 were reduced by a benefit from the sale of UCompareHealthCare.com which more than offset the declines in compensation and benefit expense in the first quarter of 2012.
Operating profit declined for $7 million in the quarter.
On a company-wide basis our focus on controlling expenses as a reduction of operating costs excluding depreciation amortization and severance by 1% in the quarter mainly due to lower benefits and outside printing expense partially offset by higher compensation and various other costs.
However we still expect costs to increase modestly this year.
We plan to increase spending as we continue to invest in our digital capabilities and subscription acquisition efforts invest in About sales and marketing efforts reset our variable compensation targets even as we expect expense savings in our production and distribution operations and from further leveraging our centralized processes and resources.
Early this second quarter we completed the consolidation of most of the Worcester Telegram &amp; Gazette's printing into The Globe's facility.
The Globe has also begun to see the financial benefit from printing and delivering a local competitor resulting in higher production costs as well as the associated revenues.
In the first quarter our liquidity position was improved further as we recognized the cash proceeds from the January's Regional Media Group sale and February sale of our Fenway Sports Group shares bringing our cash position to $431 million.
Two of our priorities for this cash will be managing our underfunded levels of our pension plans and paying off our $75 million 4.6% notes that mature later this year.
Depreciation amortization increased to $32 million in the quarter with the increase entirely attributable to the accelerated depreciation expense related to the Worcester consolidation which was $7 million.
Turning to our outlook in the second quarter advertising trends for the News Media Group are expected to be similar to the first quarter levels while at the About Group advertising revenue trends are expected to improve modestly.
Although at the beginning of the second quarter we cycle through the first full year of our digital subscription packages at The Times.
We expect to see continued benefits from these initiatives as well as from the print price increases.
And total circulation revenues are projected to increase in the high single digits in the second quarter.
And as I alluded to earlier operating expenses are expected to increase in the low single digits from the second quarter.
And with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take the first question from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on could you give us some color of how -- what you're seeing in April so far in terms of print advertising trends.
I think you said that Q2 should be similar to Q1? But it seems like Q1 ended in sort of a period of strength from starting from weakness in January? I wonder if the numbers you saw in March have continued into April? Alexia this is Scott.
April is off to a slow start compared to the last couple months of Q1 as Jim noted.
We saw a sequential improvement in Q1 but as I've said in the last several quarters the month-to-month results are very volatile.
And it's in large part a reflection of the way advertisers approach their spending plans.
They tend to be characterized by last-minute decisions and short-term planning horizons.
So in April we're seeing a slowdown compared to February and March.
The stronger categories in April corporate automotive luxury continues to be strong for us as it was in Q1 and all of last year while we had a really strong Q1 for entertainment driven by the Oscar season and the strong product lineup from studios.
We're seeing a slowdown in April.
It will probably continue through the quarter.
Financial services came off a good quarter and is a bit of a challenged category in April.
Real estate has been a challenged category through Q1 as in April and that's likely to continue.
Just on The Globe's side while we'll see some improved print trends in April some of that stuff is attributed to kind of onetime events and some special issues in April.
So we think kind of the core fundamental trends that we saw in the first quarter we see some of that persisting into the second quarter.
I think there's been some printing on the digital side overall.
As we said the trend is similar.
Research Division</strong> And can you jumping over to the circ trends can you provide a bit more color I guess on the impressive circulation results that you've reported? I guess any sense on how much the digital subscription revenue contribute to that line item? The digital subscription was a major part of it.
We did see revenue growth in print.
The price increase has gone very very well living up to our expectations and it will serve as well throughout the year.
Digital subscription growth as indicated in the numbers we've disclosed was good and will continue to be.
The outlook I think is very good for the rest of the year.
But given the price increase that we put in first -- or early part of the year so I think both of them contributed to good growth both print and digital sides.
Yes.
A big part of it now clearly came from digital subscription growth.
Research Division</strong> But it sounds like print would've been positive even without digital? Is that correct? Print was positive yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question on the Lincoln conversion I think you commented that it's going well.
I guess 2 questions.
Any sense on what percentage have converted? And then second question that part would be when -- I guess what sort of timeline do you really put out there for those conversions? Are we -- I mean it's been -- I guess it's only been about 4 months or so but how long do you think people will either decide one way or the other? I guess what are you looking to in terms of sort of the end gamer there? The major -- the large part of the conversion is behind us.
It has gone extremely well.
And if you want to look back to prior to launch of our pay model a year ago and think about the top million most engaged users the MEU program [ph] was like the very top decile and its conversion rate has -- is quite a bit superior to the nearest deciles as we look back on the past year.
We're not going to disclose the conversion rate itself.
We're still seeing conversions and we expect that to continue through the first half of this year.
And as with all of our engaged users we will continue to market to them and we believe we have confidence that we can continue to convert.
Alexia I would just add to that we did begin converting in the fourth quarter.
So we did see a meaningful number not a tremendous number but a meaningful number that converted in the fourth quarter.
So all the conversion has been spread over a longer period than just the first quarter.
We'll take the next question from John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jim you obviously mentioned your improved cash position and it’s been getting better now for a while.
Can you give us your updated thoughts on maybe the timing around potential return of capital and update on the pension? I'll start with the pension.
I did say in my remarks that we continue to focus on that as a priority as well as the -- we have a small maturity debt coming due later in the second half of the year of $75 million.
There's been no change in that statement since the last quarter.
We'll continue to look at and consider accelerating contributions to that plan.
There's nothing meaningfully required to be made this year.
We're ahead of the required contributions by about a year except for some contributions largely driven by some union agreements and that's somewhere in the $30 million to $40 million range.
So at a minimal we're doing about $40 million this year.
And then we'll continue to look selectively at accelerating some of those payments.
Look we're keenly aware of the issue.
We're continually and we will continue to be in discussions with the Board about the -- what the best use of cash is and nothing to report here in the call but we -- the Board continually evaluates the best use of that cash.
And I just don't have anything new to report at this moment.
But we're in a fortunate position with our balance sheet.
I will say that and I said in my remarks as well we do feel pretty confident and comfortable with our ability to exit our full year statement with Fenway Sports Group so that will further enhance that as well.
And look we're continuing to generate good cash in operations.
So we're fortunate to have a very healthy balance sheet at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately can you give us more color maybe on news media digital ad revenue? We haven't seen a negative growth rate in a while.
Has there been a shift in advertising psychology maybe away from premium display to cheaper social media sites? And have you seen any change in the trend in sellout rate at NYTimes.com? No.
We've seen no change in sellout rate at NYTimes.com.
There is no structural shift that we can identify.
We know that -- we're cognizant of the dramatic changes that are taking place on the digital landscape but we don't believe they're affecting our business.
There is a shift in the psychology though for digital spending.
And I think I've been talking about this since the middle of last year.
Since certainly since the middle of last year we began to see signs of it earlier in the year.
We started to see digital advertising to be much more sensitive to the macroeconomic environment.
Print has been for a long time and we talked about how it's been very sensitive to reactive to events in the macro environment whether it's a European sovereign debt crisis or the debt ceiling concerns our fears of double-dip recession.
For -- certainly through 2010 and for much of the history of digital advertising it seem to be somewhat if not a lot insulated from those kinds of concerns.
But beginning in the middle of last year that mindset has changed.
It's sensitive as print is sensitive.
I mean not quite as sensitive but similar to.
That sensitivity was clearly in place in Q1 on the earnings call in January or early February the Q4 call.
I talked about the kind of cautious outlook that we had for Q1.
The outlook we've -- that Jim spoke to and was in his remarks it's a similarly cautious outlook for Q2 with much of the same psychology in place.
Now the deep uncertainty that existed in January has diminished.
But the confidence in the economic environment is still tentative.
It's not a deep confidence.
And hence that caution permeates advertiser spending plans.
One difference in the Q2 outlook from Q1 is the fact that we're up some against in digital very very steep comps in the technology category.
There were quite a number of product launches in Q2 last year.
There will not be similarly large product launches in Q2 this year.
There's the potential and expectation for such launches later in the year.
That's a timing consideration.
But because of the steepness of the comps in Q2 that factors into the cautious outlook that we've shared.
And we'll go next to Craig Huber from Huber Research Partners.
I want to ask you a little further about your CEO search Arthur.
Just given it's been about 4 months now since your CEO so-called retired are you prepared at all to become the CEO on a full-time basis here going forward? If you don't find the right candidate? I have no doubt that we will find the right candidate and I'm looking forward to that.
Okay.
And then also if I could ask About.com can you just explain I guess your strategy here to try and turn this around or will you give us a little more flavor if you will what you're doing with the management there the sales force? Just the efforts you're doing internally that you can control? Yes.
I'm looking at things that we control.
I would say the best are our display advertising and I think there's a number of factors that contribute to what's been pretty challenging performance.
But we do feel like there's more activity in the market that we participate in.
I think it takes time.
We've had a fair amount of turnover both at the senior level and at the people on the ground and the sales staff but we do feel some mental building behind that.
So that's a part of the business obviously we're in most control over except for the economic forces.
And to Scott's point earlier it's not the most robust environment.
But nevertheless the comps do get a little bit easier.
So another thing we can control is page views and I think we've done a pretty good job of turning that around.
And in our last quarter call I said we have gone at the positive page view growth territory.
And we've continued to accelerate that our page views as I said in my remarks were up 6% in the quarter.
We expect this to continue to see growth in page views and that will ultimately translate into better display advertising.
But we're looking for premium display to really carry the day.
On the CPC side there's -- obviously page view growth will also benefit on the CPC side.
So we'll continue to work on that front.
There are certain things we don't control ad rates from CPC ads which is principally served by Google.
It's not something we're in control of and that's really -- it's been negative less negative in the first quarter than we saw in the fourth quarter however.
And then the click-through rate.
Click-through rate is driven by and see if the people have clicked on ads and also quality of ads.
So there are a number of things we can do there to entice more click-throughs and to serve more ads on pages.
And that's in our control and we've got a number of initiatives between now and the end of the year.
So we think we're going to move positively in the right direction on both of those lines.
I think display advertising we should really begin.
I think the second quarter is a meaningful quarter for us.
And as our guidance suggest that we are expecting to see improved advertising trends in about -- in the second quarter.
You mentioned lower click-through ad rates can you just help us just to quantify how much you're seeing down? Do you have rates online? Well look page views are up.
I won't be specific here.
I'll help you out though.
Page views are up 6%.
Ad rates are down.
I think Google disclosed their ad rates were down I believe somewhere around 10% 12% in the quarter.
That would suggest a lot of the -- and I'm not -- we actually performed better than that in the ad rates side but we're not going to be specific about that.
So the rest of it is really click-through rates.
And the click-through rates is both volume of ads on the pages and the number of clicks on those ads when people see it.
These things we can do on that -- on the click-through side that is both in our control and not in our control.
But lastly but what about rates for your online display? How were those trended versus a year ago please? Scott do you want to? I'm sorry is that -- he was asking about About? In NyTimes.com our rates are holding up well.
We continue to command ICPMs [ph] for our premium positions and placements.
Lastly if I can just sneak in one more thing here.
I think you mentioned earlier on the last 6 months your Sunday print circulation volume's up about 2%.
Should we take your comments I mean for the daily part of your New York Times daily circulation volume down say roughly 3% from a year ago over that 6-month period? Is that reasonable? Yes.
Our Q1 print decline was in the vicinity of 5%.
Daily okay.
Yes.
And that's very similar to Q4 so the 6 month is in it.
And again remember that was a reflection at least in part of a price increase placed in the early part of the quarter.
While we're on the subject what is it for daily and Sunday the circulation volume decline I assume in the first quarter for Boston Globe? On the Globe if you can give me just a second.
I'll get to that.
We were down about 5%.
I just want to get the pure print number.
Just give me one second Craig.
Let me see.
Daily is about 9%.
Sunday about negative 3% both of those negative.
Negative 9 and negative 3.
Great.
And we'll move to the next question from Doug Arthur from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Jim you threw out some numbers before down 9% January.
7% February.
2% March.
Was that print only at The Times? Or was that total advertising? Total advertising.
Research Division</strong> At The Times or the whole Media Group? I assume at The Times? Yes the News Media Group.
Research Division</strong> News Media Group.
And Scott it looks like retail improved in the quarter.
Obviously March was stronger than the rest of the quarter.
Was some of that Easter or is that a nonevent? Easter.
There's no discernible impact from the earlier Easter this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So retail looks like it's hit a little bit of an equilibrium? We had a good quarter.
Each month of the quarter was positive.
And moving next to Edward Atorino from Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I got what I guess 3 quickies.
One can you talk about the print circulation volume at The Times post the price increase number one? And there are 2 numbers I would like you to explain.
There's the 472 000 circulation in one place and there's the 454 000 in another.
What's the difference? The difference is the Boston Globe -- the New York Times together.
But...
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
And lastly could you talk about circulation volume post price increase? So it's really the numbers I stated a minute ago about Q1 versus Q4.
The Q1 print decline was 4.8%.
The print decline in Q4 was 4.2%.
There're obviously a lot of things going in there but the key difference was the price increase.
Sunday was down in Q1 0.3%.
Q4 it was down 2%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there any way to say if there's any cannibalization of advertising by the digital product from the print product Times? And you got that blended.
You got print advertising and digital.
Is there any way to tell people are shifting from the print to the digital which could have a negative impact overall since the print? Just think about the larger trends we acknowledge that there's a secular trend and shift of advertising from print to digital.
But the way we sell is on an integrated basis.
And something like 80% it fluctuates from month to month but 70% 80% of our top 100 advertisers are advertising in -- across platforms.
And they -- we help them.
We work with them to design campaigns that exploit the advantages of each platform.
So it's aside from the macro statement it's difficult to answer that question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know it is.
And if I were advertising and I -- let's say I wanted to spend $100 000.
Am I going to get more bang for the buck? Am I going to be able to take advantage of the differential? And basically you would've been better off getting all print? There's no way to figure it out I guess? I think my advertising sales colleagues would ask you what your objectives are and they'd try to design the right spend that maximizes that your expectations on the objective.
And it could be a multi-platform buy that you make.
And we'll move next to William Bird from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I guess first on cost.
I was just wondering if you could discuss Q1 cost? They seem to have come in below guidance.
Why was that? And is it likely that Q2 cost could also come in lower than guidance? Well look it came below the guidance.
Really there wasn't really one thing that drove it weren't huge dollars.
It was down 1%.
We said it would low -- be low single digits certainly below.
Look our best view of our business today is the guidance I gave this morning.
I mean things change.
I don't have a crystal ball.
If it was that precise I would've delivered my first quarter guidance and I didn't.
I mean that is our best view of what's likely to happen.
I mean I'll reiterate the things that are going to drive that.
We are printing local competitor up in Boston.
We're getting the revenue from that but there's meaningful production costs related to that.
Now we have some of that in the first quarter but not the full quarter.
We're continuing to -- we're continuing to market and acquire new customers digital customers and that continues -- that's a bit of a lumpy spend.
It doesn't -- it's not as linear as we -- as maybe we all like but those are the things that are going to drive our business as we look out a little bit into latter part of the year.
We'll be spending more on Olympic coverage.
We'll be spending more on political coverage.
So there's a bunch of things that support our guidance.
That's our best view of what we're likely to see in the second quarter.
It's not precise.
We will continue to do I think our usual job of managing costs less tightly but that's embedded in that guidance.
I would add to what Jim just said the following.
We continue to take cost out of our operations.
And we expect to continue to be able to do that into the future.
At the same time we're investing in our business and we're particularly in the digital side of the business.
And so we've got part of our costs that are going in one direction and another part of our costs that are going in the other direction.
And to Jim's point there is no one big thing but there are lots of things the timing of which sometimes is off.
And if I think that it's one way to think about what's going on with our expenses.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a number for NYTimes.com for the number of paying digital subs as of 3/31/12? The number we disclosed as of March 18 was a week short of the full quarter.
Our quarter ended on March 25.
And we chose to disclose then because we were making a first anniversary announcement that included several component parts one of which was the change in the pay gate.
So we jumped the gun in a sense on our quarterly announcement.
Saw no reason to update it for one week.
Our next announcement will be in the Q2 earnings call.
Research Division</strong> And can you give us any sense of just kind of your early read on tightening the pay wall to 10 articles and how that's impacting sign-ups? I realize it's early days...
It's going extremely well.
We're very very pleased with the response rate since we've made that change.
And we expect that to continue on.
And we're pleased with the page view performance as well.
Yes yes.
And we'll go next to Leo Kulp from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
First can you confirm whether or not your offering expense guidance includes or excludes the accelerated depreciation? Well the accelerated depreciation we've now put behind us and we booked it in the first quarter.
It was about $7 million.
There will be no more accelerated depreciation related to that plant consolidation.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on The New York Times it seems like the ad pages in the New York Times Magazine kind of dropped off pretty dramatically this year.
Is that a function of tough comps? Or is there something else you're seeing there? I think what we're experiencing in our magazine segment of our business is probably what you're seeing across the industry now based on certainly the reports that I've seen about magazine performance in Q1 and beyond.
It's particularly so in our weekly magazine.
The T Style Magazine is doing a bit better.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Schwartz I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
Please give us a call if you have any follow-up questions.
Thanks.
That concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to The New York Times Company's Second Quarter Earnings 2012 Conference Call.
As a note today's conference is being recorded.
And now at this time it is my pleasure to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Paula Schwartz.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
We have several members of our senior management team here to discuss our results with you including Arthur Sulzberger Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Denise Warren Senior Vice President and Chief Advertising Officer of The New York Times Media Group and General Manager NYTimes.com; and Roland Caputo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer The New York Times Media Group.
All of the comparisons on this conference call will be for the second quarter of 2012 to the second quarter of 2011 unless otherwise stated.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2011 10-K.
Our presentation will also include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Arthur Sulzberger.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter results reflect the ongoing progress we have made in repositioning The Times Company for the future led by another quarter of solid circulation revenue growth driven by digital subscriptions.
And while total advertising revenues declined due in part to macroeconomic headwinds we did see sequential improvement in digital ad trends in the quarter particularly at The About Group.
At this time last year we provided you the first full quarter of results for paid digital subs to The Times which then totaled approximately 281 000.
Since then paid digital subscriptions for The Times Media Group have almost doubled and are now over 0.5 million as of the end of the 2012 second quarter.
We were very pleased with the initial numbers and are even more pleased to see that growth continue beyond the first anniversary of our launch.
With the launch of BostonGlobe.com and the digital packages at the International Herald Tribune as well as a long list of products technology and marketing initiatives across all of our properties we have made significant progress over the past year in growing our new consumer revenue stream and positioning our company for an increasingly multi-platform future.
A great deal of exciting work continues as we remain focus on diversifying our revenue streams strengthening our digital businesses and pursuing new ways to extend our brands.
We believe there is more opportunity for further growth in these -- this revenue stream and our subscriber count.
Last month The Times launched a Chinese language website which can be found at the URL cn.nytimes.com.
The site is designed to bring Times journalism to an audience that is educated affluent and increasingly connected to the rest of the world.
We have seen strong interest from advertisers and launched with several luxury brands including Cartier Prada Bloomingdale's and Louis Vuitton.
This is the first step in our new international strategy which in conjunction with the International Herald Tribune will extend the global reach of The Times and expand our international audience.
Even as we make these investments disciplined cost control as Jim will explain in more detail remains a critical part of managing our business as we continue to focus on our high-quality journalism while further reshaping our company.
Our expense management efforts are focused on the careful balancing of investments to support our digital and journalistic initiatives including significant coverage of the Olympics and the Presidential Election while also finding additional cost efficiencies across the organization primarily on the legacy side of our business.
Our strong liquidity position enables us to continue our transformation and our pursuit of a strategy that focuses on the development and the diversification of our digital products and capabilities to meet changing audience and changing advertiser demand.
At the end of the second quarter we named 2 new directors to our board Joichi Ito and Brian McAndrews who each bring significant digital expertise to the table and in particular offer extensive insight on the intersection of technology and content.
Joi and Brian's strengths will further enhance our existing slate of accomplished board members.
Our board has also made meaningful progress in the search for a new CEO and we expect to have more to share with you before the end of this quarter.
We are being very thorough and thoughtful and have met with many qualified candidates.
Our new CEO must have strong business and digital management skills must understand the power of brands and must be able to successfully lead the launch of products that are critical to our future.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Follo.
Thank you Arthur and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter results highlight the significant contributions our digital circulation revenue stream is making to our business early in just the second year of a new subscription model.
In the midst of a challenging advertising market the digital packages drove another quarter of strong revenue growth at The New York Times offsetting the advertising decline and leading to overall revenue growth of the company.
These solid circulation results combined with continued attention to cost management led to our operating profit before depreciation amortization severance and special items to increase 7% for the quarter.
Our success in creating a robust revenue stream based on charging for digital access to our award-winning content is evident in the growth in both digital circulation volume and circulation revenue we recorded in the second quarter.
The total circulation revenues were up 8% for the company and 11% for The Times Media Group driving the fifth straight quarter of total revenue growth at The Times Media Group.
The Times also continues to benefit from improved retention rates for home delivery circulation following the launch of digital subscriptions despite the price increases implemented at the beginning of the year.
To update our digital subscription volume numbers at the end of the quarter The Times Media Group had 509 000 paid digital subscribers up 12% from the March anniversary number continuing solid growth even into The Time's second year of the digital subscription strategy.
This number includes subscribers to The Times and the International Herald Tribune digital packages.
Separately The Boston Globe had about 23 000 paid digital subscribers as of the end of quarter.
The advertising environment remained difficult in the second quarter although the overall digital advertising trend improved sequentially from the first quarter as revenue trends at the About Group showed marked improvement from recent quarters and finished down 9% from the second quarter last year.
Digital advertising was down 4% for the company and 2% from -- for the News Media Group.
Print advertising finished down 8% while overall advertising was down 7%.
Total revenues for the company were up 1% which includes a 9% increase in other revenues due to growth in commercial printing activities at the New England Media Group.
Cost management remained in sharp focus in the quarter.
The company's operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance were flat despite the increases in certain costs we highlighted in recent quarters such as sales and marketing efforts at About commercial printing efforts at the New England Media Group and digital subscription acquisition and related expenses.
On a GAAP basis costs were down 1% and we reported an operating loss of $144 million in the second quarter compared to an operating profit of $31 million in the same period in 2011.
The loss this quarter stems from a $195 million goodwill impairment charge at The About Group which I will explain more later in my comments.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding severance and special items were $0.14 in the second quarter compared with $0.11 in the same period of 2011.
On a GAAP basis we reported a diluted loss of $0.57 in the quarter compared to earnings per share of $0.05 in the second quarter of 2011.
In the second quarter we also sold our remaining 210 units in Fenway Sports Group closing out our original position of 750 units over the course of 2 years.
The stake was sold for the same price per unit as previous transactions worth 3x our original investment resulting in proceeds of $63 million and a pre-tax gain of $38 million.
Now let me provide more depth on our second quarter revenues.
At the News Media Group digital advertising again faced challenges in the quarter and ended down 2% while print advertising decreased 8%.
The group's total advertising which declined 7% year-over-year saw their best month of the quarter in May but then declined in June.
Overall advertising was down 6% in April 1% in May and 13% in June.
Digital advertising results trended lower in the quarter as a result of both difficult comparisons in part due to the technology category at The Times and market factors including the weak economic climate and an increasingly competitive landscape.
The group's weakness in digital advertising was a bit led by declines in national display and real estate classified.
In the second quarter we saw digital gains in retail display as well in the automotive classified category.
Within the News Media Group at The Times Media Group our overall revenues were up 2% in the quarter advertising revenues are down 7% as growth in retail print and digital advertising was more than offset by national and classified print declines.
Aggregate national advertising declined and aggregate advertising was also lower.
The Times digital strategy remains centered on continuing to grow its subscriber base and extend its brand.
In the second quarter the growth in paid digital subscriptions benefited from the adjustment in the free model -- in the free monthly article count to 10 from 20 that we made in conjunction with the model's 1-year anniversary in March as well as from a variety of new product and marketing initiatives such as the anniversary gift subscription program a Memorial Day sales event and the sales of group account for corporate and education subscribers.
We remain committed to building our offerings in the areas of mobile social media and video.
In the second quarter we added to the products currently available to digital subscribers with the announcement of our inclusion in the Flipboard app for which subscribers get full access to The Times content via third-party app for the first time.
Subscribers can now view articles videos slide shows and blog posts inside Flipboard with the level of access aligning with the subscriber's digital package.
Top news articles remain free within Flipboard for nonsubscribers.
This offering is the first in our new New York Times Everywhere distribution strategy which will enable us to further extend The Times' reach to third-party platforms helping us to retain subscribers generate new subscribers and maximize advertising opportunities.
We are also building on a success in the second year of our paid digital subscriptions for the continuous rollout of new features content and functionality for our products such as the recent improvements to the search capability on NYTimes.com that now provides more relevant results auto suggestions and dynamic navigation.
This enhancement will improve our user's ability to discover and consume more content ultimately increasing engagement.
Our print platform has continued to see positive effects from our digital strategy as well.
The New York Times again posted solid circulation results in March ABC reporting period including another 6 month of positive growth in Sunday home delivery print volume which was up nearly 2% year-over-year.
The weekday print home delivery subscription decline also moderated.
Digital volume was factored in for the first time in the ABC period providing a boost to total average circulation for both daily and Sunday.
These gains reinforced the popularity of The Times digital packages and the renewed appeal they have created for the print product as well.
At The New England Media Group advertising revenues declined 5% in the quarter due to weakness in print advertising.
Overall national ad revenue increased digital retail and classified ad revenue showed growth reflecting increases in automotive and recruitment but the combined retail and classified categories were both down resulting from continued print weakness.
On the circulation front in April the Globe instituted a price increase of $0.25 per copy for weekday single copy edition in the Boston Metro area and $0.50 outside that area.
For 7-day home delivery customers the price increase was about 6%.
The Sunday-only rates remained unchanged.
This was the Globe's first circulation price increase since 2009.
Moving onto The About Group.
Total revenues decreased 9% to $25 million in the second quarter with decreases in display and cost-per-click advertising both contributing to the decline.
In the quarter we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $195 million to reduce goodwill of The About Group.
While About is gaining momentum in its turnaround efforts and we expect to build on that progress in the second half of the year we have reduced our long-term display growth and profitability assumptions for the group which led to the impairment charge in the quarter.
This noncash charge will not affect About's ongoing business or financial performance.
Furthermore the application of generally accepted accounting principles with respect to goodwill impairments does not necessarily result in a carrying value that is indicative of fair value.
And we believe this to be the case in this circumstance with The About Group.
Getting into more detail on the quarterly performance for About revenue trends have seen significant improvements from recent results as the site continues to aggressively respond to increased competition in both display and search advertising markets.
Display was down 14% in the quarter while CPC declined only 5%.
CPC advertising saw single-digit declines during each of the months in the quarter its best performance in nearly 2 years with CPC decline between 2% and 3% in both May and June.
These declines resulted from lower yet sequentially improved click-through rates compared with the first quarter.
Although advertising rates for CPC ads returned to modest growth.
We expect that CPC advertising will see the benefit in the third quarter of cycling a Google algorithm change that had a significant negative impact on consumer search traffic beginning in July of last year.
About continued seeing improving traffic trends in the second quarter with page views up 1% year-over-year.
While display advertising trends improved from the first quarter levels display revenues were still lower in the quarter as the competitive landscape and uneven economic environment offset progress in rebuilding About sales team.
About has made strides in its sales plan to better leverage the site's strong reach averaging 85 million monthly unique visitors worldwide in the second quarter and also launched a new trade marketing campaign in June.
The About Group's operating costs were up 7% in the second quarter; and operating costs excluding depreciation amortization and severance increased 15% to $15 million due to increased compensation and content costs as well as higher marketing expenses resulting from the launch of the new ad campaign.
The group saw an operating loss of $187 million in the quarter as a result of the impairment charge.
Our outlook for the second half of the year with respect to About remains unchanged with previous comments as we expect both display and CPC advertising revenue return to positive growth.
On a company-wide basis our commitment to controlling expenses led to operating costs excluding depreciation amortization and severance to remain flat in the quarter as a result of lower professional fees and distribution costs offset by higher compensation to various other costs.
With newsman prices general flat for the past 2 years newsprint expense declined 3% in the quarter mainly due to lower consumption.
While our capital expenditures had only totaled $17 million for the first 2 quarters of the year we expect to ramp up that spending in the back half of the year as we continue to invest in our digital pay initiatives and The About Group relocates to new office space.
We now expect capital expenditures of approximately $50 million for the year.
We still expect cost to increase modestly in the third quarter.
We will continue to vesture our digital capabilities and subscription acquisition efforts and in About sales and marketing initiatives as well as the higher production costs for the new commercial printing activity in New England and we also reset our variable compensation targets earlier this year.
Partially offsetting this will be expense savings in our production and distribution operations reduced support function costs and further leveraging our centralized processes and resources.
In the second quarter our liquidity position has improved further as we recognized the cash proceeds from May's sale of our last remaining units of the Fenway Sports Group and through cash flows from operations bringing our cash position to $570 million and our net debt down to $206 million.
Two priorities for this cash remained managing the underfunded levels of our pension plans and paying off our $75 million 4.61% notes that mature at the beginning of the fourth quarter.
Turning to our outlook.
In the third quarter overall advertising trends are expected to improve from second quarter levels due to better digital advertising performance across the company.
Although at the beginning of the second quarter we cycled the first full year of digital paid packages at The Times we expect to see continued benefit from these initiatives as well as from the price increases; and total circulation revenues are projected to increase in the mid- to high-single digits in the third quarter; and operating expenses are expected to increase in the low-single digits in the third quarter.
And with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
The first one could you give us a little bit of detail on what you saw monthly in terms of newspaper advertising trends? I heard there's still a lot of volatility.
I'm curious how the quarter ended for you.
Well Alexia the -- just to recap.
I touched a little bit on this.
It was an extremely volatile quarter with total advertising in April declining about 6% May was down about 2% and June was down about 12%.
So we continue to see significant volatility.
We are however not seeing kind of that -- we're seeing better performance as we get into the early part of the third quarter relative to June.
But as we've said we're expecting to see total advertising better in the third quarter but we would expect most of that to be driven by better digital performance.
But the volatility month-to-month continues unabated and I think we expect to see that going forward.
Research Division</strong> And when you say better digital performance is that largely from About or also better digital performance on your News Media Group? No we expect it on the News Media Group as well.
I mean the first half of the year if you look at last year the first half of the year in the News Media Group for example were up 15% in both the first and the second quarter.
And the growth moderated significantly in the back half of the year.
We grew somewhere in the 4% to 5% range.
So we'll get the benefit of some better comps and so we'll see.
News Media Group we expect to see better digital.
And as we said About we expect second half meaningful improvements on revenue trends as well.
Research Division</strong> I mean if you could just -- I know your comments have been about use of cash in your outlook there and the notes you're going to payback in the fourth quarter I believe.
But I guess with the positive announcement of the Highway Bill in terms of how that impacts you and your potential pension contribution.
I guess any update on what you're thinking about a dividend or giving cash back to shareholders? Well I would say on the Highway Bill while it gives relief and it gives more time to get fully funded we have been pretty aggressively ahead of the required contributions.
So we actually don't see the Highway Bill meaningfully impacting our strategy to get ahead of that because we do have a desire to get that fully funded as quickly as we can.
Within limits we do wait and hope and expect for a better interest rate environment which has been pleading for sure and doesn't appear to be much of a help in the near term at least.
Look we'll continue to evaluate use of cash.
As we get stronger that issue becomes more prominent we understand.
We speak about it at our board meetings and finance committee meetings every quarter.
I've nothing new to report now.
But everything is on the table and we feel good about the progress we made on the balance sheet.
And we're continuing to evaluate opportunities there.
And next we'll move to John Janedis of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jim in the past I think you've said you're expecting OpEx for the full year to increase modestly.
I'm wondering if that's still the case.
And then maybe moving to the advertising side.
Is it your sense that the underlying demand for print advertising is improving? And is there any kind of impact from the Olympics? On the OpEx side I think the OpEx performance I think it's likely to be under more pressure in the second half than the first half.
And I think that will come from a couple different areas.
We will be spending money on Olympic and election coverage.
That will clearly drive costs in the second half beyond what we saw in the first half.
I would say our spending in the digital arena will continue to increase as we continue to explore new ways to monetize our content whether it'd be video and all other areas.
So I think that will bring some pressure.
I think the About cost structure I think we'll see some -- a little bit of growth.
In part we'll have some kind of onetime double rent in the second half of the year for About as they move to new locations.
We've got to book rent on both locations.
There's a bunch of smaller stuff that adds up.
And so my guidance this morning reflects that and that's our best look at what we think the back half of the year is likely to look like.
On the advertising question John we absolutely have packages out and sponsorship opportunities and we're taking advantage of that.
But I don't expect that it will have a meaningful impact on our overall performance in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe -- somewhat related.
Maybe tangentially can you help us just dig in a bit more on the digital subscriptions? How maybe was the increase from the gate that you saw? And has the mix of digital subs changed over the past couple of quarters? So -- as we've said in the past we typically get the growth from a range of product and marketing initiatives and our growing expertise in the digital subscription marketing arena.
And as we did say the -- this quarter's growth did come from a few key areas the first of which is absolutely the gateway.
But the core business remains very very healthy and retention also remains very high.
In addition we have several marketing initiatives this past quarter including the anniversary promotion and the flash sale that drove the subscriptions.
And finally we did launch new capabilities in the corporate and education marketplaces.
Just looking ahead we really see nothing but opportunity for this business as we have a large pool of both domestic and international prospects currently not subscribing and a range of product and marketing initiatives yet to be launched.
In addition to the ones I've just mentioned we can look forward to growth coming from reducing friction in the billing process our propensity modeling capabilities growth from offers made from daily deal sites and an expanded digital distribution through our NYT Everywhere strategy.
We also believe that there's an opportunity to build a portfolio of niched pay products in several content areas given the passion that our readers have shown for certain content.
So as far as we're concerned and as we've said in the past we're in the very early innings of this plan and we see nothing but opportunity ahead.
And next we'll move to Craig Huber of Huber Research Partners.
Firstly a broad question.
At year end of last year you obviously announced the sale of your regional papers as we've talked about.
Can you just -- your online strategy your flagship paper clearly has been working quite nicely.
But one of the big reasons I recall from our conversations is that one of the reasons you sold the regionals is you did not think the payroll model would work in your smaller papers.
Can you explain for the benefit of all why that is please? I'm sorry I'm not sure I totally followed the question.
It's fine.
At your original papers I believe one of the reasons you sold your small market papers because you did not think that digital payroll strategy would work in your small market.
Just for the benefit of all why do you feel that way? Okay.
It's just different content.
I mean New York Times is in just a unique position...
Well -- this Arthur.
I think the challenges that regional newspapers face and that metro daily face both across the globe and then national/international newspapers like The New York Times face are different that we have faced different challenges and different opportunities which doesn't mean that any one strategy will succeed or fail.
They have to be adaptive.
But we do believe that over time what you're going to see is more and more newspapers moving to a pay system of some sort for their digital journalism.
And we are actually seeing that taking place so it's going to take time.
But I think it's going to expand to the newspapers to the smaller newspapers.
Well look I do think just -- I mean The New York Times we do view kind of in the scale of everything.
We've always viewed it as probably the best position that where we find ourselves and we feel good about that.
And I think that's because people really value The New York Times' content which you just can't get anywhere else.
If you need content then people want to pay for it.
And you didn't think that would be the case in your small market regional papers.
Is that what you're saying? Yes.
And then also housekeeping question.
Maybe I missed this.
But your daily and Sunday circulation volume percent changes year-over-year at your 2 main papers.
What was it please? At The New York Times for Q2 trend was similar slightly worsening versus Q1.
The daily was down about 6% Sunday down less than 2%.
The Sunday home delivery portion was actually up about 0.5%.
And just a reminder this was all in an environment where we raised home's new prices from 3% and 4% in the beginning of the year depending on geography.
And we raised the single copy price by 25%.
On the Globe remember that we put these price increases in place early part of the quarter so these numbers are a little bit distorted on a year-over-year basis.
But the daily number was a negative 9 Sunday negative 6.
I think if you're going back to the first quarter which I think is more indicative and was more consistent with the trend we're seeing we started a daily trend of negative 7 and negative 4 on Sunday.
Those are the numbers we have.
And then lastly your comments on July newspaper ad revenue June was down 12%.
You said I think the whole quarter's down 6.5%.
Are you seeing July as tracking down somewhere to June or closely? No.
I think I said specifically it was in fact I think June appears to be an aberration and we're suggest -- what we're suggesting by our overall guidance for the quarter is kind of the print market on balance appears comparable to what we saw on balance in the entire second quarter.
So we don't see a repeat of June going into July.
That number seems to be we believe somewhat of an aberration.
And we would just kind of look at the overall blended number in print for July.
But as I said we're looking at much more favorable numbers in the early part of the quarter for digital.
And digital yes is performing much better than it had been in the second quarter.
And we'll move next to Doug Arthur of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes 3 questions.
Denise can you just expand a little bit on how you expect to monetize content everywhere? And how big could that become? Second question Jim this is kind of a nitpick the other revenue category of New England was up 28%.
Is that commercial printing? And then the third question is on the $250 million tied to the headquarter building you have an option to I guess repurchase the floors.
Do you -- does that -- if you look at this liability is it actually really now an asset? [indiscernible] Okay.
So the NYT Everywhere strategy has 3 legs of monetization if you will.
The first is by giving subscribers access to this content wherever they would like it we believe that we will add value to their subscription offering and retain them better.
So that's monetization lever number one.
Monetization lever number two is by offering the content.
In these distribution platforms we expose ourselves to a new audience.
So we hope to generate new subscribers from being in these distribution outlets.
And then -- so that's lever number two.
And then lever number three is our ability to sell advertising cross-platform advertising programs across the distribution partners.
I'm not going to comment on how big this is.
This is early innings.
It's something that we're excited about and we do believe has some nice potential for us down the road.
On the -- you're right Doug the commercial printing is what drove the other revenues in New England and we've been talking about the costs associated with that as well.
So that -- we have cost increases but we don't set revenue increases and obviously a profit there.
On the building headquarters just to be clear so we did a sale leaseback.
And essentially what we did was for all intents and purposes was a financing transaction where we have a liability.
We also have the asset in the books.
The asset in the books far exceeds the liability and that's consistent with financing transaction where the building essentially is collateral for the loan -- essentially it's 10-year loan given option to repurchase.
That option has meaningful value to the company given the spread between fair value of the underlying asset and the loan.
So that -- we cannot move on that option before the 10 years but it was almost no scenario where we wouldn't move on that.
And so we -- look the building still has meaningful value and that value is attributed to us and not to the party who sell this package.
And we'll go next to Kannan Venkateshwar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One is with the pension front.
Just wanted to understand what the contribution expectation is for this year and next? And secondly should we assume that the asset monetization process is over? Or can we expect some more there? On the pension contribution front the only requirement we have right now is about $47 million of required contribution that’s largely required via a union contract.
As I had said in some earlier remarks we are ahead of our required contribution to the qualified -- to the main qualified plans.
We will continue to evaluate that and we've got plenty of cash there potentially put to work there.
So we'll continue to evaluate whether we want to get ahead of the required contributions.
But we have not made any commitment to do that at the end of this year.
But again the key is we're not required to make it at the end of this year.
We will do it simply to get ahead of requirement.
But as you look out as you get into 2013 they will become required and they will become meaningful numbers.
We've got a -- going into the year about a $500 million gap and then generally up 7 years on when the gap arises that we're several years beyond when that gap erodes largely in 2009 given the low interest rate environment.
So we've got less than 7 years to get that ready.
So you can imagine the size of the contributions that we're required to get that thing fully funded.
Now that being said that assumes hopefully level interest rate environment and rates have not been stable.
We've actually had negative rate movement this year.
But I hope over the remaining 4 years or so we got to get fully funded with that.
Maybe we will get some help on rates but who knows.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so -- and just to understand this a little bit more I guess the $500 million spread over 7 years roughly about $70 million a year.
And if you're ahead of it I guess it could be higher than that.
Is that a fair expectation? Let me just clarify it.
I said we -- when -- 7 years on when it arises but it arose in '09.
So we're 2 years at least 2 years beyond when it arose.
So we've got less time than that.
So I would say you have more like 4 to 5 years to get fully funded.
I think you had asked another question? Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes on the asset monetizations.
I mean is that process over? Look we -- it's something we just generally don’t public on -- comment on publicly.
We evaluate all our properties on a regular basis.
We don't have -- there's not much more we can say.
And it appears at this time we have no further questions in queue.
So I'll turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
And please give us a call if you have any additional questions.
Bye-bye.
Once again that does conclude today's conference call.
We'd like to thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to The New York Times Company Third Quarter Earnings 2012 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Paula Schwartz.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Melissa.
Good morning and welcome to our Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
We have several members of our senior management team here to discuss our results with you including Arthur Sulzberger Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Scott Heekin-Canedy President and General Manager New York Times; and Denise Warren Senior Vice President and Chief Advertising Officer The New York Times Media Group and General Manager of NYTimes.com.
All of the comparisons on this conference call will be for the third quarter of 2012 through the third quarter of 2011 unless otherwise stated.
As we noted in our release earlier this morning the results for the About Group are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2011 10-K.
Our presentation will also include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com under Investor Relations.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Arthur Sulzberger.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
Our results for the third quarter reflect continued pressure on advertising revenues which have been dampened by the challenging economic environment rapidly changing consumer habits and an increasingly complex and fragmented digital advertising marketplace.
At the same time our results also reflect continued growth in circulation revenues led by the ongoing expansion of our digital subscription plan.
Digital subscription trends have remained robust and at a quarter-end paid digital subscriptions across the company totaled approximately $592 000 up 11% from the end of the second quarter.
Over the past 3 months we have taken a number of decisive actions to better position our company for the future.
First was the selection of our new President and CEO Mark Thompson who will be joining us next month.
We believe that his experience and accomplishments make him the ideal person to take the helm of The Times Company as we focus on growing our businesses through digital and global expansion.
Second just after the quarter closed we completed the sale of the About Group for approximately $300 million in cash plus a working capital adjustment.
This sale will allow us to continue to enhance our focus on our core businesses of generating and distributing high-quality journalism.
And in early October our ownership interest in indeed.com was sold for approximately $167 million.
The after-tax proceeds from these 2 transactions further strengthen our solid liquidity position.
We have remained disciplined in managing our expenses even as we invest in our digital transformation and journalistic initiatives including our extensive coverage of the London Olympic Games the presidential campaign and the unrest in North Africa and the Middle East.
We continue to look for opportunities to broaden and deepen reader interaction expand The Times brand and extend our global footprint.
Over the past quarter we have enhanced our presence in video mobile and social engagement.
In August The Times relaunched its online video player which was developed for optimal viewing across multiple platforms and we have made significant strides in the breadth of our video capabilities including multi-hour live streaming video coverage of the Republican and Democratic conventions as well as the presidential and vice presidential debates.
We have expanded our mobile product offerings building on our NYT Everywhere strategy of offering Times content on a wide variety of platforms to reach subscribers and nonsubscribers where they want to access our journalism.
In June The Times became available on the Flipboard app which was the first time we've expanded our reach to users on a third party platform.
And earlier this month The Times launched an experimental HTML5 app for the iPad.
In addition to our large presence on Facebook and Twitter we've been extending our brand on multiple social networks including Pinterest Tumblr and Google Plus.
With regard to our international expansion we have announced that in the second half of next year we will be launching a Portuguese language site for readers in Brazil which is one of the fastest-growing economies in the world not to mention the site of the next Summer Olympics.
And The New England Media Group bostonglobe.com recently marked its one year anniversary and continues to make progress in growing paid digital subscriptions.
The site has implemented a variety of initiatives to increase the engagement of its readers and increase subscription opportunities including new subscriber targeting capabilities reducing the number of unlocked articles on boston.com and rolling out new features such as monthly e-books.
On Boston.com content enhancements in the areas of business innovation Boston public school sports local college news and an expanded network of community bloggers there is a strong focus on increasing engagement and building community.
As you know I assumed an active part on these calls this year as I stepped into the role of interim CEO.
I'm proud of all that we have accomplished as a company during this time adjusting our portfolio improving our balance sheet driving our digital presence and platforms all while maintaining our high-quality journalism and our brands.
With Mark Thompson joining us it will be time for me to step away from these calls and turn the microphone over to him next quarter.
I've enjoyed the dialogue with all of you and look forward to focusing on my duties as Chairman and Publisher.
Before I close I'd like to say that we are delighted to welcome Mark the former Director General of the BBC as our President and CEO which will begin November 12.
I'm sure that you've read the recent reports of a controversy regarding the BBC's decision last year to cancel a news story investigating allegations of child molestation by one of their on-air BBC talents Mark (sic) [Jimmy] Saville who died last year.
Mark has provided a detailed account of -- as I said Mark Saville I apologize Jimmy Saville who died last year.
Mark has provided a detailed account of that matter and I am satisfied that he played no role in the cancellation of that segment.
In the months leading to our decision to bring Mark to The Times Company Michael Golden our Vice Chairman and I along with the rest of our Board of Directors got to know him very well.
Our opinion was then and it remains that he abides by high ethical standards and is the ideal person to lead our company as we focus on growing our businesses through digital and global expansion.
Mark has already been in our offices this week getting to know many of our employees.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Follo.
Jim? Thank you Arthur and good morning everyone.
Our results for the third quarter reflect the continued strength in the circulation side of our business led by double-digit growth in The Times digital subscriptions.
Halfway through the second year of the subscription model this meaningful revenue stream has helped partially offset continued softness we've been seeing in our Advertising business resulting in total revenues declining about 1% in the third quarter.
Circulation revenues rose 7% for the company and 9% for The Times Media Group in the quarter led by growth in digital subscriptions.
Total revenues also benefited from print circulation price increases at The Times and The Globe in the first half of 2012 which helped to offset decline in print copies sold at The Times and The New England Media Groups.
Times has continued to see growth in Sunday home delivery and improved retention rates of home delivery subscribers who received all digital access for free.
Meanwhile the advertising landscape has been categorized by a challenging economic environment which has been compounded by weakened business confidence associated with the uncertainty around the elections and the pending fiscal Cliff.
It's also been affected by ongoing secular trends and an increasingly complex and fragmented digital advertising marketplace.
Print advertising revenues decreased 11% and digital advertising revenues ended down 2%.
Operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance were up 3%.
On a GAAP basis costs were up 2% and we reported an operating profit of $8.5 million in the third quarter.
Excluding depreciation amortization severance operating profit was $34 million.
Diluted loss per share from continuing operations excluding severance special items in 2011 was $0.01 in each of the third quarters of 2012 and 2011.
Now let me provide you more depth on our third quarter results.
Total advertising revenues decreased 9% year-over-year and were down 4% in July 11% in both August and September.
August and September were particularly difficult months with declines in both print and digital advertising as business confidence weakened.
Third quarter print advertising revenues decreased in the national retail and classified ad categories.
Additional advertising revenues declined 2% with lower ad revenues in the national and real estate classified categories were offset in part by growth in retail display and automotive classified categories.
Turning to The New York Times Media Group.
Total revenues were flat for the quarter with advertising revenues down 10% circulation revenues up 9% and other revenues down 13%.
The group's total advertising revenues were lower due to declines in national classified and retail categories.
Given the high percentage of its advertising revenues that come from national advertisers increased pressure on that ad category weighed on the New York Times Group performance for the quarter.
Digital advertising revenues trended lower in the quarter mainly due to the difficult economic climate and an increasingly competitive landscape.
Standard web-based digital display advertising has been experiencing challenges including a glut of available ad inventory and the resulting downward price pressure as well as a shift toward ad exchanges real-time bidding and all the programmatic buying channels that allow advertisers to buy audiences at scale including through platforms owned or operated by Google and Yahoo! The Times digital strategy remains centered on growing its subscriber base while at the same time extending its brand to subscribers and nonsubscribers on a wide range of platforms.
The steady progress in digital subscriptions in the third quarter was helped by a variety of marketing initiatives.
We update our digital subscription volume numbers.
As of the end of the quarter Times Media Group had approximately 566 000 paid digital subscribers up 57 000 or 11% from the end of the second quarter.
This number includes subscribers to The Times and the International Herald Tribune digital packages.
Looking at mobile.
In the third quarter we experienced very heavy -- very healthy traffic and reader engagement on our mobile apps particularly for our coverage of the Olympics and the presidential campaign.
We also saw good advertising interest in mobile with Ralph Lauren also as the sole sponsor of our iPad app and our Olympic coverage.
Similar to its ad sponsorship of the iPad app for Fashion Week last year Ralph Lauren provided free access to certain sections including sports fashion travel home and garden T Magazine and the Olympics during the 2 weeks of the game.
Moving to The New England Media Group.
Total revenues declined 1% in the third quarter with advertising and circulation revenues down 6% and 1% respectively.
Other revenues rose 19% on higher commercial printing revenues.
Decline in advertising revenues was due to softness in national retail and real estate classified categories.
Automotive and help wanted classifieds were up and each saw increases in both print and digital advertising revenue.
And while total retail advertising revenue was lower due to softness in print digital retail advertising revenues were up for the quarter.
At the end of the quarter bostonglobe.com had approximately 26 000 paid digital subscribers up 3 000 or 13% since the end of the second quarter.
Turning to costs.
While we have remained disciplined in our expense management as expected operating costs rose in the third quarter largely because of higher benefits and performance-based compensation costs stock-based compensation expense and costs associated with increased commercial printing activity at the New England Media Group.
Costs were also up due to expenses associated with our growing digital businesses as well as news-related expenses for our coverage of the Olympics and the presidential campaign.
Meanwhile we have achieved savings in certain areas including outside printing professional fees and raw materials.
With newsprint prices generally flat for the past 2 years newsprint expenses declined 4% in the quarter mainly due to lower consumption.
At the end of the third quarter our cash and short-term investments totaled $614 million and net debt was $163 million.
This does not include the after-tax proceeds from the transactions that occurred early in the fourth quarter.
As Arthur mentioned in late September we completed the sale of The About Group for $300 million in cash plus networking capital adjustments of approximately $16 million.
And in early October our remaining ownership interest in indeed.com was sold for approximately $167 million.
Following the sale of our interest in indeed.com we now have a minority interest in about a dozen new media companies.
In addition to growing our digital businesses organically from time to time we make investments in new media businesses that complement our existing properties and expand our digital holdings.
Our liquidity and overall debt position also improved after the end of the third quarter as we paid off $75 million 4.61% notes that matured on September 26.
As we have said one of our main priorities for cash has been managing our pension-related obligations building on our strategy -- pension obligations and the resulting volatility of our overall financial condition.
Last month we offered certain former employees in the New York Times company's pension plan the option to commence their pension benefits immediately by electing to either take their lumps -- pension as a lump sum or as a monthly annuity.
If an individual elects to receive a lump sum the company's pension obligation to the individual will be settled.
While it's too early to estimate the participation rate assuming an acceptance rate of 50% with the pension obligations associated with the offer the company would make settlement distributions of approximately $100 million majority of which will be made by the end of 2012.
And we would record a noncash settlement charge of approximately $45 million in the fourth quarter 2012.
Settlement distributions will be made with existing access of the pension plan and not with company cash.
The actual amount of the settlement distribution and the charge will largely depend on the number of participants electing the offer and the associated pension benefit of those electing participants as well as interest rates and asset performance.
This offer is expected to have minimal impact on our underfunded pension plan balance and timing amount of our pension funding obligations.
This offer augments the actions we have taken over the past few years to address our pension obligations.
As of December 31 2009 we discontinued future benefit accruals.
We froze existing accrued benefits in the company's company-sponsored qualified pension plans to nonunion employees and eliminated certain retirement benefits for various employees at The Globe with the amendment of certain collective bargaining agreements in 2009.
We plan to build on these accomplishments and to adjust the size of the pension obligations relative to the size of the company.
In addition we have modified our investment strategy to reduce the volatility and the funded status of our plans and are planning to shift some of these assets from equity investments to fixed income investments as the plans become more fully funded.
Over time we expect to have a significant percentage of pension assets invested in fixed income instruments as our plans become fully funded.
We currently expect to make a decision on the amount if any of discretionary contributions to our plan before yearend.
We will consider several factors including current and future expected direction of interest rates in determining the amount of any contribution.
Capital expenditures totaled $5 million in the third quarter and $20 million for the first 9 months of the year.
We expect fourth quarter capital expenditures to approximately $15 million as we continue to invest in our digital initiatives and other IT projects across the company.
Accordingly we are now projecting capital expenditures would total approximately $35 million 2012.
While I know there's been a lot of focus lately on our significant cash balances and uses of this cash as we have stated in the past any decision to reinstate the dividend is considered on an ongoing basis by our Board of Directors takes into account our earnings and capital requirements as well as restrictions in our debt agreements among other relevant factors.
Given that we are in the midst of our 2013 planning season and Mark who will participate in this discussion -- decision does not join us until next month we plan on having more to say on this matter early next year.
Turning to the fourth quarter.
We will have 14 weeks as opposed to 13 weeks since 2012 is a 53-week year.
We plan to provide the revenue impact of the additional week when we release our fourth quarter results.
To recap special charges that we expect to record in the fourth quarter will be an approximately $100 million after-tax gain on the sale of our interest in indeed.com and a settlement charge related to the immediate pension benefit offer.
In addition we expect to record an estimated $68 million after-tax gain on the sale of About Group which will be included in discontinued operations.
Moving to our outlook for revenues and costs.
In the fourth quarter overall advertising revenue trends are expected to be similar to third quarter levels.
Although we have cycled past the full year of digital subscription packages at The Times and The Globe we expect to see continued benefit from our various offerings as well as the print price increases implemented earlier this year with total fourth quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase in the mid to high single-digits.
And operating expenses are expected to increase modestly in the fourth quarter.
And with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
One on your guidance for the fourth quarter with similar newspaper advertising declines does that take into account the extra week in the quarter or not? And then the second question is really on what should we sort of assume for a digital sub growth per quarter? Do you think we can see another 10% to 11% growth in the fourth quarter? I guess what sort of run rate are you looking at? Alexia our statement about fourth quarter advertising largely excluded whatever benefit we might see from having that extra week.
On digital growth rates we don't really forecast and break that out going forward other than to say we expect a good strong circulation revenue growth kind of similar -- in line with kind of what we -- a little bit of what we saw in the third quarter.
So that would suggest good continued growth there.
But we'd rather not be as precise as that.
Research Division</strong> I guess put another way the marketing initiatives behind that impressive growth you saw in the quarter are those expected to continue or was there something sort of specific to Q3 that helped deliver those numbers? Alexia it's Denise.
We get this question a lot about how we're going to continue to increment our subscriber growth.
And so let me try to frame it for you in a strategic way.
I mean we have generated as you know the sizable growth through a range of marketing and product initiatives and that will continue.
As we look forward we're really investing in sort of 3 key areas to make sure that we continue to grow this business.
One is first and foremost the journalism.
That is what our users are paying for.
The second is that we're continuing to invest in user experience and more availability on new platforms which is what was referenced in Arthur's remarks about flipboard for example as being part of our NYT Everywhere strategy making the product available to more people so that we can bring more users into the brand.
And then finally expanding the portfolio.
We believe that there's untapped demand in the corporate education segments as well as in the international marketplace.
And as well we're beginning to explore entry-level product opportunities and higher-end products and suites of benefits.
So as we have said and will continue to say we are still in the very very early innings of this initiative and we believe there's a lot of opportunity to come.
And next we'll go to John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm hoping to dig a little bit deeper into circulation revenue at The Times.
With revenue up about $4.5 million since the first quarter and over that time you've increased single copy and home delivery prices and on top of that I guess you've increased digital subs to more than 100 000.
Now I know there are some timing issues there maybe some seasonality but can you help me think it through meaning why would revenue be a little bit more up sequentially? And do you think you're seeing daily print subs convert to digital only or Sunday only? There's a better seasonality in our year and the revenue can be a function of the marketing programs.
The key drivers accounting for our revenue growth are as we've said the price increase that we put in place for both home delivery and single copy at the beginning of the year.
And then the volume growth we've been driving in digital.
The second question was what? Research Division</strong> I guess are you seeing any kind of maybe shift from daily print subs to maybe digital only or Sunday? Meaning is there any kind of negative mix there that you're seeing? No not an unidentifiable one.
The general dynamics we -- single copy is the most likely source of some of the digital subscriber growth but we have no real way of tracking that because of the nature of those transactions.
The home delivery trends continue to be positive.
And both in terms of start levels and retention levels relative to -- prior to the pay model implementation.
So the dynamics we've described over the past year are still very much in place.
And as Denise said we have an array of programs and sources areas of investment that we think will continue to drive digital growth for quite some time.
We as you said we're still in early innings.
Research Division</strong> Scott any reason why or any thoughts in raising Sunday-only home delivery to try to maybe get a little bit more out of the benefit or value you're giving to the subscriber? We look at our pricing options all the time consider them on an ongoing basis.
And as you know we don't single and advance the changes we're going to make.
But yes we are very aware of what you're identifying.
Research Division</strong> Maybe quickly for Denise.
The digital ad revenues have now I guess been down for maybe 2 or 3 quarters down in low-singles.
The amount of which spoke to some of the challenges.
But with inventory seemingly endless how do you change or reverse that revenue trend? So I think there's a couple of things that you've identified which are greatly impacting our performance there is obviously an abundance of inventory on the marketplace and there's efficient buying methods such as programmatic buying that are really driving the price down.
But they're driving the price down in a particular segment of the inventory.
So I think you really have to peel back the onion in terms of what you're offering.
So for example while overall the trend was as we reported negative and it was challenging there are certain segments of the market that we're seeing robust growth in.
For example our tablet advertising performance is up fairly substantially.
Now this is also a very small base I just want to make that point but it is an opportunity for us as well smartphone advertising is growing.
And the other thing I would point to and I think you all know this about the part of the market that we're trying to serve is brand advertising in a very custom and unique way.
That business those custom high-impact ad units will meet segment that business out from the rest of what I would call just your standard banner display advertising.
That business is also performing very well.
So I think it's really about focusing on those segments of the market and those opportunities.
Research Division</strong> I know it's early but either from a digital perspective any kind of commentary around what advertisers are saying around the holidays? I don't have any insight that goes out that far.
You know how volatile this marketplace is so...
Research Division</strong> Is the buying pattern still week-to-week? I mean I think you should just -- our guidance is that the fourth quarter is going to look like the third quarter.
I think that's our best information and insight at this point.
And next we'll go to Craig Huber from Huber Research Partners.
LLC</strong> I don't think I saw it in your press release.
Can you break apart corporate cost? And how do they trend versus a year ago please? I think they were down.
There's a lot of things that run through that line that make that tend to be very lumpy.
Movement in our stock price drives it the way we account for compensation.
But overall just give me one second.
We actually -- you're right we actually are now reporting one segment.
So we don't have detail just give me one second I'll pull that out.
All right Craig.
let me get back to you on that and I'll have somebody pull that data.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then another nitpick question please.
For newsprint what was the consumption and the price change there please? I think it was down we said overall it was down 4% and it's all consumption because price has been largely flat for the last couple of years.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then can you just quantify if you would this pricing erosion that you're seeing with the digital advertising? What sort of range are those price declines? Well I don't know that we're going to give an exact number but we are seeing pricing pressure as I mentioned on the core banner display business.
And I think this is really something that we're seeing kick in in the third quarter.
As business confidence weakens as more supply comes on the marketplace and as the programmatic buying trends become more and more robust.
But these are -- this is a new trend for us Craig in terms of the impact on our rates.
Craig just to follow-up on your corporate question.
Corporate expense tends be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter so I wouldn't read much into this but our corporate expenses were down about $1 million in the quarter.
Again it's driven by a bunch of stuff that tends to be lumpy and often evens out over the whole year so I wouldn't read too much into that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Then another pricing question if I could they're down almost 11% for print advertising revenues.
How much of that was volume please versus price? It was virtually all volume.
I mean there's always price in there.
You know how complicated this is because price is really a function of the mix in the different segments that we're selling but it was basically all volume.
LLC</strong> My last question please.
Daily and Sunday circulation volume for flagship paper what was that percent change versus a year ago for the print? For the quarter? LLC</strong> Yes.
For the quarter.
For the quarter.
Weekday print is down about 7% and the Sunday is down about just under 2%.
That's a rough trend that's been in place for a while now.
And our next question will come from Doug Arthur from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Jim on the pension is the reason -- the overall -- I think your -- the implication of your commentary was that the overall obligation would not drop if you get 50% acceptance rate.
Is that because you're taking cash out of the pension so it's sort of a net issue? I mean it would seem -- I'm trying to figure out why you're doing this if the overall obligation's not dropping? The reason we're doing it is because our long-term goal is to shrink the size of the plan really on the liability side and of course asset side we want to get this to be a smaller part of our business.
The liability is on our -- all of our pension plans are quite large and somewhere around $1.7 billion.
So as we go through processes of getting the thing fully funded and also shrinking it that -- it just benefits because you don't see the volatility and the overhang on our company.
And quite frankly you've seen that happening.
You're seeing an acceleration of these sorts with Google you saw Verizon do that you've seen GM you've seen Ford do it.
And it's all about shrinking the size of the pension plan.
Because it's just -- it's a very volatile.
It's very driven by interest rates it's not in our control.
And the reason why it doesn't really change as what I said in my remarks it doesn't change the underfunded status.
The underfunded status meaning liabilities minus assets is because you're basically taking both your assets and your liabilities down by that $100 million.
Just a minor impact on the net number.
Some but not enough to worry about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question.
I mean I get the fact that the economy is not perfect and people are highly uncertain and all that.
But the ad number is really shockingly weak in the quarter.
And it's kind of way off-trend of what you've seen in the last 4 to 8 quarters particularly at The Times.
Were there any particular categories I'm thinking particularly the luxury retail category which is pretty important to you guys that kind of went off the reservation here? Yes let me dig into that a little bit for you in terms of the strong and weak categories.
Actually let me start with luxury which was actually strong in the quarter not weak.
So just to put that one out there.
But in terms of the weakness by category we saw many of our large categories were impacted financial was down overall.
And again we just -- you can write off the economy but we are hearing from business leaders that they are extremely concerned.
And the lack of business confidence is growing in many many segments financial being one of them.
Entertainment was down due to a lack of major releases in the quarter.
Department stores had weak retail sales performance so that impacted us.
And then real estate is down mostly due to the lack of new development in the New York market and therefore very very tight inventory situation.
In addition to luxury being strong in the quarter we had nice performance from automotive and we also saw increased spending in transportation from the airlines.
Research Division</strong> So you're saying luxury was actually a positive? Yes luxury was positive in the quarter.
Your next question will come from Kannan Venkateshwar from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have one question on the cost trend.
Essentially the margins this quarter have been really low.
So going forward in terms of the mix what should we assume in terms of margin for the fourth quarter and what drove the biggest portion of this decline this quarter? Well look margin is always a function of our advertising revenues because when you lose $1 advertising revenue you're losing at very high margin we tend to think about as 80% to 90% margin.
So there's always a story of how your advertising is performing.
And look while we're adding good dollars on the circulation side we spend marketing dollars against that.
Now incrementally $1 subscription especially on the digital side is quite profitable.
It is very hard to offset a weak environment like this.
So I tend to not talk in future margin percentage just given how volatile our business is given how high-margin the revenues come in and out of the business.
So -- but the good news is when it comes back it comes back just as fast as it went out.
But that's reason.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of circulation revenue.
I guess now that there is a critical mass of digital subscribers that should start impacting margins positively at some point.
How much of that -- so from a change in margin perspective could you quantify that in terms of what the impact could be? It's hard to say because as I said as you're marketing to gain these dollars while it's coming in at high margin it's not coming in at 90% size.
So when your revenues are down it's largely driven by advertising your margins will be under pressure.
And so if you really wanted to focus on the margin you really have to focus on kind of a long-term view of what we can do in that area.
So that's really so much that I can say to that.
The economics of digital subscription revenue are very similar to the economics of print circulation revenue.
Their -- the marketing upfront costs in a sense get amortized over the life of the subscriber.
So we're in this growth phase and we're seeing that kind of amortization play out? Well just to be clear.
We don't actually calculate and we don't actually differ an amortized...
I was talking about the finance I was talking about the economics.
The offering cost is meaningful against basically your high-margin going forward.
But as always we're in this growth phase.
we're going to continue to spend money to drive that growth.
And next we'll go to Leo Kulp from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
First can you give us some color about how you're thinking about the potential size of any returns of capital? Leo I wish I could.
I just -- look we recognize the issue.
It's top of mind for us all.
But this is something that really -- it's discussed at the Board and until we're prepared to make a statement it's very hard to give that sort of view here.
Just every -- all the inputs get put into it.
And we'll -- as I said we'll -- I think we'll come back in the early part of next year with a more holistic firm view on our capital allocation strategy.
Research Division</strong> All right got it.
And then second can you talk a little bit about how the Chinese language website launch is going? And more broadly and longer-term how do you think about the potential size and revenue impact of the Chinese and Portuguese language sites? So we've seen growth first and foremost from users in the marketplace.
We've actually exceeded the number of users and pages that we had set out to reach when we put the plan together.
So we're very pleased that the marketplace is taking to our initiative.
And we've also exceeded our revenue expectations from advertisers.
There's been nice interest from a range of advertisers mostly in the luxury segment but from other segments as well.
But this is still -- it's a very small initiative.
So I just want to make sure you understand that.
And we're optimistic about the launch next year of the Brazilian marketplace.
We think it has the same opportunities more or less that the China website has seen for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one last one very quickly.
Any update on the union negotiations? Leo I think as you probably know we're in mediation with the guild.
And we're optimistic it will see a good outcome from mediation.
[indiscernible] mediation there's really nothing more we can say right now.
And our final question today will be a follow-up from Craig Huber from Huber Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Your comments about expecting costs in the fourth quarter up modestly is that driven by extra marketing costs around your digital work you've done? Well it's a lot of the same things I've been talking about for a while.
I mean look some things go away.
The Olympics is gone.
So that will help.
But as I said the commercial printing workup in New England which drove 20% growth doesn't come with an insignificant amount of cost.
So that's in there.
We continue to spend money against marketing efforts in our digital products that's in there as well.
There's a little bit of lumpiness in some other areas but those are the primary drivers to cost increases.
A lot of stuff that's down year-over-year but those are the things that largely will result in what should be a relatively small increase in cost structure next quarter.
LLC</strong> Also sorry for this also.
I want to ask on the pension.
Could you just be a little clearer if you would for this year what's the total cash that you plan to put in pension this year? I know it's early for 2013 but what's your preliminary thought for next year too? Well the only thing we're required to put in this year is about $40 million.
So that will be in.
And as I said in my remarks before the end of the year we will be making a determination of how much if any of a discretionary contribution we will put into the plans this year.
Given the cash we have in the balance sheet it could be -- it's something that we're looking carefully at.
We haven't put a number out there yet.
It'll be something that we'll discuss hopefully certainly at the Board level before we do that.
I will say however that is not -- there is no required contribution to the qualified plan this year or likely the next year or 2.
But the underfunded balance we came into the year with which was on the qualified side somewhere around $520 million is probably largely in that range.
So there's reasons to want to attack that issue.
But we've not put any number out there.
And we will address it in the fourth quarter and we will talk about that on our next earnings call.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Schwartz for any additional or closing marks.
Thank you Melissa.
If you have any additional questions please give us a call.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to The New York Times Company Fourth Quarter Earnings 2012 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Paula Schwartz.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings conference call.
On the call today from our senior management team are Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Denise Warren Senior Vice President and Chief Advertising Officer The New York Times Media Group and General Manager of NYTimes.com.
All of the comparisons on this conference call will be for the fourth quarter of 2012 to the fourth quarter of 2011 unless otherwise stated.
As we noted in our release earlier this morning the results for The About Group are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2011 10-K.
Our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com under Investor Relations.
In particular this quarter we will discuss the impact on our revenues of the extra week in our fiscal fourth quarter of 2012.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Paula.
As everyone knows this is my very first earnings call as President and CEO of The New York Times Company.
So hello and welcome.
I took this job not just because I've been a devoted user of The New York Times for many years but because I believe it is one of a handful of global news brands which cannot just survive but can thrive in this digital era.
Since joining the company in November last year I've spent a lot of my time meeting my new colleagues across the company in New York Boston and Paris.
I heard first-hand stories of the first chapter of digital like that brilliant spring 2011 launch of The New York Times pay model a strategy which continues to deliver.
I've also met with some of our major advertisers both here and internationally.
And that helped me gain a better understanding of their priorities and how we can work together to achieve their goals.
And of course I'm looking forward to meeting many of you in the weeks and months ahead.
Before talking a bit about the larger picture let me briefly address our fourth quarter results.
As you know this quarter had the benefit of an extra week compared to the same period in 2011.
Total revenues increased 5% as the continued strong performance in circulation revenues and the effect of our additional week offset weak advertising revenues.
Operating profit was $44 million in the fourth quarter and excluding depreciation amortization severance and special items totaled $125 million down 2% versus the prior year.
Earnings per share from continuing operations excluding severance and special items was $0.32 a share compared to $0.39 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Now I'm currently leading the development of a new strategy for the company.
The strategy will aim not just to optimize our existing operations but to leverage our brands above all The New York Times brand and the great strength of our newsrooms to deliver both revenue and profitability growth.
I'll have much more to say to you about that on our next earnings call in April.
But let me now give you some preliminary impressions of The New York Times Company.
This already a very different business from the classic late 20th century American newspaper model.
In 2012 for the first time in our history The New York Times Company had more revenue from circulation than from advertising.
The success of the digital subscription model with approximately 668 000 paid digital subscribers across the company at the yearend provides us with a meaningful revenue stream to put alongside the resilience and loyalty of our print subscribers.
We expect that advertising will continue to be a critical component of our business and we want The New York Times The Boston Globe and the International Herald Tribune to continue to be amongst the most valued and effective collaborators with advertisers in the U.S.
and abroad.
In particular in recent months we worked intensively to develop strategies that we will believe -- that we believe will enable the company's revenues from digital advertising to not just stabilize but to grow.
Despite a challenging advertising environment in 2012 The Times Company made significant progress in better positioning itself for this evolving media landscape.
It expanded its digital subscription base divested of noncore assets and carefully managed expenses even while invested in digital operations and in an array of journalistic initiatives -- highlights included comprehensive coverage of the presidential campaign the Summer Olympics Hurricane Sandy and the unrest in the Middle East.
Extensive investigative pieces on national and international issues and the stunning multimedia long-form storytelling of Snow Fall.
In my view The Times' news report has never been better.
While we expect 2013 will continue to present both secular and cyclical headwinds as well as increased competition I believe that we are well positioned to meet these challenges and capitalize on the opportunities.
With the sale of the Regional Media and About groups in 2012 we have sharpened the focus on our core brands and will look to better leverage them in new products markets and endeavors.
With this backdrop I would like to share with you some of my initial thoughts on our business and priorities for the coming year.
First from what I've been seeing I believe the company can operate even more efficiently and we've already taken steps to accelerate decision making and to better execute in certain areas of the business.
I've launched an extensive review of all company processes and the overall structure of the business.
While we believe that some cost cutting is both inevitable and necessary as we reshape our business what is more critical is to better position our organization for innovation and growth an important priority for me as we begin this process.
At the same time we will work hard to maintain a sizable and robust newsgathering operation capable of continuing our tradition of excellent journalism one which now more than ever sets us apart.
Together with our senior management team I've also been looking at a variety of opportunities to better leverage The Times brand and its newsroom to create new products and services.
The key areas in which we are focusing including expanding our portfolio of pay digital products growing our international footprint to exploit the strong global resilience of The New York Times brand developing a more strategic video capability building on our mobile initiatives and expanding our conference and event business.
With regard to video you may have seen we've just hired a general manager of video production who will play a key role in realizing our strategic ambitions to grow our video content both documentaries and features across all of our platforms.
While most of our recent efforts have been on digital transformation we're also investing in our print products.
Last month for example we rolled out a redesign of the various features sections of the paper from Science Times to Thursday Styles.
And we're also delighted that our reimagined T Magazine which debuts on February 17 under new editor Deborah Needleman with new features columns and publication schedule.
Turning to liquidity.
Together with the board we've been evaluating our financial position and the outlook for our business to determine an ongoing capital allocation strategy.
In addition to steady cash flows from operations our balance sheet was further strengthened by last year's asset sales and we ended 2012 with $955 million in cash.
Now we acknowledge that there has been a significant and indeed understandable focus on our cash position and capital allocation plans and particularly on the question of returning cash in the form of a dividend.
In addressing this question we have to consider a number of factors.
One continuing uncertainty in some operating revenues notably print advertising combined with broader economic uncertainty.
Two our levels of debt and underfunded pension obligations notwithstanding the steps we have already taken to deleverage and reduce our pension exposure.
And three the fact that we are currently engaged in a strategic review which is not yet complete but which is likely to require investment to grow the revenues and profits of the company.
On this last point in evaluating uses of our cash I do not foresee a significant acquisition in the short or medium term although if the opportunity arises we may consider tuck-in acquisitions of properties that align with our strategy and accelerate our growth in key digital segments.
I do foresee the need to invest in the digital growth of The New York Times' digital products and services at home and abroad.
Our priority is to define and roll out that growth strategy to return to sustainable revenue and profitability growth and to look for opportunities to further deleverage and de-risk our balance sheet.
We certainly do not rule out a restoration of the dividend once we have made progress on these topics.
But we believe that for the present it is in the best interest of the company to maintain a conservative balance sheet.
We do not believe therefore that this is the appropriate time to restore a dividend.
Now as I've said I will have more to share with you regarding our strategy in April and I look forward to discussing our initiatives for growth and increasing shareholder value on our next earnings call.
But for now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Follo.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark referenced [indiscernible] our fiscal calendar both the fourth quarter and the year have an additional week for purposes of our results.
My comments that address revenues will exclude the impact of the extra week.
Costs are a bit more difficult to break down on a week by week basis because some expenses will rise with a longer month while others remain constant.
Our fourth quarter performance reflects the steady build of the circulation side of our business balanced by the ongoing challenges facing the advertising side.
Double-digit growth in Times' digital subscriptions combined with last year's price increases have managed to largely offset the continued softness in our advertising business resulting in total revenues declining about 1% in the fourth quarter excluding the additional week.
Diluted earnings per share excluding severance and special items decreased to $0.32 in the fourth quarter from $0.39 in the prior year period due principally to higher effective tax rate after exclusion of severance and special items in the 2012 quarter.
We have included a table in the press release that provides greater visibility on this topic.
Circulation revenues rose 9% for the company and 11% for The Times Media Group in the quarter excluding the extra week with our digital subscription revenue stream contributing most significantly to that increase.
Circulation revenues also benefited from the price increases at The Times and The Globe in early 2012.
The Times also implemented another home delivery price increase at the beginning of 2013.
And The Times continued -- continues to benefit from improved retention rates for home delivery circulation following the launch of our digital subscriptions despite those price increases.
Further demonstrating the value readers place on digital access which is provided for free to all Times print subscribers we continue to see growth in the Times Sunday home delivery circulation which rose slightly in the most recent ABC reporting period for the 6 months ended September 30 and the third consecutive increase.
Sunday home delivery volume also increased in the fourth quarter by about 1%.
Against the backdrop of positive developments for circulation revenue the advertising landscape is still challenging.
Advertising revenue continues to be affected by ongoing secular trends and an increasingly complex and fragmented digital advertising marketplace.
To that point in the fourth quarter print advertising revenues decreased 10% and digital advertising revenues were down 2% both excluding the additional week.
Rounding out our results for the quarter and including the additional week operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance increased 7%.
On a GAAP basis costs are up 6% driven mainly by the additional week and report an operating profit of $44 million.
Excluding depreciation amortization severance and special items operating profit was $125 million in the fourth quarter.
Now let me provide more depth on our fourth quarter results.
Excluding the additional week total advertising revenues decreased 8% year-over-year and were down 11% in both October and November and 3% in December.
Print and digital advertising both struggled in October November and both saw sequential improvement in December.
Fourth quarter print advertising revenues decreased in the national retail and classified categories with national leading the decline.
Digital advertising revenues decreased as higher revenues in the retail category were offset by declines in real estate and recruitment/classified categories as well as in the national category.
Turning to The Times Media Group total revenues were flat in the quarter excluding the additional week with advertising revenues down 8% circulation revenues up 11% and other revenues roughly flat.
The group's total advertising revenues were lower excluding the extra week mainly due to print declines in all 3 major advertising categories: national classified and retail.
Pressure on the overall national ad category by far the largest category at The Times making up about 75% of total ad revenues was again responsible for the majority of the group's decline.
The classified and retail categories were also down overall.
Digital advertising revenues for The Times Media Group again trended lower in the quarter due to the combination of the difficult economic climate and the increasingly fragmented landscape.
Digital display advertising continued to experience challenges including a glut of available ad inventory in the market and the resulting downward price pressure as well as a shift towards ad exchanges real-time bidding and other programmatic buying channels.
While such audience-targeted approaches have begun to impact premium pricing for advertising environments such as NYTimes.com we believe The Times Media Group can return to digital growth by focusing more heavily on unique custom ad units an area where we already stand out monetizing tablet inventory as our audience on that platform grows and making significant inroads in video advertising as our content offerings there multiply.
The Times' digital strategy remains centered on growing its subscriber base while also extending its brand to subscribers and nonsubscribers on a wide range of platforms.
At the end of the quarter The Times Media Group including subscribers to The Times and the IT digital packages had approximately 640 000 paid digital subscribers up 13% from the end of the third quarter.
The fourth quarter's impressive growth in digital subscriptions was driven largely by a robust new cycle that include the election season and events such as Hurricane Sandy and the Newtown tragedy as well as by a variety of marketing initiatives.
Subscriber acquisition growth is likely to moderate a bit in the first quarter without such a strong new cycle driving traffic.
Looking at mobile and tablets.
In the fourth quarter The Times experienced very healthy traffic and reader engagement on its apps particularly for coverage of the presidential campaign.
The Times continued to see growth in tablets and mobile from an ever diversifying base of advertisers as well as in terms of traffic which in December reached 288 million page views across the website and apps a 55% increase from December 2011.
This is of course across a growing array of mobile and platform -- and tablet platforms.
In December 2012 alone the largest ad revenue month-to-month for these platforms The Times saw advertising clients from categories including studios transportation technology and luxury.
Moving to the New England Media Group total revenues were down 3% in the fourth quarter excluding the extra week with advertising revenues down 8% and circulation revenues roughly flat.
Other revenues rose 8% on higher commercial printing revenues which we'll be [indiscernible] cycle against in the second quarter.
While total digital advertising revenues increased for the group for the third consecutive quarter print's softness drove a decrease in overall advertising revenues particularly in the retail category which declined on an aggregate basis.
While the classified category is down overall automotive classifieds saw a boost in the quarter with increases on both print and digital sides.
The national category was also down overall for the quarter despite the fact that national digital advertising saw the largest gain of any category.
For its digital circulation update as of the end of the quarter BostonGlobe.com had approximately 28 000 paid digital subscribers an 8% increase from the end of the third quarter.
Turning to costs.
While we have remained disciplined in our expense management operating costs rose in the fourth quarter impacted by the additional week but also driven by higher promotion costs and benefit expenses and partially offset by lower compensation costs including stock-based compensation expense and raw material expense.
We'll continue to be diligent in trimming expenses but will also remain prepared to invest where appropriate especially in light of Mark's arrival and any initiatives he prioritizes.
We should have a better sense of those initiatives on the first quarter call.
At the end of the fourth quarter our cash and short-term investments totaled $955 million growing by more than $340 million from the previous quarter and exceeding total debt for the first time in recent memory by approximately $258 million.
The increase in our cash position is largely attributable to the proceeds from the sale of The About Group at the beginning of the fourth quarter which totaled $300 million in cash plus net working capital adjustment of $17 million.
The sale resulted in an after-tax gain of approximately $62 million and About's results are now included in discontinued operations.
Our cash total also reflects the proceeds from the October disposition of Indeed.com a search engine for jobs.
We received $167 million for our interest or about $104 million in net after-tax proceeds.
Our overall debt position also improved at the beginning of the fourth quarter as we paid off our $75 million 4.61% notes at maturity which will result in modestly lower interest expense in 2013.
This benefit was offset in the quarter by a charge related to the termination of our $125 million asset-backed credit facility and a prepayment charge related to the repurchase of a small portion of our 5% notes due in 2015.
Building on what Mark said earlier there has been a lot of focus lately on our significant cash balance and its potential uses.
But given the continuing challenges facing the advertising environment and a desire to remain maximum flexibility we feel that maintaining a conservative balance sheet is appropriate at this time.
As we work to rebalance what is now a smaller company in light of our recent divestitures we will continue to look for opportunities to further delever and de-risk our balance sheet including potentially through the further reduction of our debt ahead of its maturity.
As we have said one of our main priorities for cash is managing our pension-related obligations.
To that end in September we offered certain employees the opportunity to commence their pension benefit now through either a lump sum payment or the start of an immediate monthly annuity.
We made related lump sum settlement payments of approximately $112 million in the fourth quarter and recorded a noncash settlement charge of approximately $49 million.
The settlement distributions were made with existing pension assets not with company cash and the offer also reduced our underfunded qualified plan balances by about $30 million.
The pension benefit offer supplements the actions we have taken over the past few years to address our pension liabilities.
In connection with The New York Times Newspaper Guild contract ratification in November 2012 we froze the existing defined pension plan and replaced it with a plan that significantly reduces funding volatility and accordingly balance sheet risks to the company.
And we will continue to look for ways to reduce the size for our pension obligations.
For accounting purposes on a GAAP basis based upon preliminary results the underfunded status of our qualified pension plans at December 30 2012 was approximately $396 million.
The funded status of our qualified plans was negatively affected by the decline in interest rates but was more than offset by contributions the lump sum offer and solid returns on assets.
In January we made a $57 million contribution to the Guild pension plan.
This is in addition to our $107 million of contributions in the fourth quarter.
With our mandatory contributions nearly met for the next several years and our underfunded gap slowly diminishing we are likely to take a pause in making additional discretionary contributions this year as we watch interest rate changes.
But we will continue to evaluate.
Moving to our outlook.
In the fourth quarter overall advertising trends are expected to be similar to the -- in the first quarter -- or are expected to be similar to the fourth quarter levels on a 13-week basis.
First quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase in the mid-single digits as we expect to see continued to benefit from our digital subscription initiatives as well as from the most recent Times price increases.
And in the first quarter we expect operating costs excluding severance to decrease in the low single digits from the same period last year.
And with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Welcome Mark.
We're happy to have you.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First on the comments that I think you made about the secular challenges to the advertising growth still.
Is that -- is -- any way to sort of gauge about how far along we are in terms of that share shift? How much of the sort of the ad pressure now is secular versus sort of cyclical? And then my second question is really on the digital sub-growth which in the quarter was obviously very impressive.
And I know you mentioned that it's going to not be quite as strong in the first quarter but do you guys have an internal goal maybe you can share with us? Or where do you think that can ultimately go? It's Denise.
I'll take both questions.
Let me start first with the advertising one.
I think you know it's kind of difficult for us to determine what the real mix is between both the secular and cyclical impacts.
I think it's fair to say that the last couple of months have had a lot of cyclical uncertainty given the uneven economic recovery and the fiscal cliff.
And that has absolutely impacted our results both on print and on digital.
But it is -- it's difficult for us to pin it down and sort of give you a sort of mathematical answer to that if you will if that's what you're looking for.
In terms of our digital subscriptions we were very pleased with the performance not only in the quarter but obviously in the year.
I mean just to give you a benchmark in the first year -- so on our first year anniversary we had 454 000 digital subscribers.
And in the remaining 3 quarters of 2012 we had added an additional 186 000 which put us on track somewhere in the vicinity of 50% growth for our second year.
And as we have said repeatedly in prior calls that there are several segments of the business that we think still have an opportunity for growth including the corporate education and international markets.
So we definitely believe that we will have solid incremental growth into 2013 and beyond.
We definitely saw in this past quarter an increase in the performance due to the new cycle as we've noted in the remarks.
In addition if you're looking at the first quarter Alexia I'll just remind you that we are comping against the most engaged user program the anniversary of that which many of the subscribers that came on board did do so in the first quarter of last year.
With that said we are very very optimistic about this initiative and there's a lot of room for growth.
We are working on a growth strategy that is looking at several elements including premium products evaluating our pricing structure and several other things as we've noted in the past including the opportunities in the international market.
Alexia it's Mark here.
Thanks for your welcome.
If I can just add.
I mean from my point of view coming into the company this is a revenue stream which scarcely existed a couple of years ago which has shown strong growth so far.
It's now the key focus of the strategy where we're doing at the moment of how we can develop and expand this new revenue stream.
We'll go next to Doug Arthur with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Yes two quick questions.
Denise can you just take your comments up north to the Boston Globe and talk a little -- I mean those numbers seem reasonable but still quite small.
So what's the game plan up there on the digital sub-side? And then Jim just to nitpick.
The severance charge in the quarter is that mostly in SG&amp;A or in other costs? I don't have the exact breakdown.
It's spread throughout.
We got some newsroom buyouts that existed and there's some in G&amp;A.
And I'm sorry I just don't have the complete breakdown there.
Okay.
And Jim are you going to...
Yes I'll -- yes.
answer The Globe...
Yes The Globe has seen some -- it's kind of a steady growth.
We don't see that trajectory changing dramatically  [indiscernible] but it has been steady growth.
It's clearly not as impactful to that business as NYTimes is.
We don't really see the dynamics of that changing.
We see it as an incremental business.
We're trying lots of new things to drive that growth and we -- it'll continue to grow nicely but I don't think -- we're not calling for a significant ramp in growth rate there.
We'll go next to Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
I just have a few housekeeping questions.
The first one please.
Can you update us on the daily and Sunday circulation volume percent change year-over-year for your flagship paper and The Boston Globe? I believe last quarter it was down 7% and 2% for your flagship for example.
Yes so the total units -- let me give -- I'll give you daily and Sunday I guess.
So our total units for NYTimes.com in the fourth quarter is about -- down about 5.7% revenues.
That was for circulation.
Circulation.
I'm sorry [indiscernible].
[Indiscernible] for circulation.
It's not NYTimes.com's it's New York Times.
Yes sorry New York Times.
Negative 5.7%.
We've actually had some growth in revenues given the price increase.
And most of that a good  part of that was single copy which was down meaningfully more.
On the Sunday side our units total were up a little bit short of 1%.
On The Globe total units daily down about 10%.
And on Sunday down about 6% in the quarter.
And then also your corporate expense which is what -- how much was it roughly to [indiscernible] cash costs? Is that roughly $10 million in the quarter? Somewhere in that.
It's about -- right it's about a $40 million run rate for the year.
That's about right.
Okay.
And then also another nitpick question for newsprint.
What was the percent change in consumption there please adjusting for the extra week? I believe it was about 3% down.
As you know prices are -- our prices were steady in the quarter.
I will say prices have begun to decline but that decline has happened and will impact us next year.
But the prices were stable in the quarter with volume down on it about 3%.
And then also on the advertising pricing side for your print newspapers I guess it's down about 10% for the revenues.
How much of that was price please? Was it about half of it? No price is generally flat.
But as you know and as we've discussed many times that's largely a function of the mix.
So it depends on the category.
But overall it looks flat.
We'll go next to Kannan Venkateshwar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to drill down on the liquidity question a little bit more.
So thanks for the clarity on the -- on what do you want to do going forward.
But just looking at your balance sheet there's about $900 million of cash.
And debt is obviously less than that.
So the first question is do you plan to be debt free at some point? I mean is that part of the plan? And then secondly on the  [indiscernible] front is it merely a question of when rather than if that's a possibility at all? Jim do you want to -- I spoke at some length in my remarks [indiscernible].
Yes.
Look we haven't -- we've been asked many times about what we think the right debt level is.
As of right now it's -- our view is right now given the volatility in the market and the things that Mark -- particularly advertising -- things that Mark talked about we think now is a good time to just keep our balance sheet conservative.
And as we get better visibility in some of these other areas our views will change.
I -- we're not here to say we think the business ought to be debt free over a period of time.
We're just suggesting that as of right now we think that would be an appropriate place to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there a liquidity number that you have? And also sorry on the dividend question is it merely a question of timing? Well you heard me -- Kannan you heard me say that there's a number of factors that we're going to look at.
We're doing a strategic review.
I've said that.
And I'll say much more about that on the next earnings call.
We will start implementing that.
So that factor is definitely one of timing.
We're also looking at what I'll describe as continuing uncertainty in some operating revenues  [indiscernible] print advertising.
We'll be looking at that over time.
And I thirdly talked about potential further opportunities to further deleverage our debt and reduce our pension exposure.
This is something we're going to look at.
It is definitely -- these are all factors we'll look at going forward.
But for at least some of them for example uncertainty in the operating revenues it is hard to give a precise timetable.
So yes it's about timing but that doesn't mean you can reduce it to a precise timetable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Right okay.
And secondly from the cost perspective I mean you've obviously done a good jobs over the last few quarters in bringing down costs consistently and you're also guiding at -- to  further reductions going forward.
So what exactly -- I mean could you just detail that a little bit in terms of where that's coming from and what the main sources are? Jim do you want to get that? The guidance we gave is in the first quarter I think is just broad based.
You've heard there's been some very public discussion about some of the headcount reductions we've already implemented that will obviously benefit us.
We had a number of issues that pressured costs negatively that we've cycled past.
We talked about some of the spending we did against the election and the Olympics.
That's behind us.
We're going to begin to cycle through some of the commercial work-up in New England.
That will be behind us.
So once those are behind us there's nothing that really sticks out as a significant headwind.
So I think the core business we'll continue to see good performance on.
But I'll go back to some of the comments we made earlier.
I think we'll be in a better position on the first quarter as we firm up some of these strategic initiatives to give more detailed guidance as to what costs look like going forward.
But we'll be prepared where we see fit to be able to invest and grow the business and that will be have to be part of the question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question which is on the international business.
I mean you made a comment saying you're looking at expanding The New York Times brand internationally.
Could you just detail that out in terms of what that involves I mean -- and which parts of the world you're looking at? We are in the middle of looking at the international strategy.
I certainly expect to have more to say in April about international -- in the international strategy.
Clearly a part of that work is looking at the world and deciding which markets offer us the best opportunities.
But what's interesting is the very extensive use of NYTimes.com outside the U.S.
the fact that essentially with minimal marketing activity the fact that the company has begun to attract subscribers from outside the U.S.
So we think that the potential to tap into larger reservoirs of potential users and subscribers is there.
We're doing the work trying to figure out region by region and country by country where the best opportunities are.
We'll go next to John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Denise when we think back to the launch of the paywall you had talked about heavy users as the people you were targeting.
Now when you look back where have the paywall subs come from? Was it those heavy users or a different bucket of uniques? And embedded in the mid-singles guidance does that assume print subs are down in line with trend? Okay.
The mid-sub guidance was all about digital subscribers.
So...
I think...
Research Division</strong> [Indiscernible].
You you're referring to the guidance we gave on circulation revenue of mid-single-digit growth.
Is that what you're talking about? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes Jim.
Yes.
We're going to see kind of similar print -- were going to see kind of flattish to a little bit up on revenues.
The New York Times as we've said raised prices early in the quarter.
So we'll see some of that benefit.
We'll see -- my guess is we'll see some similar unit trends and so generally contribution on the print side in line and a little bit of a moderating on the growth on the digital subs for all reasons that Denise spoke about earlier.
And to answer question about where -- who are the subscribers and where are they coming from I mean obviously a vast majority of them in the initial days and still continuing come from heavy users of our products and services.
That is still a very robust channel for us.
We still convert a lot of people at the gateway.
We convert a lot of people through using our own marketing channels on NYTimes.com.
But as I think we've discussed we've got a fairly sophisticated marketing operation and a fairly sophisticated product operation that are trying to leverage all other channels.
And we're doing so successfully.
As I think we've noted in the past we've done a lot of really interesting marketing programs -- our one-day sales have really generated a lot of activity.
So it is I think beyond just the heavy users that we're attracting although -- and I haven't looked at this number but they're still obviously the larger majority of our paying subscribers.
Research Division</strong> So maybe a couple of years in how does digital retention look relative to print retention? It's very very good actually both on one year.
And we only have 21 months at this point but both of those metrics look very very healthy versus print.
And as you know we actually have a pretty good print retention number.
We don't disclose those numbers but they do look extremely good versus the print retention.
We'll go next to Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> I got a couple of questions.
At some point do you get worried about the higher circulation price affecting volume somewhere as people either cancel or downgrade? Or is the math such that you could still come out ahead by doing that? Secondly any plans to raise the price of NYT.com either in the U.S.
or put a premium on it elsewhere? Look on the print side we have a history of managing price increases quite well and I think that comes out very well in our print revenue number being quite stable and a slight growth this year on The New York Times.
So these are relatively -- we think relatively modest price increases.
They're in the 5% range.
And I think we've got a lot of history of doing it and doing it well.
And so we think there's still power.
We watch it carefully.
Obviously there's always a tipping point to every issue but we think there's still -- we still think we're in a good place right now.
Yes I mean our subscribers are pretty inelastic to our prices I think you know.
As far as the digital price is concerned it's one of the things we're evaluating alongside many other strategic initiatives in the coming year.
As I alluded to earlier we're going to look at all of our offerings.
Is there the potential for a premium product? Is there the potential for an entry-level product? Do we actually have the right bundle and pricing structures given the convergence of mobile and other platforms? So it is absolutely something that we will continue to evaluate but we've made no decisions at this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Has there been much difference between let's say New York circulation and non-New York circulation as prices have gone up? Generally not.
Generally not no.
If I can just add Edward.
I mean the fundamental it seems to me building block of future strategy that we have -- historically had print subscribers and now have digital subscribers who value greatly value the products they get from The New York Times and stick with them with a good willingness to pay and with loyalty over long periods of time.
That's been proven over decades in the case of print.
What's very striking about the last 21 months is demonstrating it's also true of digital.
And that's one of building blocks on which we can build our strategy.
At this time I'll turn the conference back over to Paula Schwartz for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining our call.
If you have any additional questions please call us.
Thanks.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to The New York Times Company First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Paula Schwartz.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On the call today are Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Denise Warren Executive Vice President Digital Products and Services.
All of the comparisons on this conference call will be for the first quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2012 unless otherwise stated.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2012 10-K.
Our presentation will also include non-GAAP financial measures and we've provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com under Investor Relations.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Paula and good morning everyone.
Since I last spoke to you I've completed my first full quarter at the New York Times.
We've also taken a number of significant decisions.
We've developed a new strategy for growth at the company.
We've reorganized the company to deliver that strategy and optimize the delivery of our existing businesses.
We've announced the rebranding of the International Herald Tribune as the International New York Times this fall as part of our plan to find new audiences and new revenues outside the U.S.
And we've begun marketing for sale the New England Media Group.
Now in a few minutes I will set out some of the detail of our new strategy.
I'll also provide guidance on how we expect the new growth initiatives to affect our business.
But before that let me talk briefly about our first quarter results.
Total revenues decreased 2% as ongoing weakness in advertising revenues was largely but not entirely offset by continued growth in circulation revenues.
Operating profit was $23 million and excluding depreciation amortization and severance totaled $50 million up 3% largely due to the strength in our consumer revenue stream coupled with tightly managed costs.
Earnings per share from continuing operations excluding severance and special items were $0.04 a share compared with $0.05 in the 2012 first quarter.
Paid digital subscriptions totaled more than 700 000 by the end of the quarter an increase of more than 45% compared to the same quarter in 2012.
The rate of increase was less than in the last quarter of 2012 though that is at least in part attributable to the volume used including the presidential election in that quarter.
Advertising in the first quarter 2013 remained challenging though as you will note in our guidance we're currently seeing some signs of improvement in the second quarter.
I spend most of my time since I arrived as CEO of this company working with my colleagues to develop a medium-term strategy for the New York Times.
I've looked both at our existing talent base and current operations and structure and at many potential sources of future growth.
We've also listened carefully to consumers and they're thousands.
What you will hear today is not my last word on the subject of strategy but what I would describe as a significant first step in our efforts to put The New York Times Company on the path to sustainable growth.
We plan to grow our business by launching new products and services based on the unique strengths of Times journalism and by investing in the rapid expansion of existing operations video and live events are examples where we're already seeing strong growth.
We want to deepen our relationship with our existing loyal customers but we also want to use a wider family of New York Times products to reach new domestic and international customers.
New products under development as part of the strategy include a lower-priced paid product designed to allow access to the Times' most important and interesting stories and a convenient media-rich package for consumers looking for an efficient way to stay informed.
Consumer research has suggested very strong demand for such a product.
Other new products also at lower price points that would offer deep access and additional content and other new features in specific content areas such as politics technology opinion the arts and food.
And enhance it it would offer extras at a higher price point to all digital access and print subscribers.
Subscribers will likely be offered access to Times' events the ability to give subscriptions and provide full family access among other incentives.
Growing international subscribers is a second key component of our strategy.
By the sheer quality and breadth of its journalism The New York Times has become one of the best known news organizations in the world.
We believe that under a unified brand there's a real opportunity to drive new international revenues particularly through the acquisition of new digital subscribers.
So this fall the International Herald Tribune will become The International New York Times.
We intend to invest in global marketing to build out our international subscription base using the marketing practices that have helped us build our strong domestic subscription base.
We also plan to localize the purchase process prices and payment methods to make it easier for international readers to subscribe.
We expect to attract high-volume users especially those we term "global citizens " news consumers who have interest or ties outside their home country and who seek an alternative or an addition to local media.
The development of a more robust and comprehensive video presence is another strategic initiative which is still in the early stages of development.
We recently appointed a new general manager of video production to lead the efforts to scale our video business to satisfy the demands both of users and advertisers.
Over the past few years we've been building an infrastructure and core competencies in the video space.
And in 2012 we saw significant gains in both the streaming and monetizing of the business.
We've already produced a lot of exciting work including the Op-Docs series which features short topical documentaries and a multi-award winning feature Snow Fall which chronicle the story of a group of expert skiers caught in a deadly avalanche enriched with embedded and topographic video.
We plan to continue developing video series to build on the strengths of our journalists and our popular sections like arts and culture style and food.
And we'll continue of course to invest in video coverage of breaking news events.
Just this week we began to offer free unlimited access to The Times' online video section.
We want to significantly increase our video presence and we'll do this by growing our offerings and broadening our distribution channels.
The fourth component of the plan for growth is through brand extensions.
We believe that The Times can leverage our key assets of brand strength marketing prowess and audience quality to generate incremental revenues by selling goods and services that match current reader and customer needs.
The planned areas of focus are gains and e-commerce.
Last year we began to expand our successful crosswords franchise and we've added a sizable number of paying subscribers to our Web and mobile crossword products through minor products enhancements and increased marketing.
Based on this experience and market indicators which point to healthy growth of casual gaming users especially mobile we believe there is an opportunity to expand our footprint in this market.
While the landscape is fairly competitive our research points to opportunities particularly in the intelligent game segment and our users products and e-commerce system and marketing capabilities provide a solid and unique starting point for expansion in this area.
We've also been successful in generating revenue by selling branded products and services and industry trends lead us to believe that we can diversify both our product portfolio and services business and further growth -- grow our overall commercial revenue.
An expansion of our conference business bringing the New York Times and IHT conference operations together for the first time is also planned.
We've reorganized the company to deliver both these and subsequent strategic projects and to ensure that we're managing our legacy operations as effectively as possible.
The new structure is intended to accelerate the delivery of our growth agenda to provide more efficient decision-making to unlock innovation and to provide a special focus on excellence in plotting the future of our Digital and Print Advertising business and our Print Manufacturing and Distribution operations.
We organize The Times' operations into 3 groups each headed by a leader charged with addressing the groups' particular market dynamics and strategic challenges.
These groups are: The Digital Products and Services group led by Denise Warren; the Print Products and Services group headed by Roland Caputo; and The Advertising group which we're seeking the right executive leadership.
We'll consider both internal and external talent for this position.
In addition to the focus on growth all of these groups and the corporate leadership of the company will also be charged with continuing to manage expenses aggressively over the coming years.
Despite the considerable achievements on this front in recent years we believe there is further opportunity for cost reductions without damaging the quality of the journalism on which the company's future success depends.
Turning to the impact of the strategy on our business we expect it will generate strong revenue growth and improved operating profit over the long-term.
We estimate operating profit will be negatively affected by $20 million to $25 million in 2013 as a result of these initiatives with a modest contribution to revenues while we make significant investments to build out and ramp up.
Investments will largely be for product development and subscriber acquisitions along with significant new capabilities in product management customer management and distribution.
We expect these growth initiatives will be largely based on organic investment although we will not rule out tuck-in acquisitions of properties that align with our strategy and accelerate growth in key digital segments.
I mentioned the quality of The Times' journalism a moment ago.
Last week The Times was awarded 4 Pulitzer prizes for its international investigative and explanatory reporting and for feature writing more than any other news organization for 2012.
In that same week we saw brilliant coverage by this company's journalists at The Globe The Times and the IHT of the tragic events in Boston.
In a world where so many other news providers are struggling to maintain quality and accuracy we believe that the gold standard of reporting that the New York Times and existing titles stand for is becoming a critical point of distinction and a competitive advantage.
It is the rock on which we plan to build a successful future for the company.
And with that let me turn the call over to Jim Follo.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Our company maintained positive momentum in its Circulation business in the first quarter but that incremental growth was offset by the challenges faced in the advertising side.
The steady build of The Times digital subscriptions combined with January's print price increases managed to partially offset the advertising losses resulting in total revenues declining 2% in the quarter.
That said revenue challenges were more than offset by cost management in the quarter bringing operating profits before depreciation amortization and severance to $50 million a 3% increase compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Circulation revenues rose 7% for the company and 8% for The Times Media Group in the first quarter with the monetization of our digital products contributing most significantly to that increase.
Circulation revenues also benefited from home delivery price increases at The Times early this year.
The Times continues to benefit from improved retention rates for home delivery circulation following the launch of digital subscriptions despite these price increases.
Further demonstrating the value and place -- the value readers place on digital access which is provided free for all Times print subscribers we continue to see growth in The Times Sunday home delivery circulation volume which ticked up slightly in the first quarter.
Against the backdrop of continued growth in Circulation revenue the difficult advertising landscape did not show signs of abating in the quarter.
Advertising revenue continues to be affected by ongoing secular trends and an increasingly complex digital marketplace that is undergoing a shift towards ad exchanges real-time bidding and other programmatic buying channels.
To that point in the first quarter print advertising revenues decreased 13% and digital advertising revenues were down 4%.
Running out of results for the quarter operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance decreased about 3% and on a GAAP basis were down 4% both in line with our guidance.
We report an operating profit of $23 million.
GAAP costs in the quarter benefited from the absence of accelerated depreciation expense that we booked in the prior-year period.
Diluted earnings per share excluding severance and special items were $0.04 in the first quarter compared to $0.05 in the first quarter of 2012.
Now let me provide some depth on our first quarter results.
Total advertising revenues decreased 11% year-over-year and were down 10% in January 6% in February and 17% in March.
Both print and digital advertising experienced particular difficulty in March.
First quarter print advertising revenues decreased in national retail and classified categories.
Digital advertising revenues also decreased as growth in automotive classified category was offset by declines in national retail and the remaining classified categories.
Overall mobile advertising was challenged in the quarter due to the timing of some campaigns but has turned around significantly since then and we expect robust growth for the second quarter.
Turning to the Times Media Group total revenues were down 1% in the quarter with revenues -- with circulation revenues up 8% and advertising revenues down 11%.
The other revenue line was up 5% partially due to better performance in Digital Archive business.
The overall advertising revenue decline was the result of print losses in all 3 major categories: National Retail and Classified.
Pressure on the national ad category by far the largest at The Times was again responsible for the bulk of the group's decline.
While the retail category saw modest growth on the digital side both Retail and Classified categories were down on an aggregate basis.
Digital advertising revenues for Times Media Group trended lower due to the increasingly fragmented landscape.
Digital display advertising continued to experience challenges including from the programmatic buying issues I mentioned earlier along with the glut of available ad inventory in the market causing downward price pressure.
While such audience-targeted approaches are affecting premium pricing for advertising environments such as NYTimes.com we believe that the Times Media Group as Mark outlined today can return to digital advertising growth by making significant inroads in video advertising to substantially increasing our inventory by focusing more heavily on unique custom ad units and by better monetizing our tablet inventory.
Even as pay product strategy continues to evolve The Times digital strategy remains centered on growing its subscriber base while extending its brand on a wide range of platforms.
As of the end of the quarter the Times Media Group including subscribers to The Times and the IHT digital packages had about 676 000 paid digital subscribers an increase of 36 000 subscribers from the end of the fourth quarter and more than 45% growth year-over-year.
Digital subscription acquisition growth was somewhat tempered in the first quarter which marked the end of the second year of our pay products as we do not benefit from the same traffic level associated with the robust new cycle of the fourth quarter.
That said our success to date with digital subscriptions has validated and expanded the market for paid digital products and our new initiatives will ensure that we remain an industry leader on this front.
Moving to The New England Media Group total revenues were down 7% in the first quarter where circulation revenues down 2% and advertising revenues down 10%.
Other revenues were down 9% primarily as a result of lower revenues from direct mail advertising services.
In addition in the second quarter The Globe will begin to cycle higher commercial printing and distribution revenues and the associated costs in connection with printing and delivering a local competitor that began last year.
Print softness drove the decrease in overall advertising revenues in the first quarter particularly in the Retail category which also declined on an aggregate basis.
While the Classified category is down overall Automotive Classifieds saw a digital boost in the quarter driving aggregate digital classifieds into positive territory.
The National category saw the smallest decline for the quarter.
As of the end of the quarter BostonGlobe.com had 32 000 paid digital subscribers an increase of 4 000 subscribers for the end of the fourth quarter and more than 50% growth year-over-year.
The Globe has also announced that it will raise price -- raise its print home delivery prices beginning next month.
As we announced in February we've begun the process to sell The New England Media Group.
At this point while we can give no assurances we expect to see a transaction sometime in the second half of the year.
We are pleased with the interest we have expressed -- that has been expressed to date.
Turning to costs.
We again delivered on expense management side in the first quarter as cash operating cost excluding severance declined 3% mainly due to lower compensation costs raw material expense and outside printing costs.
GAAP operating costs declined 4% as we began to cycle against $7 million in accelerated depreciation in the quarter associated with the Worcester consolidation last year.
We will continue to be diligent in trimming expenses and managing legacy cost going forward but we will remain prepared to invest where appropriate especially in light of the strategic initiatives Mark outlined this morning.
Raw material costs declined 10% in the first quarter mainly due to lower newsprint consumption and declining newsprint prices.
Looking broadly at the financial impact of the new initiatives while our strategy is designed to ultimately have a positive impact on operating profit the effects will not be immediately evident.
In fact we expect the contribution to operating profit connected to these initiatives will not move into positive territory until late 2014.
It will not have a -- it will not see full-year growth until 2015.
That said we expect some of the initiatives will begin to generate new revenues this year.
Moving to the balance sheet.
At the end of the first quarter our cash and marketable securities totaled $866 million exceeding total debt by approximately $168 million.
Just to reiterate what we said last quarter while there's been a lot of focus in recent months on our significant cash balances and its potential uses given the continuing challenges facing the advertising environment and our desire to retain maximum flexibility we feel that maintaining a conservative balance sheet remains appropriate.
In turn we do not believe it is the best interest of the company to restore dividend at this time.
As we have said one of our main priorities for cash is managing our pension-related obligations.
To that end in the first quarter we made about $61 million in largely discretionary contributions to certain qualified pension plans with our mandatory contributions nearly met for the next several years and our underfunded GAAP solely diminishing we are likely to take a pause in making any additional discretionary contributions this year as we monitor interest rates.
Moving to our outlook.
Second quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase in the mid-single-digits as we expect to see continued benefit from our digital subscription initiatives as well as for the most recent Times price increases and the planned increases at The Globe.
In the second quarter overall advertising revenue trends are expected to be somewhat better than the first quarter levels.
And second quarter operating costs are expected to decrease in the low single-digits from the same period last year.
And with that we'd be happy to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering Jim does the start of this flow-in during the third quarter and based on your comments is it fair to say there'll be some form of loss maybe for the first half of '14 as well then? I think we'll actually begin to see some costs being incurred in the second quarter.
In fact it'll be modest but it'll be several million dollars.
It's already embedded in the guidance we gave on costs in the second quarter.
I think we're going to prefer to keep our guidance on economics really limited to 2013.
We're too early to start talking about that but I did say in my remarks we expect to see profitability gained in the latter part of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And maybe Denise we haven't seen the kind of slowdown you reported in the Print business on the ad side for a couple of years.
And I'm wondering as you had discussions with the advertisers to maybe start the year did you get a sense that incremental portions of the budget were maybe being taken out of print into other medium? And was there any change in your annual rate card relative to trend? I'll answer the second question first.
No rates have sort of remained relatively stable.
The biggest reason why we saw the impact we did in the first quarter was really a function of 2 categories which are actually very large contributors to our overall base of business in the first quarter the Entertainment category and the Financial category.
And let me just take a moment to explain each.
On the Entertainment front the results are really impacted by quite frankly a non-existent Oscar race.
I don't know if you recall last year the Oscar race was rather strong; this year it was pretty lackluster.
That has a material effect on our business.
In addition we are seeing less spending from the studios on sustaining campaigns as their release windows shorten.
Financial was impacted by steep declines in banking investment in the Credit Card segment.
So those were really the primary reasons for the results in the first quarter.
And I do want to mention that we are seeing a different trend in the second quarter.
It is a better trend as Jim had mentioned in the guidance for both Print and for Digital.
Research Division</strong> Is that trend more broad meaning does it also include entertainment advances or is it the other categories getting better? It's coming from everywhere.
Research Division</strong> Maybe one last question.
Mark how do you size the addressable market for the lower-priced paid product? Without going into detail we did extensive consumer research and we think it's substantial.
The potential market is in the hundreds of thousands range certainly.
And we will now take our next question from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
I have a few housekeeping questions and a follow-on.
What was your Daily and Sunday circulation volume change year-over-year for both of your flagship papers please? Craig it's Denise.
For The Times Daily was down about 6%; and Sunday overall declined around 2%.
I do want to mention that Sunday home delivery did rise slightly marking the fourth consecutive period of growth for Sunday home delivery.
And again I'll just remind you that we did raise home delivery rates in January.
And on the Globe Craig Daily units were down about 10% and Sunday was down about 7%.
Okay.
And can you also give us some metrics on newsprint and consumption average price percent change year-over-year? I'll quote the resi number.
The resi prices are down about 4% for the quarter.
We think that's probably likely to carry forward for a good part of the year but I can't be precise.
So if you look at -- our total raw material costs were down about $3.3 million that would put about half of that being attributed to price and the other half to consumption.
Okay.
And then also your corporate costs because you don't break it out anymore in the press release what is the difference there versus a year ago please? The number is -- I'm not sure -- I may have -- I'm not sure I have it year-over-year but the number for the quarter is about $9 million.
We think that's a pretty good run rate for the rest of the year.
Okay.
And then also your commentary please on April.
What you're seeing right now is it somewhat better? But you think it's down at a similar rate to the fourth quarter or even perhaps even better than that? You're talking about advertising Craig? Yes.
Both on Print and Digital.
We're actually seeing an improved trend relative to the fourth quarter on both Print and Digital Advertising.
So better than -- down 8.3% excluding the extra week.
You say it's tracking even better than that you're saying? Yes.
On a combined basis.
On a combined basis yes.
Okay.
And my last question given the roughly $900 million of cash on your balance sheet and your unwillingness I guess to buy back stock or implement a dividend or a one-time dividend forgive the question but are you guys considering taking your company private? No we're not considering taking the company private.
And we will take our next question from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you expand a little bit or just a bit more color on this new lower-priced pricing strategy for the Digital subs? I guess I'd love to hear your thoughts about how it may prevent or how it won't cannibalize existing print subscribers or get existing digital subscribers maybe to sort of come down a bit to the lower-priced subscription model.
I guess any color on that would be great? Alexia I'll talk briefly and then I'm going to hand it over to Denise who's going to be driving us forward for this.
Really important to say that as I said in my remarks we're talking about lower-priced products but we're also talking about an enhanced tier which will be a higher-priced product so it's a spread of prices.
The key discovery in our research has been the people who get all digital access really want all digital access; they really want to be able to get to every part of The Times' digital offering.
And we think therefore although obviously we're going to think extremely carefully about issues of cannibalization and spin down and so forth.
We think there's a very clear proposition which works for a large and growing number of subscribers with complete access.
We have identified a very substantial number of people who are very interested in subscription to The Times but at a somewhat lower price point.
And with the recognition that will mean less than complete access.
And that's the core really of defining and why we believe there's a way of coming in if you like at a different point in the demand curve to reach a different segment of potential subscribers.
But let me pass you over to Denise.
The only thing I would add to what Mark said is that there's also strong demand for some niche products as he also mentioned in his remarks.
So we think there's an opportunity for that as well.
So it's a range of products that will be offered at a lower price point Alexia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a couple more.
Just following up on your earlier comments as well and a different topic on further opportunities for reducing the cost.
I guess any color you can give on where we could see that coming from? And lastly on your dividend comment understanding that it's not a near-term event in terms of reinstating the dividend.
Do you have any I guess any sense of when that might come back under consideration? I mean should we assume that's not really a 2013 announcement or maybe back on the table next year? And I guess anything there? Alexia I would say in the first quarter our costs were down $11.1 million.
It was a pretty broad list of categories.
I would expect that to be the case as we go forward.
Now -- so I don't expect it to come really heavily from any one particular area and we'll just continue to be tightly managing across a broad spectrum of cost categories.
I will just say as we get deeper into the year and we start spending against the initiatives the mix will change but kind of the core we kind of look at it like the core business and the growth business and I think when we look at the core business you would expect to see some pretty good consistent maybe not quite at the $11.1 million range of cost takedown but you'll see kind of us being pretty aggressive when managing that base of costs.
But again I don't think there's any one area that really sticks out as likely to contribute the most.
I would say on the dividend I think we're just going to maintain some flexibility.
We're going to keep saying what we've said for the last couple of quarters here is as long as the advertising market remains as volatile as it has been like we do we don't feel like we need to be debt-free.
That's not what we're saying but we do feel like it at this moment we feel like where our balance sheet right now feels right just given the market that we're in we'll continue to evaluate it without putting a timetable on it.
And we will take our next question from Kannan Venkateshwar with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jim so not to beat a dead horse but on the building front what are the priorities for the cash? I mean outside of dividends you obviously have your debt maturities and you have your pension obligations.
But just to understand the thought process your debt here in terms of the coupon is pretty cheap.
I don't know if you can come down to the market and raise something cheaper.
And on the pension front your cash contributions obviously beyond a particular level than you all would contribute it actually hurts shareholders because if the rates move then you over-contribute and then you cannot get that cash back.
So to that extent sitting where you are right now how are you thinking about the priorities for the cash going forward? Well let me say in my remarks I said we were going to take a pause in contributions to our pension plan.
We acknowledge that you don't want to get ahead of the underfunded balance by putting money in and have interest rates move in a positive direction.
So we're going to take a pause there.
We acknowledge the fact that we don't want to get overfunded money trapped in the plan and that is not an efficient use of cash.
So we acknowledge that.
And we actually feel good about the progress we've made on the pension front but it is still -- we went into the year with about $396 million underfunded balance pretax.
I think the market has helped us.
I think interest rates have probably helped us.
So it's probably down below that as we speak now but haven't updated that.
Look we've become a smaller company.
Our EBITDA has gotten smaller through the sale of Regional Group through the sale of About.
We're obviously exploring selling The Group and that means that the debt level we carry at $700 million relative to existing EBITDA we think is too high.
So we've clearly earmarked some of that cash for debt repayment.
And we'll explore opportunities to retire some of that debt ahead of its maturity but the return on that sort of investment is not terrific.
But we do feel like -- we feel like that level of debt relative to the size of our business is too high.
I mean that's all we have to say and I'll just refer back to my earlier remarks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the advertising front the other thing I wanted to check was when I look across some of the classified categories for example and I compare that to some of your peers your trends in general across most of the categories not just classified seem to be worse partly I guess that's a function of the revenue mix.
But is there also some element of concentration from 1 or 2 customers which is also playing into this? Not that I can think of.
I mean one of the issues if you look at real estate it's been a very -- which is one of our larger classified categories it's been a very tough market in New York because there really hasn't been any new construction.
That is actually starting to change.
So I think that will impact our results going forward but I think relative to others that might be part of the explanation for the difference in performance.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Schwartz I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
If you have any more questions please call us.
Thanks.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the New York Times Company Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Paula Schwartz.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On the call today are: Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Denise Warren Executive Vice President Digital Products and Services.
All comparisons on this conference call will be for the second quarter of 2013 to the second quarter of 2012 unless otherwise stated.
Our discussion will include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those predicted.
Some of the factors that may cause them to differ are included in our 2012 10-K.
Our presentation will also include non-GAAP financial measures and we've provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our corporate website at www.nytco.com under Investor Relations.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Paula.
Hello and good morning everyone.
In summary our second quarter results reflect significant progress both in the immediate run rates of our business and in the rollout of our medium-term strategy for The New York Times Company.
The company's operating profit before depreciation amortization and severance for Q2 2013 was $77.8 million.
That compares to $68.8 million in the same period of 2012 and represents an increase of 13% year-on-year.
In the quarter we saw a continued increase in digital subscribers a marked improvement in both print and digital advertising compared to Q1 and are on course to deliver key elements of the growth strategy I outlined in our last earnings call.
Let me begin with the digital subscription story.
Since digital consumer revenues are an important and growing part of our business we have decided starting this quarter to provide some new financial information on this revenue stream.
In the second quarter revenues from digital-only subscriptions were approximately $38 million an increase of about 44% from the same quarter in 2012.
For the first half of 2013 digital-only subscriptions totaled around $75 million up nearly 52% compared to the same period last year.
The number of digital subscribers continued to grow and at quarter-end paid digital subscriptions across the company were approximately 738 000 an increase of nearly 40% year-on-year.
We did see some slowing in the number of net new adds to our digital subscriber base in the quarter.
We attribute this deceleration to a combination of seasonality a relative lack of major news stories and the law of large numbers as we enter the third year of our pay model.
As you know we are currently working on a suite of new paid products and services.
That roadmap includes enhancements to the existing core digital product which we believe will increase its attractiveness to potential subscribers.
In the meantime we expect the net new digital adds in Q3 to be roughly in line with the Q2 numbers.
Advertising performance was significantly better in Q2 than Q1.
Although we continued to see substantial volatility month-to-month especially on the print side company-wide advertising declined by 6% versus the prior year compared to an 11% decline in the first quarter.
This relative improvement combined with strong circulation revenue and further progress on cost reduction accounts for the increase in operating profits in the quarter.
Jim will discuss the advertising and cost numbers in more detail in a few minutes.
Last quarter I laid out my initial thinking on a strategy to put The Times Company on a path to revenue and profitability growth.
We're making good progress and are on track with these strategic growth initiatives.
We will rebrand the International Herald Tribune as the International New York Times at the beginning of the fourth quarter.
The first edition of the International New York Times will be on October 15.
As I've already said we are well underway on the development of a series of new paid digital products and services to attract a wider audience of subscribers.
At this early stage we're very pleased with how the product design and development work is progressing.
On the video front we're looking to create significantly more high-quality content to meet the growing demand of users and advertisers.
Just last week we published our first Times-branded documentary and we have a number of innovative video projects that we will be sharing with users over the next couple of months.
Our strategy also includes aggregating high-quality videos from other organizations.
A recent example of our success is our collaboration with Retro Report a documentary news organization to showcase its video series which re-examines major new stories of the past few decades.
The quality and subject matter of Retro Report is a perfect match for The Times.
To expand the awareness of our video presence and to grow our streams we've began offering free unlimited access to the Times online video section during the second quarter.
Earlier this week Meredith Kopit Levien joined the company as the new Executive Vice President for Advertising.
Meredith comes to us with a proven track record as a highly skilled executive known for success energy and creativity in all of the advertising arenas important to the Times mainly print digital and live events.
She'll oversee the generation of all advertising revenue across The Times' multi-platform products and services and will provide great leadership to our already excellent global ad sales team.
We've also been hiring new technology talent to support the building phase of our new initiatives.
And we also made progress in our efforts to sell the New England Media Group which Jim will touch on in a minute.
Lastly we are aware that capital allocation remains a key topic of interest to our shareholders.
While we have had a good quarter and have improved our financial position the advertising market remains volatile and our growth initiatives are at an early stage of their gestation.
For the present we believe it is in the best interest of the company to maintain a conservative balance sheet but we will keep this position and the question of capital return under close review as we go forward.
In conclusion then this was a quarter in which we made progress on several fronts though we also know that much work lies ahead.
I look forward to updating you on future calls but for now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Follo.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Our company's positive results in the second quarter were truly an organizational-wide effort which contributions from virtually every area of the business enabling us to deliver operating profit before depreciation amortization and severance of $78 million an increase of 13% compared to the second quarter of 2012.
This progress was the result of continued growth in our digital subscription initiatives on the Circulation side; moderation of losses on the Advertising side that led to the best print trends in more than a year; and another strong showing on cost performance.
The continued growth of The New York Times digital subscription numbers combined with the price increases of both The Times and The Boston Globe together enabled Circulation revenues to largely offset advertising losses resulting in total revenues down about 1% in the quarter.
Circulation revenues rose 5% for the company and 7% for the Times Media Group in the second quarter with the monetization of our digital products as the largest contributor to the growth.
Advertising revenues trends improved in the second quarter relative to the first with Print Advertising down 7% and Digital Advertising revenues down 3% leading to an aggregate advertising decline of 6% versus the prior year compared to an 11% total advertising decline in the first quarter.
Despite this sequential improvement advertising revenue continues to be affected by secular trends economic factors and an increasingly complex digital marketplace that is facing a widespread shift towards programmatic buying channels as we have discussed here over the past quarters.
Rounding out our results for the quarter operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance decreased about 3% and on a GAAP basis costs were also down 3%.
We reported an operating profit of $53 million up 21% over the second quarter of 2012.
Diluted earnings per share excluding severance and a 2012 special item was $0.14 in the second quarter compared to $0.11 in the second quarter of 2012.
Now let me provide some additional detail on our second quarter results.
Total advertising revenues decreased 6% year-over-year and were down 2% in April 12% in May and 4% in June a pattern that demonstrates the significant month-to-month volatility and short-term volume decisions we continue to see in the market.
Second quarter print advertising revenues decreased in the National Retail and Classified categories with National and Retail equally driving the decline.
Digital Advertising revenues also decreased as growth in Automotive and Classified categories was offset by declines in National and Retail and remaining Classified categories.
Mobile Advertising reversed course from last year and saw robust growth.
Turning to the Times Media Group total revenues were up 1% in the quarter with circulation revenues up 7% and advertising down 5%.
Other revenues were down 7% as a result of our exit from our Education business at the end of last year part of our continued effort to focus on our core New York Times brand.
The overall advertising revenue decline was largely a result of print losses in all 3 major advertising categories: National Retail and Classified with Retail experiencing the largest year-over-year percentage decline.
While the National and Retail categories saw growth on the Digital side they are outweighed by losses in the real estate and recruitment classified categories.
Digital Display Advertising continued to experience challenges in the quarter from programmatic buying issues along with pricing pressures caused by the glut of available ad inventory across the market.
The Times Media Group aims to return to digital advertising revenue growth by focusing more heavily on opportunities in video tablet and unique custom advertising.
As our paid product strategy moves into the next phase The Times' digital focus remains on growing its subscriber base while expanding -- extending its brand across platforms.
As of the end of the quarter the Times Media Group including subscribers to The Times and the IHT digital packages had about 699 000 paid digital-only subscribers an increase of 37% year-over-year.
Digital subscription acquisition growth moderated in the second quarter but we are confident our new initiatives will enable us -- enable continued progress and assure that we remain industry leader on this front.
In the meantime we expect net digital subscriber additions in third quarter to be roughly in line with the second quarter increase.
Moving to The New England Media Group.
Total revenues were down 7% in the second quarter with circulation revenues down 2% and advertising revenues down 10%.
Other revenues were down 14% largely a result of lower revenues from commercial printing and distribution and direct mail advertising services.
In the second quarter The Globe began to cycle against higher commercial printing and distribution revenues and the associated costs in connection with the printing and delivery of their local competitor that began last year.
As of the end of the quarter BostonGlobe.com had about 39 000 paid digital-only subscribers an increase of about 70% year-over-year.
And The Globe raised print home delivery prices in May.
We are deep in our efforts to sell The New England Media Group and we expect to have more to share on this topic before the end of the third quarter.
Now that we have a better sense of the structure the transaction might take on we can say pretty confidently that the pension obligations are unlikely to be included in the sale.
We expect that a sale will help the company's overall operating EBITDA margins based upon past performance and absent any other factors that impact our margins.
There's not much more we can share now but we hope to be revisiting this topic with you soon when we have something more concrete to say.
Moving on to costs.
The company's performance on expense management was strong in the second quarter as we again found ways to trim across a broad spectrum of cost categories resulting in a decline in operating cost of approximately $14 million.
Lower compensation and benefit costs primarily lower pension expense and lower raw material expenses were the largest contributor to the decline.
We will continue to be diligent in trimming expenses and managing legacy costs but we'll also remain prepared to invest where necessary.
The cost associated with our new strategic initiatives will accelerate in the second half of the year and into 2014 as we begin to market these efforts domestically and internationally.
That said we continue to expect that the contribution to operating profit connected with these initiatives will turn positive in late 2014 and that we'll see full year growth in 2015.
As we have previously stated we estimate total -- that operating profit will be negatively impacted by about $20 million to $25 million in 2013 as a result of these initiatives with a modest contribution to revenues while we make significant investments in these growth initiatives.
Raw materials declined 14% in the second quarter mainly due to new -- lower newsprint consumption and lower newsprint prices.
Moving to the balance sheet.
At the end of the second quarter our cash and marketable securities totaled approximately $918 million exceeding total debt by approximately $224 million.
The increase in our cash balance was the result of cash flows from operations as we continue to generate meaningful cash.
In the quarter we also repurchased approximately $5 million principal amount of our 6 5/8% senior notes.
As discussed in the press release this morning in the second quarter we recorded an adjustment of our prior-period pension benefit obligation related to an error in the actuarial valuation of accrued benefits.
The correction of these pension obligations reduces our GAAP underfunded status by approximately $50 million and reduces operating cost by approximately $3 million annually.
As of June 30 2013 taking into account this adjustment as well as the recent developments in the interest rate environment year-to-date asset performance and the pension contributions we made earlier this year we believe that our underfunded status for the qualified plans has improved from year-end and is now estimated to be approximately $150 million on a pre-tax basis.
As such we do not plan to make any further contributions this year beyond the $7 million in mandatory requirements we are still committed to which we expect to bring our full-year total to about $75 million.
Also on the pension front as we get closer to fully-funded status we are shifting our asset portfolio increasingly towards fixed income investments which positions us well from a liability matching perspective going forward.
On the flip side that shift also means the potential impact of future rate changes on our overall funded status will be somewhat moderated.
Looking further at the balance sheet.
We have seen substantial and growing interest in the value of our headquarters building in recent months.
While we're not in the commercial real estate business and therefore don't want to speculate on the potential value of the building I'd like to quickly review some of the details around our March 2009 sale-leaseback transaction.
The transaction encompassed 21 floors or approximately 750 000 square-feet.
We still own outright 7 floors or approximately 216 000 square-feet which were not included in the transaction 6 of which we now lease to a third-party and one that we still occupy but have the option of renting -- of renting out.
And rental income we receive on the 6 floors we lease is recorded in other revenues.
The structure of the sale-leaseback transaction allows us to repurchase the 750 000 square-feet in 2019 at $250 million.
Given that we believe the value of the underlying real estate far exceeds the $250 million liability associated with the repurchase option it is almost certain that the option would be exercised at that time.
We believe that the value of the real estate we own combined with the real estate subject to the repurchase option significantly exceeds the liability we carry associated with the real estate on our balance sheet as of June 30.
Moving on to our outlook.
Third quarter Circulation revenues are expected to increase in the low- to mid-single digits as we expect to see continued benefit from our digital subscription initiatives as well as from the most recent price increases at The Times and at The Globe.
Third quarter advertising is typically very difficult to forecast since advertising revenues tend to be so concentrated in September.
And the trends in the third quarter continue to be affected by volatility compared to the first half of 2013.
In the third quarter our operating costs are expected to be in line with the same period last year.
And with that we'd be happy to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the digital subscriber base at The New York Times meaning as the sub growth [ph] flows as you get larger how have your subscriber acquisition costs changed and are your current promotional rates similar to the last year or 2? So in terms of the acquisition cost I mean it does get slightly more expensive to acquire users as you get further into the model.
So there is a slight upward trend in the costs.
And I'm sorry you had another part of that question which I blanked on.
Research Division</strong> On the promotional side are you being more promotional today versus a year or 2 ago? Or is that not necessary? No.
We're very very actively always testing and learning around promotions.
But I would say that the promotions that we've pretty much started with tend to be the winners in terms of what works.
But we're constantly learning and testing around the fringes on that.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a related question just on advertising more broadly.
Can you help me understand the ad outlook a little bit better meaning the gap from the first quarter to the second quarter was pretty wide.
And so does the third quarter commentary mean that somewhere between the first and second quarter and maybe from a category perspective what are you seeing from categories like Movies Retail Tech and Financial? It's Mark.
I'll answer that.
Yes I think our guidance would be -- although as Jim said in his remarks visibility into September which is by far the biggest factor in Q3 is limited.
Our guidance would be that we currently expect Q3 the out-turn year-on-year to July between Q1 and Q2.
In terms of categories in Q2 first of all strong -- there was strength in luxury American fashion and international fashion and transportation.
Some relative weakness in corporate advocacy no election this year.
And you mentioned studios.
Studios were soft through Q2 though we're seeing some returning and better trends for studios in Q3.
The other factor in Q3 is the presence of the London Olympic Games in 2012 and of some non-repeating business that has been on the digital side in Q3.
So far in Q3 stronger categories have been Telecoms Health Care again Transportation.
Again in the early part of Q3 Studios Entertainment in other words some are weak though we're still seeing slightly strengthening trends there and some weakness in media as well.
And we will now go to Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
A couple of housekeeping questions first if I could.
On the news print side what's the percent change for newsprint cost and also the average price percent change in the consumption? The first question.
Yes Craig.
So the total raw material cost as we broke out in our press release was down say 4.7 -- about $4.7 million.
I would say about 2/3 of that was volume related and about 1/3 was rate related.
In general on a year-over-year basis price per ton which last year and these are risi [ph] numbers we won't disclose our actual numbers.
But it is a pretty good proxy.
The risi number was 640 last year and they're off about 5% this year so that on a rate basis about 5% lower prices.
What is your guys' outlook for newsprint prices for the remainder of the year? It's hard to say.
I mean obviously demand continues to be an issue for manufacturers but the supply issue -- some of the suppliers will -- are continuing to manage aggressively outputs.
So I'd say generally we think it's going to be somewhat benign.
Again the price decline from quarter 1 to quarter 2 went from like 3% to 5% down but I think we would call for somewhat stable pricing off of the Q2 numbers for the remainder of the year.
Okay then on the Circulation side for print with the Daily and Sunday performance there year-over-year for your flagship papers  as well as The Globe? Craig it's Denise.
For The New York Times Daily was down 6.3% and Sunday was down 1.7%.
Yes and on The Globe Daily and Sunday were down both in the neighborhood of 8%.
Okay and then further given the $900 million plus on your -- cash on your balance sheet Mark can you just talk a little further about what you think you need -- what you need to see here from your operations to make you more comfortable to put back in place a quarterly dividend which you obviously you guys got rid of back in early 2009.
What's holding you back here? Because I get this question all the time from investors.
Particularly from analysts more than investors.
But -- so the answer is you'll recall in the last earnings call we said there were a number of factors we were looking at.
Volatility and we just -- Jim's just given you month-to-month numbers on Q2 which show the value see significant volatility as between Q1 and Q2 on Advertising which remains a very important revenue stream for us.
Volatility of performance in terms of that revenue is a factor.
We've outlined -- I outlined in the last earnings call a growth strategy.
We're at work on that but I'd be the first person to say we're in an early stage in the development of the growth strategy.
I want to see more development there.
And as a company as you know we're in the process of selling The New England Media Group and The Globe.
As we become a smaller company our obligations become larger.
But clearly I'm not stupid I'm aware of the growing strength in the balance sheet.
And I've said today that we're going to keep this topic under very close scrutiny over the coming months.
Then my final question if I could.
Denise you guys mentioned about programmatic digital ad revenue becoming a larger piece of your the overall pie.
What is that percentage right now of your Digital Ad revenue versus say a year ago? Craig I'm sorry.
I don't -- we've never said that programmatic's a large percentage of our business.
It's actually quite a small percentage of our business just to clarify.
And we don't disclose the actual amount.
Yes.
I mean what we have said is that the broader pressures of programmatic as part of the broader supply and demand pressures are playing out and having an impact on our digital business.
But we -- and that's one thing it is worth saying however as we've appointed during the quarter a new head of programmatic sales at The Times.
And certainly both here and in particular our new Executive Vice President for Advertising Meredith Levien will definitely be focusing on how best to optimize the opportunities in the programmatic sphere as well as every other aspect of our advertising.
And we will now go to William Bird with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about what additional cost areas you're likely to attack next.
And how much of the $20 million to $25 million in operating losses in '13 from new initiatives are still ahead of us? The spending for 2013 is largely ahead of us.
We really haven't spent more than a couple of million dollars against that.
A lot of that spending is around hiring.
It just takes a lot of the ramp-up.
But we -- we're still -- we think we're on track just to -- we're on track on those projects and therefore I expect that money to be spent this year.
And obviously we'll see meaningful pickup in spending.
And that's embedded in the guidance so kind of flat quarterly expense performance in this year.
We're down $14 million I'm not suggesting it's necessarily $14 million but it does grow significantly off of Q2.
And then Q4 even accelerates beyond that.
But look we'll see a lot of the same contributors now.
Some of things we saw and look I think our core business likely on the cost side likely to -- performs pretty consistent throughout the year meaning a lot of things that have contributed to these costs will likely continue.
Some of the big numbers obviously raw material that will continue.
Pensions was a pretty meaningful contributor in the quarter as well and that's a recurring issue we expect through the rest of the year.
And then once you get below that it's just been a long list of areas.
Everything from production efficiencies and distribution we'll continue to focus on that.
And quite frankly part of the way we've reorganized where we've got a kind of a dedicated head over print products and services a big part of that job is to really wring out some real cost efficiencies out of the distribution manufacturing process.
So we think there's more to go there as well.
But it's likely to continue to be a fairly long list.
I mean the headcount side our headcount was modestly down in the quarter.
We'll continue to look at areas.
But I think it's likely to -- going to continue to just be finding efficiencies wherever we can throughout the company and that's consistent with what we've seen the first half of this year.
Research Division</strong> And Mark you alluded to a number of kind of strategic initiatives that will come later in the year.
Can you share with us what's on that punchlist and to give us a sense of kind of upcoming events? Sure.
So we've got 4 major themes.
Development of our advertising business in particular looking hard at digital advertising really represents a fixed theme and Meredith Levine who started on Monday is going to be leading that work.
But our 4 growth themes are the development of new paid products and services Denise here is leading that work.
It's going well.
It's in early stage.
We expect in the first half of next year to be rolling out a number of new subscription intended flavors -- new flavors new products from The New York Times as part of our efforts to exploit a broader part of the demand curve of proven and expressed demand for paid products from The New York Times.
As I've mentioned in my remarks the international [indiscernible] gets underway in earnest in the middle of October with the rebranding of the International Herald Tribune into The International New York Times and that's part of a broad attempt to solidify and unify our products and service internationally both in print and in digital on the web apps and indeed live conferences under a single brand to find new audiences new customers for The New York Times special focus there on trying to just as with paid products but this time internationally to find new reservoirs potential subscribers for the times.
We're also working hard on video.
One of the stories in Q2 is of both a really striking increase -- more than 100% increase year-on-year and video impressions for The Times but -- and also a more effective monetization of those impressions.
But we are still in the position where advertising demand for opportunities for video advertising from The Times is outstripping the supply.
Rebecca Howard who we hired from AOL our new General Manager of Video again in Denise's division is working hard on that strategic initiative.
I think making progress but more on that I hope through the course of this year and into next year.
And finally we're working on a series of brand extensions developing -- we hope a broader based Games business based on the franchise and indeed the consumer expectations associated with The New York Times crossword.
E-commerce opportunities and also as I mentioned trying to develop our Conference business we've -- we're this year having more conferences both at home and abroad than any previous year in The Times' history and we think there's a real opportunity to develop that as a business as well.
And we will now go to Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions.
The first one following up on your commentary on the newspaper advertising trends there.
Can you give us some color of what you're seeing in July? Does it look a bit more like June or the softness you saw in May? Well I mean when I talked about those trends saying that we were seeing strength in Telecoms Health Care and Transportation and more challenge in Entertainment and American Fashion I didn't mention [indiscernible] there.
Just in July a little minor variation there and Media.
That's been the picture.
And as is -- I also said about July this isn't just on the digital side I think some -- it's partly drawn on the print side as well is that there were some specifics around The Olympic Games The London Games last year which are non-repeating this year I would say that broadly without going into too much detail August is looking distinctly better than July on the print side.
And as I've said and the reason that we're being fairly limited in our guidance we don't yet feel we have enough visibility into September that's available to offer reliable guidance at this stage about September and that's what we're limiting our guidance to the quarter to guidance that we expect the -- our term to be between Q1 and Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the digital sub outlook I understand your guidance for the upcoming quarter to be similar in terms of number but incremental subs but if you look longer-term I guess should we be looking at sort of early 2014 or maybe even later in 2014 when you have these new initiatives in place as the reason for potentially seeing maybe a reacceleration in the digital sub number? Or is that a fair statement? Yes Alexia it's Denise.
I think that's exactly right the whole idea is that we're really launching this next phase of growth for our digital subscription plan.
And we do think that there's substantial growth to exploit along the demand curve.
But again as you point out we're going to start with rolling out those initiatives sort of probably at the end of the first quarter of next year maybe the beginning of the second quarter so you won't start to see the steady state of that until several quarters later.
But we're excited about that and we think there's a lot of opportunity.
Research Division</strong> And then should we assume an incremental cost beside this $20 million to $25 million maybe in 2014? Or do you think this initial investment really should be the bulk of it? Well I think the costs go up because you really -- most of it is concentrated in the half year.
So you'll have a full-year of spending.
And I've said just a few minutes ago fourth quarter will be higher than third.
So -- but we'll start seeing revenues.
So I would say from a kind of a net loss perspective we begin to moderate pretty quickly and we see profitability in the latter part of 2014.
So we're at the high point of kind of net investment this year the cost we would expect to grow off of this year.
There will be -- there will be some ongoing costs associated with these products.
And in I mean obviously part of the idea of the products is as far as possible to exploit the underlying and existing and paid-for high-quality journalism from our newsroom.
But there will be some ongoing continued costs associated with continuing to offer these products.
Sure no doubt.
And I -- just to be clear I'd there's not -- the cost we're spending this year is not highly kind of onetime cost.
I mean we do have some onetime costs some of those get capitalized.
But there's a lot of people involved.
There's -- we have people in the newsroom involved we have ad sales people we have many technology people that are -- will be hired and will support the ongoing product and probably products yet to be decided on.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly Denise if you have any comments on the digital advertising outlook.
I mean should we just assume sort of a low-single digit decline for now? Is that sort of what we should expect in the industry for a while? Denise -- Alexia Denise is not meant to be talking about this stuff anymore because I've reorganized the company.
So although frankly she could probably give you a better answer than me I'm going to have a crack at it instead.
And say no we are in the process of developing and innovating we believe in what we're doing in terms of mobile digital advertising.
And we saw some good growth in Q2 there.
We -- you've heard me talking about video.
We have a new Video General Manager.
We're making real strides albeit from a very low base in terms of both numbers of impressions and also the monetizing of those impressions.
We got a new Executive Vice President of Advertising who's arrived this week.
And we are very keen to improve the performance of The New York Times Company in digital advertising.
And I actually do not think that we should be satisfied with a continued contraction of digital advertising revenue.
We're looking for solutions and that's an area where we -- which we want to restore to growth.
And we will take our last question from Kannan Venkateshwar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just one question for me which is the circulation numbers on the Sunday side for you have been consistently improving especially Sunday Home Delivery but we haven't really seen any effect of that on the ad side.
And given that Sunday accounts are a big proportion of all the print ads what's keeping that back? Here's what I would say that there's not a direct one-for-one correlation between Circulation and Advertising to be quite frank.
By the way the good news for us is on the Circulation side we make quite a bit of money from circulation because we charge a premium price for premium products.
So I'd say that's really the answer to that is it's just not that one-for-one.
We don't sell for example like a magazine or even a television program where you're guaranteeing necessarily at rate.
So I think that's probably the biggest...
So I want to stay I mean within that it's interesting I mean we've -- over the course of the calendar year relaunched T Magazine which is part of the Sunday offering and with a genuinely brilliant editor Deborah Needleman both reshaping it editorially and also making it -- having both a great read for fans of the magazine but also a great advertising platform for luxury goods.
And what we are seeing on T Magazine is very significant year-on-year increases both in ad pages and ad revenue.
And I think the combination of the digital access arbitrage which made some of the Home Delivery so attractive to consumers the stability -- the relative stability of the Sunday numbers I think it has been possibly defensively but nonetheless I think it's very effective in terms of making The New York Times on a Sunday to include these magazines.
A very strong potential buy for advertisers.
Research Division</strong> Okay and so one more question is on the Video side.
You guys launched your first documentary recently.
But -- so in terms of monetization could you just detail for us in terms of the opportunities out there and how do you think the revenue line might look on the further video product going forward? I'm going to give you I'm afraid a kind of soft problem a hard answer on this.
But we're starting from a relatively low base and a relatively low base of expectation from users of NYTimes.com and our other digital assets all video from The Times.
But I think there are really quite encouraging signs over the last 9 to 12 months but when we do get video right be it a newsfeed for a big breaking story some of the video used during the election campaign the video included -- not all monetized it must be said during the Boston bombing or the video around stories like the selection of a new pope we do well there.
I think the partnership I mentioned with Retro Report aggregation of other high-quality video were successful.
I think use of video in the multimedia story Snow Fall at the end of last year are all examples.
When we get it right it can be very eye-grabbing.
What Rebecca is now leading work on now between the newsroom and the business side of The New York Times is an integrated programming strategy for video.
And although currently the numbers for revenue video advertising are very low the extraordinary rates of increase 600% 700% 800% in some months of increase in revenue and the creative potential and the appetite for advertisers mean I think that in due course the opportunity can be very large indeed.
Over time we expect because we are not the only publishing house interested in video most of the world's content players are thinking hard about video.
We expect to see [indiscernible] video to come down.
But the appetite specifically from advertisers for opportunities to do video advertising on The New York Times are so great that we think our -- the chance we have to grow our share of the video ad market is large indeed even if rates over time come down.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Ms.
Schwartz at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The New York Times Company Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
And now I would like to turn the conference over to Andrea Passalacqua Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to The New York Times Company's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Denise Warren Executive Vice President Digital Products and Services.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that management will make forward-looking statements during the course of this call and our actual results could differ materially.
Some of the risks and uncertainties that could impact our business are included in our 2012 10-K.
I should also mention that our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our website at investor.nytco.com.
And finally in the financial results reported this morning the results of the New England Media Group are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Andrea and good morning everyone.
The third quarter of 2013 was a strong one for the company.
We increased our revenue decreased our costs and as a result significantly increased our operating profit compared to the same quarter last year.
We also made significant progress on our strategic initiatives.
But we recognize that despite these positive developments we still have a great deal of work to do to transform our business model and to achieve our goal of long-term sustainable growth.
The company's operating profit for Q3 2013 before depreciation amortization severance and a special item was nearly $40 million.
That compares to $30 million for the same period of 2012 and represents an increase of 35% year-over-year.
In the quarter we increased overall revenue by 2% with the continued build in our digital scriber numbers and notable sequential improvement in print advertising revenue trends.
The company also increased its revenue over the first 5 -- first 9 months of 2013.
Our digital subscriber count continued to grow and at quarter end paid digital subscriptions of the Times and the International Herald Tribune were approximately 727 000 an increase of more than 28% year-on-year.
We added more net new digital subscribers than we did in the second quarter.
As you know we're currently working on a suite of new paid products and services that we'll begin to launch in the first half of 2014.
And we're confident our new initiatives will ensure we remain an industry leader on this front.
Advertising performance was significantly better in Q3 than in the first half of the year.
Revenues from advertising declined in the quarter by 2% versus the prior year.
This compares to an 11% decline in Q1 and a 5% decline in Q2 for our continuing operations.
This is the best advertising revenue trend that the company has reported in 3 years.
Also during the quarter we welcomed Meredith Kopit Levien as our new Executive Vice President of Advertising.
Meredith has been charged with leading our sales effort and has already begun to make an impact on the structure and organization of our sales team recruiting bright new talents for Times including sales executives from GQ Vogue POLITICO and Forbes amongst others.
A key focus for Meredith and her team will be innovation in and development of our digital advertising proposition.
In the quarter digital advertising revenue declined 3%.
Both Meredith and I are determined to restore it to growth.
The overall relative improvement in advertising combined with strong circulation revenue and further progress on cost reduction resulted in the increase in operating profit for the quarter.
Jim will outline those numbers shortly.
We also made significant progress on our strategy in the quarter.
We successfully completed the sale of the New England Media Group.
We launched the International New York Times formerly the IHT.
As you know we believe a single national and international brand combined with tighter global newsroom and editorial integration a single worldwide advertising sales force and a new international marketing effort will yield new readers new digital subscribers and increased advertising revenues.
We're also advancing other elements of the strategy I announced in April.
In the first quarter of 2014 we will launch the redesigned nytimes.com which has been available as a prototype since earlier this year followed by our lower-priced and niche products as well as our enhanced tier.
We believe there are consumers who are interested in tiered versions of The Times current digital products and we're eager to introduce these new options to the market.
On video which is an ongoing effort we're in the process of generating significantly more high-quality content to meet growing demand.
In the first half of 2013 we doubled video streams across our digital properties.
And we're making strides with our conference business.
Last month's 3rd Annual Schools for Tomorrow conference was sold out.
It featured the first ad units for nytimes.com to host a live webcast of The Times conference.
On November 12 we'll be staging our second annual New York DealBook conference here at The TimesCenter.
In 2014 we plan a record number of 19 domestic and international conferences.
In September we announced the initiation of a quarterly dividend in the fourth quarter that began paying last week.
This allows us to return capital to our shareholders while also maintaining the financial flexibility necessary to continue to invest in our company's transformation and growth initiatives.
Given the expectation of continued variability in advertising revenue and the fact that our growth strategy is still nascent we intend to maintain our prudent view of both balance sheet and free cash flow.
To conclude we are at an early stage in the transformation of The New York Times Company and much work still lies ahead.
Nonetheless the tangible progress we've made on a number of fronts during this quarter is encouraging.
I look forward to updating you on future calls.
But for now I'd like to turn things over to Jim Follo.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
Our company's positive performance in the third quarter was the result of overall revenue growth combined with an ongoing focus on expense management which together enabled us to deliver growth and operating profit before depreciation amortization severance and special items of 35% compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Our strength on the revenue side was the result of sequential improvement in print advertising trends and continued progress in building our digital subscription revenue stream.
Circulation revenues rose 5% in the quarter with the monetization of our digital products as the main driver.
The continued growth for The Times' digital subscription numbers combined with the price increases at The Times on the print side led the circulation revenue growth to more than offset declines in advertising and other revenues resulting in an increase of revenues of 2% in the quarter.
In the third quarter digital-only subscription revenues were approximately $38 million an increase of about 29% from the same quarter in 2012.
For the first 9 months of 2013 digital-only subscription revenues totaled $110 million up 42% compared to the same period last year.
Advertising revenue trends improved in the third quarter relative to the first half of the year with print advertising revenues down less than 2% and digital advertising revenues down about 3% leading to an aggregate advertising revenue decline of 2% versus the prior year.
Print and digital advertising both saw particular strength in September.
Despite this sequential improvement advertising revenue continues to be affected by secular trends economic factors and a complex digital marketplace.
Advertising revenues again exhibited the month-to-month volatility and short-term buying decisions that have pervaded the market down 15% in July flat in August and up 7% in September.
National print advertising saw positive growth from the third quarter leading to overall positive growth in the national category while retail and classifieds each declined on the print side.
Digital advertising revenue declines were driven by the classified category and also saw decreases in national and retail.
Digital advertising continued to experience challenges in the quarter from programmatic buying issues along with the pricing pressures caused by a glut of inventory across the market.
Despite this pressure we expect to gain momentum on the digital advertising front and ultimately return to positive growth by focusing more heavily on areas such as video tablet and unique custom advertising.
Rounding out our results operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance decreased about 1% and on a GAAP basis costs were also down 1%.
We report an operating profit of $13 million in the quarter and a diluted loss per share of $0.03.
The earnings per share loss was driven mainly by an income tax expense of $2.6 million which includes a $1.5 million charge related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets as a result of the New England Media Group sale.
Excluding severance and special items the dilutive loss per share was $0.01.
Moving on to costs.
The company continued its long-term cost expense management effort in the third quarter as we again found ways to trim expenses across the broad spectrum of categories.
Lower pension expense and raw material costs as well as printing and distribution efficiencies were the largest contributors to the decline despite expenses associated with our growth initiatives in the quarter.
Raw material costs declined 13% in the quarter mainly due to lower consumption and lower newsprint prices.
We will continue to be diligent in trimming expenses and managing legacy costs but we expect the expenses associated with our new strategic initiatives will accelerate in the fourth quarter and will continue to do so in 2014 as we begin to market our new products domestically and internationally.
We are now estimating that operating profit will be negatively affected by about $10 million in the fourth quarter and about $15 million to $20 million for the full year of 2013 as a result of these initiatives.
Some of the investment spending that we expected to incur in the third quarter has been a bit delayed as hiring has taken longer than originally planned.
Moving to the balance sheet.
At the end of the third quarter our cash and marketable securities totaled approximately $938 million exceeding total debt by approximately $255 million.
The increase in our cash balance was the result of cash flows from operations as we continued to generate meaningful cash.
This amount does not take into account the New England Media Group sale proceeds.
In the quarter we also repurchased about $12 million principal amount of our 6 5/8% senior notes.
As Mark mentioned we've finalized the sale of the New England Media Group last week for approximately $70 million in cash subject to customary adjustments and we've also filed an 8-K with further historical information for the remaining company.
We will not be updating our underfunded pension status today but I can confirm that the estimate we gave on our second quarter call would not have been affected by the New England Media Group sale since we are retaining substantially all pension and post-retirement obligations.
Finally we've begun the marketing of one additional floor of our headquarters building for rental purposes which makes up a total of about 31 000 square feet.
We aim to complete this process in the middle of next year and we'll begin recording rental income at that time.
This will bring us to a total of 7 leased floors and we don't currently anticipate leasing any additional floors.
As a reminder before we get into our fourth quarter outlook financials for the quarter 2012 continuing operations were provided through the last -- through last week's 8-K filing.
Our fourth quarter guidance on revenue trends will be based upon a 13-week comparison excluding the impact of the additional week in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In last year's fourth quarter we estimated the extra week resulted in an incremental $14 million of circulation revenue and $12 million in advertising revenue.
Fourth quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase in the low-single digits as we expect to see continued benefit from our digital subscription initiatives and from this year's print price increase at The Times which will be partially offset by difficult print comparisons connected to last year's election season.
Advertising revenue trends in the fourth quarter remains subject to month-to-month volatility and are expected to decrease in the low-single digits.
Fourth quarter operating costs based upon the comparison with the longer 2012 quarter are expected to increase in the low-single digits as investments around our strategic growth initiatives offset the benefit of a shorter quarter.
And with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question is from Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the improvement we saw in the newspaper the print advertising revenue in the quarter with a particularly strong performance I think you highlighted in September.
Could you give us any more detail on really what was the delta there? I mean what really -- I mean it is really a very impressive number considering the trends over the last several years and I know you said it's very volatile.
But what really -- and is there anything that really changed there or was it just an abnormally strong September that pulled up the whole quarter? And I know you said it's still lumpy going into Q4 but any read on what -- anything you can share about October would be helpful as well.
Alexia it's Mark here.
I think it's safe to say that we saw through the quarter strength in many categories across the -- within the national category many different categories improving.
Amongst strong categories in quarter 3 in print were American fashion and international fashion and corporate.
And I don't want to say too much about October.
You heard Jim give the overall guidance of -- for the quarter of low single-digit declines.
We have limited visibility even now into November and December and the fall of the holidays is different this year from last year.
But it's fair to say that the quarter has got off to a good start.
We're seeing again strength in a number of categories: financial American fashion automotive.
And we also through September and October seen a strength in the entertainment category as well.
Research Division</strong> And just a second question on the -- how we -- how should we look at the digital sub-growth digital only sub-growth going forward? I know you're in the process of creating this tiering structure changing some of the pricing.
But in the interim as that's sort of being rolled out we've anniversary-ed toward the 2-year launch of this should we still be able to see some sub-growth in the interim continuing? Well -- I mean I'm going to hand over to Denise.
But just to say that -- you've heard me say that we had slightly more net added digital news -- digital subscribers in the third quarter than the second quarter.
And we are continuing to see growth in the current model with the current offering obviously our strategies to add additional different products to the portfolio absolutely with the intention of trying to reach out to new subscribers.
But we are continuing to see some buoyancy in the current portfolio lineup.
But Denise you want to add to that? Sure.
I guess what I'll add is of course the big initiatives that we're betting on to roll out next year are where a lot of the big growth is going to come from.
We've talked about those extensively.
And as Mark mentioned the current model still have some steam.
Obviously the fourth quarter guidance is reflective of that.
But let me just mention a couple of things that we haven't spoken about in the past just to give you a sense of how we're planning to increment subscriptions going forward.
One is a focus on corporate sales.
That's something we really haven't spoken about.
But we're -- we believe there's more room to grow here and we're much more focused on this effort.
The second one is interesting.
You might have seen this Alexia.
On Sunday we're actually launching a single-copy promotion.
This is a test of an ability to convert single-copy users to digital subscribers.
If you pick up a copy of the paper this Sunday you'll see a unique code that will enable you to redeem for 4 weeks of digital access.
Our goal here is to generate new subscriptions and actually get data on our single-copy users.
As you can imagine it's very very difficult for us to get that kind of data.
So just 2 examples of things that we're excited about and just innovation that occurs in the model on a fairly regular basis.
The other thing I'll mention is that we've got a pretty significant focus on retention.
We've revamped our call center and we now have experts focused on retention both on the print and the digital side of the operation.
And this is in a pilot phase right now but we're actually seeing some nice results.
So just a couple of examples to give you a sense of how we're planning on managing this and where we generate -- where we can generate some opportunity going forward.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then just in terms of when we'll see -- when from the outside should we really expect to see some -- I guess some cues that the rollout the digital initiative rollouts are being successful just for data points.
Is it still a couple of quarters out where we can really sort of ascertain how successful they've been? Yes.
We're not planning to roll out the first of these until later in -- well sometime in the second quarter.
And again you have to give these initiatives some time to kind of get to their steady state.
Your next question is from John Janedis of UBS.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the pressure on digital advertising.
This is the first time I can recall where digital underperformed print.
Jim I know you mentioned your assumption of a turn I think in the current quarter.
But is it your sense that the things you're focusing on will not be subject to some of the pressures you've seen on a historical basis? Well as I -- if I can go first.
I think what we saw in quarter 3 was a significant improvement in the print numbers.
That's clear.
Digital for some quarters now has been actually on a pretty steady rate of decline at around a 3% mark.
John you heard me say that something that I -- the whole management team but in particular our new Executive Vice President for Advertising that is Kopit Levien are really focused on developing and innovating our offering in digital advertising to correct that decline and restore digital advertising to growth numbers.
And Meredith has been here still only really a few weeks now.
But she is right now hard at work with her colleagues on trying to address this and return digital advertising to growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think -- or I'm sorry if I missed this but did you give an outlook for digital sub-growth in 4Q? I know you had a tough comp from the election last year.
Maybe on a related note being I guess 6 or 7 quarters plus in how has retention changed for digital subs? So let me just answer the first question which is we expect that the number of subscribers in the fourth quarter will roughly be in line with the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> The number of ads.
Yes number of ads exactly.
Thank you.
And then retention's actually still very very strong with our digital subscribers.
I mean as you would expect as you bring on folks who are sort of less loyal and it gets a bit harder to attract folks as the model gets more mature those folks tend to have retention rates that are less than the folks you brought on initially.
But on average we're really really pleased with it.
We obviously benchmark against our print retention and we are well above our print retention rate.
So we continue to see nice performance.
But as I said and -- we think there's more to be had there and it's the reason why we're focusing on retention in our call center.
We think that's a real opportunity for us.
But that's a quite an interesting point.
It's not a widely known point that the retention profile for digital is actually slightly better than print.
Research Division</strong> And one last thing for you.
So you talked about total initiative spend in prior quarters maybe from what we call kind of a phase one there.
Has that number changed going into '14 in terms of the total number for phase one? No.
I would say not.
We just got off slower but we'll -- I think we're largely on track for '14.
The next question is from Craig Huber of Huber Research.
A few questions.
So first concerning your print ad revenue trend here in the third quarter year-over-year can you give us the percent change of your top 5 or 6 national ad categories? How did they perform? Look at that I'm not sure how valuable it is to be honest because they dot around year-on-year.
But if we look at year-on-year comparisons I'll give you a few in Q3: American fashion was up nearly 31% year-on-year; international fashion up 17%.
I think in particular we point to the success of teen magazine as a great magazine but also a great platform for fashion advertising as being part of that.
We also saw a very significant growth in corporate with corporate year-on-year showing something like a 57% 57.4% increase year-on-year.
But the -- I think the most important thing to say about Q3 is we saw a broad frontal improvement across more categories than we've seen for some quarters now all in the -- under the heading of national.
Mark what about the luxury good category? How did that do please? Do we have numbers to hand on luxury? What we call American fashion includes an awful lot of luxury and international fashion also includes luxury.
So I think you can take them out that luxury has done very well.
Also it must be said in the quarter I think also luxury was a pretty strong performer for the International Herald Tribune.
And then also your -- these last 7 quarters of roughly down 2% to 4% digital ad revenue performance is that all pricing or is there some volume pressure in there as well? Essentially it's all price.
Yes.
It's all price.
And then also I think it's roughly $33 million of digital ad revenues you guys had in the quarter.
How much of that would you ballpark this mobile advertising? Small.
Less than 10%.
Okay.
And then finally if I could just 2 housekeeping questions.
What was the daily and Sunday print circulation percent change year-over-year? Daily was down 5.1% and Sunday was down 2.5%.
Okay.
Then lastly for newsprint.
What was the percent change for average price and for consumption? The decline was almost split exactly down in the middle between -- it was between price and volume.
I think the total cost was down somewhere around $3 million $3.2 million.
Split that right in half between the 2.
Next question is from William Bird of FBR.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned on video advertising that you doubled the streams in the first half.
Can you talk about I guess how video and revenue is developing and just what are some of the next steps for video? Perhaps I'll have a go.
But again I'll ask Denise to come in as well.
The key point of that video is that there is very very strong demand.
And we're working hard to increase the number of impressions partly because we want to improve the overall user experience and we think that the risk -- real appetite from users of digital services for video but also because there's very considerable and as yet unfulfilled advertising demand.
So we're hard at work on a very wide-ranging strategy for improving the quality and relevance of video the amount of video and the findability and the -- as were the marketing of video on the site to take advantage of both the commercial and the creative opportunity.
But Denise do you want to add to that? I -- there's nothing to add perfectly well stated.
Very good.
Research Division</strong> And separately do you have an early sense of what the expense outlook might look like for 2014? Not yet.
But what I would say is we'll have a full year's worth of spending related to the growth initiatives.
You got to account for that.
Most of our spending this year has really been third ramping up into the fourth and then you probably get a pretty good idea of what that run rate numbers should be in the fourth quarter.
I said the operating profit impact of that was $10 million some revenues associated with that.
So the costs related to that you get a pretty good idea.
And that number will grow as -- on a quarterly basis.
So you'd have to expect that you'd see some growth in expenses on that line alone.
And then we're deep into the planning process on the rest of business.
It's hard to make a call now.
We continue to try and put downward pressure on costs everywhere we can.
Sure.
I mean that's kind of -- we think that is core part of our strategy to manage kind of the core business costs and we've yet to have a year in the last 6 or 7 that we haven't found ways to reduce that.
But it's early.
It's hard to make a commitment at this moment.
The next question is from Kannan Venkateshwar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So a few questions first was on the EBITDA front.
I think till recently you guys have guided to a mid-single-digit kind of growth rate and you came in at about 35%.
Was that just related to the $10 million that got deferred in expenses to the fourth quarter? No.
I would say look this is a relatively small quarter right.
So the base number last year EBITDA was $30 million.
So small changes in advertising for example drive big changes in percent.
As you -- as we've said the September ended up being a very very strong quarter and picked up quite a bit of -- accelerate quite a bit as we went through the quarter.
So it -- advertising is 90% margin business.
So when you see a 7% growth September advertising that has very big impact on kind of year-over-year growth percentages.
But in absolute dollars it doesn't necessarily have to be that big to do that percentage.
That's really the key reason behind that.
I think we had a little bit of better performance on costs.
I think our guidance in -- at a conference in September was a bit flat.
We came in I think down a couple of million or so.
It's just a couple things here and there largely off a small base is why that percent...
So are now moving to print advertising from July year-on-year to significantly down through August flat through opposed to September as -- the outlook changed significantly through the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other -- you guys had the launch of the International New York Times recently.
So when we look at 4Q some of the digital circulation numbers that you're guiding towards does that include the impact of that launch? It does.
But I want to caution you it's very very small in 4Q.
Our efforts really get ramped up later in the quarter and next year.
Our objective really this year is we're introducing a new brand to the audience and making sure that the people who were formerly IHT subscribers become INYT subscribers.
So that's really what the focus of our efforts are.
We're actually seeing very nice results better than we had expected.
So we're off to a very strong start.
But the numbers that are included in this quarter will be very very small as it relates to that initiative.
Yes.
The base we're working off is 10% roughly of digital subscribers.
And I think history suggests that although some American brands I think of Discovery I think of CNN have delivered very successful international businesses.
It takes time because the fundamental awareness of the brand and the products are much lower outside the U.S.
than it will be inside.
So we see this is a long-term growth initiative.
We're hard at work at it.
We don't expect instant results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in terms of the International Herald Tribune could you give us some visibility in terms of what that model there is like which countries does this new brand being launched in? And what does the pricing plan look like? Is it similar to the U.S.
and so on? Well I mean the -- I mean without going into too much detail we have a physical newspaper which has got a very great historical strength but it's pretty mature in Europe at -- but has seen opportunities and growth especially in Asia but also in some other parts of the world.
We believe that -- 2 things the name change.
It's a -- for consumers a relatively subtle adjustment nonetheless the name change plus the much stronger integration both of the editorial and newsroom operations between New York Times New York and now International New York Times in Paris and Hong Kong and in commercial terms more importantly the closer working together of the advertising teams.
Essentially we're moving to a single global advertising sales force will mean that the new physical international New York Times will be an even stronger advertising platform with particular strength in the luxury categories.
And the -- therefore the profitability we didn't break out the profitability of the international newspaper of the physical newspaper should be secured and may even increase.
Meanwhile on the digital side we're already obviously because it's the Internet we have a global presence for nytimes.com and for our apps.
For the first time the whole suite of digital products will be under The New York Times banner.
And we have plans through a much more coherent and a more aggressive marketing campaign over time to build usage of the different digital products and to encourage more people to become subscribers which also should both improve the effectiveness of the digital and assets as advertising platforms but also as you heard me say we also will increase the -- both the numbers of subscribers and the revenue we get from digital subscription.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question on the cost side.
I mean you've been able to squeeze out a lot of costs over the last few years and that continues to be the case even in the guidance years.
So where exactly is this cost cut coming from? If you could just provide some visibility that would be great.
I'll let Jim answer that.
But just one example Jim mentioned in his remarks is that we are -- we have been reshuffling people around this building and believe that we can successfully in The New York Times using one fewer floor of this building in 620 Eighth Avenue and we'll rent out the building and get a revenue -- a positive revenue stream out of that.
That will be an example of what we're up to.
Look we've had positive revenue cost trends on pension this year.
Now some of that is simply we're materially better funded than we once were so just a map around that helps us this year.
There were some actions taken with respect to union agreements earlier in the year that also contributed to that.
Obviously on the supply side and manufacturing side we continue to look at all areas.
From outside printing distribution we aggressively go out that because we got some really good smart people in that area continue to do really good job.
We are -- we've been doing this a while so it does tend to have to be pretty broad in the categories.
But those are some of the bigger categories.
As we go forward I think the fourth quarter guidance would suggest -- see a little bit of pressure on the cost side.
But I think long term we think there's some more opportunity and -- we just continue to have to be aggressive at it that's all.
And headcount is always an issue.
We're adding quite a bit of heads on the growth side.
But in the core business we continue to find ways to be able to do things more efficiently with less bodies and we'll have to continue to do that.
That's right.
And last week we ran a 2-page ad for The Book Thief which consists of 2 blank pages in the newspaper and saved us a fortune on ink.
Our next question is from Westcott Rochette from S&amp;P Capital IQ.
I had just 2 basic questions one on your conference business.
So you have 14 planned for next year is that correct? 19.
19 sorry.
How does that compare to 2013 and kind of in broad strokes where do you see that business kind of going over the next few years? So I think we had 15 or 16 this year.
I haven't got the number to hand but that sort of number.
Well the -- one of the reasons we love the conference business is firstly that a well-managed conference business is itself a good -- brings a good margin within and it's profitable business.
But also potentially it offers an additional complementary platform for advertisers and sponsors and it's a great -- potentially a great way of marketing The Times both -- as we're B2B and B2C in terms of getting some of our best known journalists and opinion writers out there.
So we think it's a very good additional platform alongside our physical newspapers and our digital platforms.
And the plan is to continue to build it out both domestically and internationally.
So although you're going to see the expansion in 2014 that's not the end of the story.
We have -- we can build it out into a business which is always going to be small relatively to the main news business that we're in domestically and internationally but is a very useful adjunct.
Right.
All right sounds good.
One other question.
You mentioned going into corporate sales  which is something that I haven't really heard you guys focus on before.
Is that going to be similar to the way you've kind of approach education? And as you kind of manage that business how are you going to monitor and manage kind of a cannibalization of your existing customers at probably a lower rate as they get to the corporate? So the answer is yes it'll be very similar to the education business.
And interestingly what we've actually found is the corporate sales business actually can be a way to generate leads for the consumer business.
Why is that? Because essentially what we do is we only enable you to use New York Times access through your corporate IP.
So there's a really hard fence around it.
And once you get hooked you kind of want it.
You want to use it personally.
So we actually have found that corporate sales have actually led to increases in consumer sales.
So we're excited about that.
Your next question is from Edward Atorino of Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
What is the current single-copy daily sales and Sunday sales? Have they have been holding up going down? The subscription numbers are interesting but how is single copy doing? Well single copy is really the most challenged of our circulation.
And in the -- in quarter 3 New York Times daily single copy was down somewhere in the 15% range and on Sunday probably a little bit less than that maybe 10%.
Yes just under -- around 9-ish%.
LLC Research Division</strong> What percent of the total would that be? We're talking about total dailies say I would call it...
I think daily single copy is around 20% 25% and Sunday less than 20% about 19%.
That's right.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Sunday single copy same dimension about 25%? A little less than that a little bit less than 10 on a percentage basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's really small okay.
On the new services for the online are you giving sort of a package deal individually priced services? How is that going to subscriptions? Okay.
So 2 elements to this -- and it's Denise.
Two elements.
First let me just say that everything every new product that we're launching will be incorporated into the core subscription bundle okay? So if you're a current subscriber you will have access to the new products we're launching.
So that's the first thing to say.
Second thing to say is that we've got a number of different products launching at different price points.
The idea here is to capture the demand that we see existing along the entire demand curve.
So we have some -- basically a number of products rolling out at price points that are lower than -- the least expensive offer right now which is a $15 every 4 week offer for the web and smartphone app.
We've uncovered a sizable demand at lower price points and we want to make sure we capture that.
But we also have what we're calling an enhanced tier a tier that sits on top of the most expensive prices we charge for additional products and services that you can add to an existing bundle be it digital or print.
LLC Research Division</strong> This -- so a package of things? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Not one things okay.
In the enhanced tier.
It's a package of things.
In the other products and services that I mentioned there are several that we're rolling out several unique products that we're rolling out that are each different.
LLC Research Division</strong> Also will the International -- it's going to be called then International New York Times have the same link with the online product? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> So -- and it's package deal separate pricing? Yes.
It'll be -- it's very similar structure to what we have here in the domestic marketplace.
I mean we're going to experiment with pricing in the international marketplace as we have to right? So that's -- again that's part of all -- that's part of the marketing and acquisition plans that we have set out for later on this year and next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Last question.
Jim would you mind going through the strategic expense sort of track? I was a little confused which is easy.
Well we said in the fourth quarter that operating profit would be negatively impacted by $10 million in the fourth quarter.
Now we're not yet really getting meaningful dollars in revenues out of those initiatives.
So you would expect on the cost basis something a little bit north of $10 million on the cost basis on strategic initiatives.
For the full year we said $15 million to $20 million operating profit impact again with some contribution to revenues.
So that would suggest your costs impact this year would be something north of $15 million to $20 million on the cost side.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that's going to extend into '14? And then when I said '14 is you got to assume -- because most of our spending has happened back half of the year and is accelerating just given the numbers I gave you fourth quarter spending will be meaningfully more than third quarter spending and therefore you need to kind of build in that ramp throughout the year and you'll have 4 quarters of spending against those growth initiatives.
Marketing dollars in our digital products and services will be really all around once the product launches.
So you would expect to see a fairly significant ramp as you launch those products in our cost base.
LLC Research Division</strong> Pricing strategy for '14? You've sort of raised prices pretty regularly.
And as the year comes along will that be a continued process? It'll be a continued thing we'll look at.
But as usual we never preannounce any sort of pricing strategies.
LLC Research Division</strong> What is -- and say what is the current monthly -- I should say I should know this.
What is the current monthly price for the online product? So it's -- there's 3 different prices depending upon the package you buy.
The least expensive is $15 every 4 weeks.
That's for access to the website and smartphone apps.
Then there's $20 every 4 weeks for access to the website and tablets and then there's the all-digital access bundle which is $35.
And again that' -- as Denise said that's a 4-week thing.
So it's 13 billing so multiply those by 13 for your annual revenues.
And next is a follow-up for Craig Huber Huber Research.
Yes.
I did want to ask these price points here $15 $20 and $35 for your core digital product do you think you have any room to raise prices there over the next 12 months? And obviously you guys have been very aggressive raising price on print for years in various stages and stuff.
But do you think you have room to raise prices or are you just going to try and kind of focus on the volume side of things? We think that the greatest value we can deliver to the corporation is to execute on the strategy that we've outlined by managing the demand curve and rolling out the products and services that we've identified for next year.
That really is the best value that we can deliver to the organization at this stage.
It's obviously the case as the broader the portfolio of products you've got and the more price points you got the more flexibility you have over time to adjust price.
But as exactly as Denise says we're mainly focused currently on a strategy of a broader portfolio.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Andrea Passalacqua for any closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for your time and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Okay.
Goodbye everyone.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The New York Times Company Q4 and Full Year 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Andrea Passalacqua Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to The New York Times Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Denise Warren Executive Vice President Digital Products and Services; and making her debut on this call Meredith Kopit Levien Executive Vice President of Advertising.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that management will make forward-looking statements during the course of this call and our actual results could differ materially.
Some of the risks and uncertainties that could impact our business are included in our 2012 10-K.
I should also mention that our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our website at investors.nytco.com.
And finally this morning we will discuss the impacts on our revenues of the extra week in our fiscal fourth quarter and full year of 2012 which is also provided in the exhibits of this morning's press release.
Cost and profitability metrics include the additional week.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Andrea and good morning everyone.
2013 is my first full year at the company and we finish on a high note posting solid results in the fourth quarter.
As you'll hear there's some complexity in comparing the quarter with the same period in 2012 because of the special items and the fact that Q4 2012 had an extra week.
Nonetheless we were pleased with the fundamentals of our business in the period.
We slightly increased our overall revenues excluding that extra week in 2012.
We saw favorable trends in both print and digital advertising and added more net new digital subscribers than in the previous 2 quarters.
We turned costs notwithstanding significant investment in our growth initiatives.
We also made noteworthy progress on our new strategy in 2013 and we remain on track to execute that strategy in 2014 and beyond.
This year will be an important one for us with a particular focus on new digital subscription products we intend to launch in the second quarter and on our efforts to restore digital advertising to sustainable growth.
The new products are intended to expand our subscription base by offering consumers a wider and more tailored set of subscription options with additional packages available at price points both below and above our current portfolio.
The reaction of readers to these products and the new portfolio will obviously be key and we're watching that closely throughout the year.
At the start of 2014 we launched the redesigned nytimes.com.
It's been getting almost unanimously positive reviews with cleaner more engaging user experience.
As part of the redesign Meredith and her team made The Times' first foray into native digital advertising with the launch of paid posts and this effort is already driving incremental advertising revenue.
We remain committed of course to always clearly labeling these advertiser stories as such but we're also heavily focused on advertising innovation as traditional banner advertising becomes a smaller contributor to revenue industry-wide.
But native advertising is only one of the new digital advertising products will be introducing in the coming months as part of a broad transformation of our capabilities in advertising.
In recent months Meredith has made some formidable external hires to complement our already strong in-house talent roster.
She's placed a fresh focus on ad tech and combined our U.S.
and global sales forces into a unified team.
In 2014 we will apply greater focus to mobile monetization seek to expand our high CPM video inventory and develop more sophisticated audience targeting capabilities.
This will be a critical year in the story of advertising of the company.
And as you've heard Meredith is here this morning to answer any questions you may have about that.
Next international.
As you know we've rebranded the former IHT as the International New York Times but much of our work on the international expansion front still lies ahead of us.
Bolstered by new international marketing efforts and that combined worldwide advertising sales force in 2014 we will continue our pursuit of new readers new digital subscribers and increased advertising revenues from our audience outside the U.S.
With regard to video we're providing significantly more premium content to meet growing demand and in the fourth quarter launched The New York Times Minute which is a 1-minute video capsule of the day's top headlines updated 3x every week day.
In 2013 we increased our video stream count by more than 60% and that was against tough election-related comparisons in the second half of 2012.
And finally as part of the larger brand extension initiative we're also making strides with our conference business.
Our expanded 2014 lineup of domestic and international conferences will again include our popular luxury and oil and money conferences as well as our annual cities schools and DealBook conferences and we'll incorporate some new conferences to be announced soon.
But let me turn now from our future plans to the results of the quarter.
The company's operating profit for Q4 2013 was $69 million.
That compares to $35 million in the same period of 2012 and a large gap arises principally from a special charge in 2012's fourth quarter.
For full year 2013 the company had an operating profit of $156 million compared to $104 million in 2012.
Excluding depreciation amortization severance and special items operating profit in 2013 grew to $256 million from $245 million in 2012.
The growth in profitability in 2013 over 2012 is encouraging given the extra week in 2012 and given that 2013 also saw a significant investment in our growth initiatives.
The revenue performance of both the quarter and the full year was the result of the continued build in our digital subscription base as well as an improvement in advertising revenue trends excluding that additional week.
Print advertising revenue showed steady improvement in the second half of the year declining less than 2% in the fourth quarter in line with third quarter levels while digital trends also showed progress in the quarter and ended up roughly flat.
At quarter-end paid digital subscriptions across the company was approximately 760 000 an increase of 19% year-on-year.
We added 33 000 net new digital subscribers in the quarter which is more than we added in each of the previous 2 quarters and positions us well to 2014.
Our advertising performance maintained the momentum it began in the third quarter as overall advertising revenues declined 1%.
Advertising revenues ended the year on significantly better footing than they began it declining an average of 2% in the second half of 2013.
In the quarter digital advertising revenue was roughly flat which represents an improvement on the pattern we've seen in recent quarters and a step in the right direction that we recognize we have a lot more to do on this front.
The relative improvement in advertising revenue circulation revenue growth and reduced costs contributed to our performance in the quarter.
Our declining operating costs demonstrate that the expense management around legacy costs was tight in 2013.
We will ensure that it remains tight in the current year.
We need to reduce existing costs wherever we can not least to reduce the bottom line impact to the investments associated with our strategic initiatives.
Jim will outline those numbers in more depth soon.
So to conclude the tangible progress we made on a number of fronts in 2013 is encouraging.
We posted improved results in the year while moving forward with our strategic plan.
We remain in the early stages of the transformation of The New York Times Company and 2014 will be a year in which we have a lot to deliver.
I look forward to updating you on future goals.
But for now I'd like to turn things over to Jim Follo.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As you've already heard because of fiscal calendar both the fourth quarter and full year of 2012 had an additional week for purposes of our results.
My comments that address revenues will exclude the impact of the actual week.
Costs were more difficult to break down on a week-to-week basis so cost and profitability metrics include the additional week.
As Mark noted we closed 2013 on a positive note marked by a quarter of improved revenues and attention to costs.
We're taking a very strategic approach to our investment spending fueling those initiatives that are clearly focused on driving revenues especially in our digital subscription business while continuing to search for avenues to reduce nonessential costs.
Our fourth quarter performance reflects the steady build of the circulation side of our business combined with continued improvement on its advertising side resulting in slight overall revenue growth.
Costs again declined the result of our continuing commitments to cost -- to expense management as well as the impact of the additional week.
Operating profit before depreciation amortization severance and special items decreased 12% to $97 million largely as a result of the additional week and the impact of spending on growth initiatives.
Circulation revenues rose 3% in the quarter with the digital subscription revenue stream contributing the most to that increase partially offset by difficult print comparisons connected to last year's election season.
We saw a 19% growth in the company's digital subscription base and also benefited from the 2013 home delivery price increases at The Times.
This combination led to circulation revenue growth to more than offset declines in advertising and other revenues resulting in a slight overall revenue growth.
Advertising maintains its momentum on the print side while showing improvement on the digital side leading to an aggregate decline of 1%.
In the fourth quarter digital-only subscription revenues were approximately $39 million an increase of approximately 22% from the same quarter in 2012.
For the full year digital-only subscription revenues totaled $149 million up 36% compared to 2012.
Advertising revenue trends continued to improve in the fourth quarter relative to the first half of 2013 with print advertising revenues again down less than 2% and digital advertising revenues roughly flat.
Advertising revenues continued to exhibit the month-to-month volatility and short-term volume decisions that have pervaded the market up 8% in October down 1% in November and down 11% in December.
Print and digital advertising both saw particular strength in October and notable weakness in December.
National print advertising saw positive growth in the fourth quarter leading to overall positive growth in the national category while retail and classifieds both declined on the print side.
Our roughly flat digital advertising revenue was driven by losses in the classified category and less so the national category as growth in retail largely offset these declines.
Digital advertising continued to experience challenges in the quarter from programmatic buying issues which led to pressure on ad rates as well as some additional pricing pressures caused by the glut of traditional ad inventory.
But as Mark mentioned we're already gaining traction on the digital advertising front and feel we have established a path towards positive growth.
Rounding out our results operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance decreased 3%.
And on a GAAP basis costs were also down 3%.
We report an operating profit of $69 million in the quarter and diluted earnings per share of $0.24.
Excluding severance and special items diluted earnings per share was $0.26.
The company continued its long-term expense management effort in the fourth quarter as we found ways to lower overall cost by trimming across a broad spectrum of categories even in the face of increased investments associated with our growth initiatives.
In addition to the effect of the additional week printing and distribution efficiencies as well as low professional fees raw material expense and pension expense were the largest contributors to the decline.
We will continue our work on trimming costs this year as we ramp up initiative spending.
Until the second quarter of 2014 when the initiatives really get underway we're still making significant investments largely ahead of associated revenues particularly for our new pay products.
We continue to market one floor of our headquarters building for rental purposes which makes up a total of 31 000 square feet.
We aim to complete this process this year and we'll begin recording rental income at that time.
This will bring us to a total of 7 leased floors.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Our liquidity position only strengthened in 2013.
In addition to steady cash flows from operations our balance sheet was bolstered by the proceeds in the sale of the New England Media Group as we further sharpened our focus on our core brand.
All-in we ended 2013 with approximately $1 billion of cash and marketable securities even after making $74 million in pension contributions during the year.
At year end our total cash position exceeded our total debt and capital lease obligations by approximately $316 million.
For accounting purposes on a GAAP basis based upon preliminary results the underfunded status of our qualified pension plans as of December 29 2013 was approximately $80 million.
That compares to $350 million at the end of 2012.
The funded status of the company's qualified plans was positively affected by the rise in interest rates and strong pension asset performance.
We expect our retirement cost in 2014 will continue to experience significant volatility as we experienced in 2013.
In 2013 retirement costs including pension multi-employer pension and retiree medical cost declined $27 million to $18 million as pension interest costs were significantly lower and expected earnings on plan assets were significantly higher in 2013 than in 2012.
In 2014 we expect that retirement costs will increase approximately $19 million to $37 million due principally to lower expected return on pension assets due to a shift in asset mix to bonds from equity higher interest costs the impact of the sale of the New England Media Group on retiree medical costs and higher multi-employer pension withdrawal costs.
As the company has gotten smaller over the past several years mainly as a result of divestitures our retirement plan obligations have not declined proportionately as we've largely retained all pension liabilities.
As a result due to the large size of our pension plans relative to the size of the company the impact of changes and discount rates asset performance and funded position may obscure trends and financial performance of our operating business.
Looking ahead in our first quarter 2014 earnings release we'll begin to provide a non-GAAP presentation of adjusted operating costs and adjusted operating profit in each case excluding nonoperating retirement in costs in an effort to provide a clearer picture of the operating performance of our business.
Our adjusted operating profit calculation going forward will remove financing and amortization costs related to historical pension retiree medical and multi-employer pension withdrawal liabilities.
Service cost from pension retiree medical benefits will continue to be included but the other pension components including interests expected return on assets and amortization of actuarial gains and losses which are not related to the operations of our business will be excluded and we will refer to them as nonoperating retirement expenses.
For the same reason we will also present our operating expenses excluding depreciation amortization severance and nonoperating retirement costs.
These adjusted measures will be provided as a supplement to GAAP operating cost and operating profit.
We'll also include a reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to GAAP operating profit and adjusted operating costs to GAAP operating costs in our earnings release.
We believe this view will make it easier to understand how our employee benefit plans affect our financial position or operating performance allowing for better long-term view of the business.
The adjusted presentation just also facilitate comparisons with operations of peers.
Moving to our outlook.
First quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase in the low-single digits and we expect to see continued benefit from our digital subscription initiatives as well as from the most recent Times' home delivery price increase.
Advertising revenue trends in the first quarter remain subject to month-to-month volatility but are currently expected to be in line with fourth quarter levels based upon a 13-week comparison.
We expect comparisons will get tougher as the year progresses given that advertising in the second half of 2013 was relatively strong.
First quarter operating costs are expected to increase in the low- to mid-single digits as investments around the company's strategic growth initiatives accelerates.
In addition to the higher retirement costs I mentioned earlier we expect that cost related to our growth initiatives will increase by approximately $25 million to $30 million year-over-year in 2014.
We expect the operating profit will again be negatively affected by the issues for the full year of 2014 with potential positive contributions to profitability beginning late in the year.
And with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on your outlook for the advertising revenue.
Do you have any sense of how advertising trends did in the month of January? And then a second question sort of a bigger question is how do you see the downside risk or I guess the risk-reward of the changing pricing tier on the digital subs? You guys have done such a great job a few years into this paid model.
You came to see very good growth.
I guess if you could just talk more broadly about how we can sort of assess the risk and reward of this new initiative and -- coming up.
Alexia it's Mark here.
I'm going to ask Meredith to answer the first question and perhaps get Denise to effect on the second one.
But Meredith why don't you have a go at the January trends? Sure.
So in January we would say in print we saw a nice start to the year generally bolstered by the Super Bowl and the Oscars rates.
So beyond that as Jim said we expect the rest of the quarter to be broadly in line with what we saw in the fourth quarter.
Yes.
And then looking further ahead we're also noting some slightly tougher year-on-year comps later in the year.
Yes absolutely.
The second half comps are a lot more challenging.
Okay.
Denise you want to do that rather complicated question.
Yes.
So the sort of the tradeoffs involved in the new launches.
Yes.
I think the question you're asking Alexia is what's the potential for cannibalization as we introduce lower pricing tiers.
And I think it's really important for me to underscore something we've said in the past which is that we strongly believe that the cannibalization effect will be mitigated by the fact that the vast majority of our core customers prefer complete access to Times journalism.
So in our view that really does provide an effective fence around the trade-down.
And we believe that we're going to be able to manage it accordingly.
Research Division</strong> And when do you think we'll get from the outside a sort of sense of how it's initially going? Will it take a couple of quarters or will you get a sense right away? We're going to be looking at the results from day 1.
So as we did with the initial foray into the digital subscription business we built the model to be flexible so that we can make changes as we see them happening.
It's hard for me to say.
I think it's going to take a couple of quarters for the business to settle in and for it to be at a stable level.
But you'll -- we'll be sharing the results once we announce on a quarterly call so you'll get a read on that fairly quickly.
Research Division</strong> And then just last question and I'm sure you guys probably get tired of being asked this but the cash continues to build.
I guess can you update us on your priorities to use of cash? Sorry.
Could you just repeat the question again Alexia? Research Division</strong> With the cash continuing to build every quarter post the sale being where it is could you update us on use of cash? Well I mean we don't have any change really to the -- to our current view on this.
We restored a dividend in the course of 2013.
And we continue to take a pretty prudent view of the balance sheet because of the relative scale of our pension and other obligations in relation to the size of the current Times Company and because of continued volatility in revenue particularly in advertising revenue.
So we have no real change on that.
But as you say the balance sheet is in a sense a process which began a couple of years ago strengthening the balance sheet has taken in the quarter and through 2013 we've taken it to another stage.
Do you want to add anything Jim? I think I would add is we're coming off in about 12 months of maturity of somewhere in the neighborhood of $200 million $225 million of bonds that come due.
And obviously the plan right now is to take some of that cash off the balance sheet and retire that debt.
Consistent with Mark said we do think we need to rightsize the debt to the business as it exists today post the divestitures that we've gone through the last couple of years.
But I will say just -- I noted in my remarks too the pension issue is clearly gotten significantly better and we feel pretty good about where that's gone.
But there's still -- we still have to watch carefully the business and the trends and we'll continue to be flexible.
Your next question comes from the line of William Bird with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Could you discuss just the timing on the new tiered product launches? And just overall how do you expect digital subscribers to trend in the first quarter? Denise...
Sure I'll take this.
Let me start with the second question first.
So as Jim said just in terms of revenue we expect overall circulation revenue increase in the low-single digits.
As for subscribers we expect largely to be in line with last year's trends excluding the benefits of the holiday.
And where we see the growth coming from in the first quarter is what I'll call our optimization efforts which are retention efforts and marketing optimization around improving the performance on marketing by establishing more rigorous and diligent testing of marketing creatives and pretty much every way we market our customers.
International will grow in Q1 and contribute to that and then the corporate and education sector will also be a contributor.
So that's the outlook for Q1.
In terms of timing what we've said is second half is when we begin to launch the first of our new products.
The first one to launch will be NYT Now.
Quarter 2 is what we said...
Sorry second quarter right not second half.
My apologies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately just on advertising I guess a question for Mark and Meredith.
Have you made any tweaks to your print ad sales strategy? Is there anything you're doing differently in the second half that might explain the print declines narrowing as well? I'll go first but then I'll hand to Meredith.
We just determined the first things that we -- in the first half of 2013 we reorganized the company set up advertising as an independent division.
I hired Meredith to come in as Unit Head of Advertising.
We saw a lot of tenures in role and structure and so we've got a very strong in-house team but we also saw some new talent coming in to the company and I think a lot of energy flowing into advertising.
I think that's -- as well as obviously broader facts to the U.S.
economy and trends to the industry rate.
I think that's part of what was going on.
But Meredith do you want to pick up things for me? Yes I would agree with all that.
I would add to it that we have for a long time and continue to approach the market on an integrated basis.
And so if you look at the categories where we did well in print in the fourth quarter like corporate or home furnishing books entertainment.
These are all categories that generally are bolstering in the print and digital.
So I think we're doing well on an integrated basis and selling integrated programs.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
I have a few questions please.
I'll start with the -- on the digital subscription side what percent of your digital subs say in the fourth quarter are from international please? So Craig it's Denise.
So our international subscriber base grew in line with expectations in the fourth quarter.
As for the overall percentage it did grow but we're not going to get in the habit of updating this number in the future as our overall mix is going to be changing substantially with the launch of all of our new products.
Okay.
Let me ask another question.
For your mobile advertising what percentage of mobile advertising right now is digital? You have $53 million of digital ad revenue in the quarter.
What percent roughly is for mobile? It's still a modest percentage.
And we think about it in terms of 2 front categories smartphone versus tablet.
And what we saw was strong gains in smartphone and we had some difficult comps in tablets.
So it's really 2 different stories there and we do expect it to continue to grow.
And then Jim these investment costs you're talking about for the new year here can you just explain to us if you would please just how they layer in for 2014 by quarter and how that would compare to a year ago? Well -- so this year we really didn't spend much in the growth initiatives and the first quarter it was quite modest.
And quite frankly it's quite modest in the second quarter.
We began to -- those costs began to increase in the third quarter.
And so I would say for the full year somewhere in the $20 million range is what we -- is what the initiatives we spent on.
And let's say at least half of that maybe a little bit more was in the fourth quarter.
So we're certainly hitting our stride and so we'll begin to build on that number even as we go into next year.
So we'll see year-over-year growth pretty substantial in the first quarter because we're comping against nothing.
So the spending will exceed obviously the spending we saw in the fourth quarter and then build beyond that.
So the guidance I gave was for increased cost relative to that $20 million.
So that would suggest somewhere around $40 million to $45 million building throughout the year for total -- for the total expenses.
Then my last question if I could on the print side for advertising in the quarter.
Could you just give us a little bit of breakdown in terms of like maybe your top 3 or 4 ad categories most particularly I want to hear about luxury good please and also hit the 3 to 4 categories are the worst year-over-year? Sure.
We saw strength in corporate as I said before driven largely by the energy companies.
We saw strength in home furnishings which I think can be attributed to just broader economic improvement.
We saw strength in books which has to do with revamping of our book section as well as great titles being introduced in the fourth quarter the [indiscernible] and then strength in live entertainment.
As it relates to luxury specifically there again I think it's sort of a tale of categories within the broader luxury category.
So broadly in the fourth quarter luxury was down.
We saw strong results from American fashion and strong results as I said on home which we consider luxury less strong results in fashion jewelry and international there has to do with some in the international case money spent earlier in the year.
So just a different pacing for international fashion and we had some operational issues in fashion jewelry we expect to improve.
Your next question comes from the line of Kannan Venkateshwar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
The first is on the cost side.
You guys have done an excellent job over the last few years cutting down costs and it looks like there's still a lot more room.
So that's one lever that you guys are able to use a lot.
And the second part is of course the revenue mix shift which is potentially in 2015 with video and some of the new initiatives also starting to contribute.
So when we think about the end state for the business I mean what is the kind of margin profile that we should be looking at? That's one part.
And the second part is if you can just detail out some of the cost segments where there is still more room for you to go that would be great.
Where there's room to go we continue to look at kind of the non-digital part of the business.
Digital we're clearly in the investment mode and I gave the number out where we're going to see that spending on the growth initiatives growing by $25 million to $30 million.
That's in addition to the core business is growing.
Because our core business we expect to continue to grow.
So that side of the business growing.
On the non-digital side it's shrinking.
It's shrinking in G&amp;A functions.
It's shrinking our -- in the print area.
We expect those to continue.
So that's the way this thing will develop.
I will say that I tried to give some visibility into the full year cost next year.
We've got some headwinds relative to the growth initiatives relative to the pension costs which will create some real headwinds next year on the cost side of the business.
But again there's lot -- there's revenue coming from a big chunk of that too.
But the revenue will come following some of that cost build.
That's where we see kind of the cost development.
We do think there's opportunity.
But you can't go through that significant cost reduction that we've gone through over a number of years and not think it's -- it doesn't get materially harder.
But harder doesn't mean there's not more there which is -- I think we've developed some expertise in that area and we'll just have to continue to be good at it.
And it just reflects on margin.
I'm not going to give you kind of -- to how to model out a single number for this.
But to make an obvious point the -- some of the secular pressures for example on print advertising have the effect of removing very high-margin revenue.
And manifestly to defend margin cost-cutting becomes an important tool as well as investment in new revenue streams.
And obviously where everyone can one's trying to develop a new revenue streams which are themselves high margin.
But as you know print advertising has got a margin of around 90% and that's tough to match with new revenue streams.
So I think -- although as Jim says cost cutting becomes progressively harder with each turn of the wheel it's going to be an important tool or weapon in our armory alongside the other tasks which is developing new products and services to drive fresh revenue.
Research Division</strong> So one additional question on the video side of the business.
I mean out of all the initiatives that you've outlined in the past it looks like potentially from a revenue perspective and correct me if I'm wrong video might actually be one of the biggest contributors going forward.
So I wanted to understand when you're looking at that particular market a lot of the others out there like AOL and so on obviously have a revenue stream already associated with it.
And then you're talking to advertisers today.
Compared to your print advertising segment has that conversation changed? Because your print advertising tends typically to be driven by events like new product launches and so on because of which we see some volatility.
But the profile in video I'm assuming maybe slightly different.
So some visibility on that would be great.
I'll take a first crack at that.
Video is obviously a growth area of advertising for us.
It was in the fourth quarter.
We expect it to be again in the coming quarter.
But I do think that what we're seeing in video is that it's still being primarily used for brand advertising and I think that's some of what you're asking about print.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think I would say at the moment -- I mean we are at a fairly early stage in the development of video for our digital assets.
Consumers of nytimes.com and our apps are still in the process of getting used to the idea of expecting and using video.
We're seeing very strong year-on-year percentage increases in revenue but from at the moment at a relatively low base.
So I think we've got a long build on video but I'm pretty encouraged with the progress we've made so far.
Your next question comes from line of Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Jim not to beat the dead horse here but on the investment spending it seems like you didn't spend -- I mean you were very specific on the third quarter conference call about the impact in the fourth quarter.
And it seems like you didn't spend everything you thought you would in the fourth quarter.
So it's -- is it fair -- is that fair to say and is that going to spill into the first half of 2014? And then the shares outstanding was up a lot.
Is that the warrants because of the stock price? And is there a further dilution potential if -- at higher levels of the stock price? I'll take that one first.
The answer is when the stock price goes up its dilutive impact on common stock equivalents including warrants goes up.
So you're right that the increase in the share count is driven by not just the warrants but that's a big number but also stock options that are in the money.
So all those things drive share price up.
So we're not in control of that.
We're happy when the share price goes up and the stock price goes up.
So that's the answer there.
You're right we didn't spend quite what we thought we would in the fourth quarter but I don't want overstate that issue.
Probably a couple of million bucks we thought we'd spend that we didn't maybe a couple of million.
So it's all kind of embedded in that number.
Quite frankly had we spent all the money we thought we'd spend the year-over-year comps that I gave you the $25 million to $30 million would be lower on a year-over-year basis.
But we're still on track.
We still -- ultimately we still feel comfortable with the margins we set out to achieve.
We've just spent less kind of building to get to that point but we're still on track to launch on time.
And we still think this will still have the same margin potential as we set out to achieve.
Research Division</strong> And again I'm getting repetitive here but just to clarify.
If you do spend everything you expect to spend in 2014 the spending will be at a run rate of $40 million to $45 million.
Is that correct? Again we spent about $20 million in '13 and we expect that number to grow between $25 million and $30 million.
So that would suggest $45 million to $50 million total all-in spending on those initiatives through the end of -- right.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> On pricing any idea on the circulation cover price? Has that stayed the same? Because it's -- I see it in New York.
Is the other New York price up on the cover? We largely increased home delivery prices by on average somewhere -- the 5% in early January.
And as usual we feel pretty good about the decision we made.
We think we'll have at least the -- or not if not better intended effect.
So our -- the guidance we had in the first quarter kind of embeds -- probably largely seen as kind of a stable print circulation line largely with...
LLC Research Division</strong> Is that price increase both in New York and out of New York? It's just one pricing? Yes.
It's home delivery across-the-board.
LLC Research Division</strong> Anything with the digital monthly price? Is that still -- are you going to add features? Are you going to make these features in the package deal or is each one thing going to have a sort of incremental price? So for the lower-tier products they will carry a lower price than our lowest offer which is $15 every 4 weeks.
Core subscribers...
LLC Research Division</strong> So $15 huh? Yes $15 every 4 weeks for the least expensive digital package currently.
Those core subscribers will get the new products as part of their package again another way to preserve trade-down.
And just to remind everybody we also have a premium tier launching which will be more expensive than the most expensive package which is $35 every 4 weeks.
So we're really trying to exploit the entire demand curve with a variety of different prices and products for our customers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Roughly how many people are paying $15 and how many people are not? We don't disclose that Ed.
As you can imagine as we've said earlier if you do the ARPU calculation you could figure it out on your own.
I mean more people tend to pay for the lower-priced offerings than the higher ones.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
What was your ad rate strategy for 2014? You raised -- I might have missed this -- raised ad rates? No.
No change.
No change.
LLC Research Division</strong> You did not -- okay.
Regarding the advertising trend you talked about fashion.
Was fashion overall down in the fourth quarter year-over-year? Overall it was probably close to flat if you mix different categories.
We break it into 3 different categories.
But overall it's probably close to flat.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then the trend in -- was it February January whatever it is that's...
In general we're optimistic about luxury.
LLC Research Division</strong> What did you do on the classified categories? Any pricing there? Any trend? No no.
Classified by the way is a pretty small part of business only represents about 10% of our print business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Lastly on the balance sheet you've got all this cash.
No no.
Somebody asked the same question so I guess let's skip it.
Okay.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to our presenter Andrea Passalacqua.
Thank you for joining us this morning and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Thanks everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jay and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The New York Times Company's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded today Thursday April 24 2014.
Thank you.
Ms.
Andrea Passalacqua Director of Investor Relations you may begin.
Thank you and welcome to The New York Times Company's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Denise Warren Executive Vice President Digital Products and Services; and Meredith Kopit Levien Executive Vice President of Advertising.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that management will make forward-looking statements during the course of this call and our actual results could differ materially.
Some of the risks and uncertainties that could impact our business are included in our 2013 10-K.
I should also mention that our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our website at investors.nytco.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Andrea and good morning everyone.
So 2014 has got off to a good start with solid revenue performance across-the-board in the first quarter.
Both Print and Digital Advertising grew year-on-year in the quarter the first time we've seen that for a number of years.
Print grew nearly 4% while Digital Advertising was up 2%.
We believe we're making meaningful progress on some fundamentals in advertising including performance and innovation as witnessed by the very successful launch of our native advertising solution Paid Products -- Paid Posts I'm sorry.
However the strong numbers for Q1 do not mean that we're declaring victory just yet on the advertising front.
As Jim will discuss in a moment we still expect significant variability from month-to-month.
This April for instance is proving materially tougher than January February or March.
And although the positive momentum of recent quarters is still in evidence we'll also face tougher comps as we get further into the year.
On the consumers side we added 39 000 net digital subscribers in the first quarter.
That brings the total number to approximately 799 000 digital-only subscribers an increase of 18% year-over-year.
Overall revenues ended up nearly 3% versus last year's quarter building on the revenue progression we saw in the second half of 2013.
The company's operating profit for Q1 2014 was $22 million.
That compares to $28 million for the same period of 2013 with the reduction being driven principally by investments in our growth initiatives as well as by some recent spending in the advertising department as we undergo a restructuring there.
We believe that these focused investments are critical to long-term growth and value creation even as we continue to look for ways to reduce core costs wherever we can.
During the quarter we continue to execute our strategy to leverage our content and strengthen our revenue profile including the rollout in expanded digital product offering aimed at better serving our broad mix of readers.
So earlier this month we initiated the launch of our new pay product strategy with the introduction of NYT Now and Times Premier.
As we've discussed in previous calls NYT Now is a new mobile app curated by New York Times editors and available exclusively on the iPhone for now which targets on-the-go consumers at a lower price point than our original digital subscription packages.
And our subscription also gives users unlimited access to top news stories on the web.
Times Premier is a suite of exclusive content and features aimed at existing print and digital subscribers who just can't get enough of The Times.
As for pricing NYT Now currently costs $8 every 4 weeks while Times Premier is priced at $45 every 4 weeks or $10 extra for home delivery subscribers.
Now it's too early to quantify how these new products are performing but they've been positively received by the industry and we're seeing indications that NYT Now in particular is reaching people who have never subscribed to The Times before many of whom are significantly younger than our loyal core subscriber base.
We're also encouraged by initial consumer interest in the new Premier package.
We do however expect these initiatives to take time to ramp up.
Since particularly in the case of Now they must reach beyond the established user base that we were able to tap into when we initially launched the core digital subscriptions 3 years ago.
We're now hard at work marketing the new products via a variety of channels.
And we'll also be launching further digital products this year beginning with NYT Opinion in June followed by Cooking in the fall.
And we have a variety of other new products and projects in the works as well.
Two days ago for instance we launched the Upshot which is edited by former Washington Bureau Chief and Pulitzer Prize winner David Leonhardt.
The Upshot is our new politics and policy venture which uses data and analytics to help readers navigate the news.
It's a standalone section of nytimes.com and will also appear both on mobile and in print.
I've already mentioned 1 of our new Digital Advertising products Paid Posts the native advertising product which we launched on the Web in January.
That is now being followed by the introduction of Mobile Paid Post as part of the launch of NYT Now.
The plan is that NYT Now will rollout exclusively on these in-stream native units.
We expect native advertising to deliver a meaningful revenue in 2014 and to grow thereafter.
It and other product innovations are part of our effort to return Digital Advertising revenue to sustainable growth.
On the international front the International New York Times will soon begin accepting payments in local currencies for digital subscriptions.
The gradual rollout of this capability will boost our international marketing effort in our pursuit of new non-U.S.
digital subscribers.
All of this though should be seen in the context of a continued commitment to supporting and investing in the highest quality journalism.
Last year The New York Times -- last week The New York Times won 2 Pulitzer Prizes sweeping the photography awards.
Tyler Hicks won in the Breaking News Photography category for his pictures of the aftermath of a terrorist attack on the Nairobi Shopping Mall and Josh Haner won in Feature Photography for his photos of the rehabilitation of a Boston Marathon bombing victim.
So in conclusion we still have much to prove in 2014 but we've come into the year with a strong foundation.
We believe we're making the right investments in those areas of our business where we can leverage our content and brand to expand our revenue streams.
I told you that we see variability and tough year-over-year comparisons in the coming months for advertising but we're also encouraged by the tangible progress we've made on that front.
We're encouraged too by the growth in Q1 in our digital subscriber numbers and by the buzz that our new products have generated.
But for now over to Jim Follo.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark noted we began 2014 on a positive note with a quarter of solid revenue gains and a good start in our effort to scale our audience of paying digital readers.
Our first quarter revenue performance reflects steady growth on the circulation side of the business combined with strong result in the advertising side leading to our third consecutive quarter of overall revenue growth excluding the impact of the additional week on Q4 2013.
As expected our costs rose in the quarter as our continued diligence in reducing our core costs was more than offset by investments we were making in our growth initiatives as well as by higher retirements costs.
The growth initiative costs will rise further throughout the remainder of the year as we now must factor in marketing expenses around these new products.
Now that NYT Now and Times Premier have launched we've begun generating revenues for these initiatives but as Mark noted it will take some time to scale those revenues.
Operating profit before depreciation amortization severance and nonoperating retirement costs and a special item of a newly introduced metric that we are calling operating profit which I will address more later decreased 1% to $57 million in the quarter.
The decline was driven mainly by a $13 million increase in operating expenses compared with the first quarter of 2013 most of which was attributable to our growth initiative spending.
We reported GAAP operating profit of $22 million in the quarter.
Circulation revenues rose 2% in the first quarter with our digital subscription revenue stream responsible for the bulk of that increase.
We saw an 18% growth on the company's digital subscription base and also benefited from the 2014 home delivery price increases.
In the first quarter digital-only subscription revenues were approximately $40 million an increase of about 14% from the same quarter in 2013.
Advertising maintained this momentum in print and digital swinging to positive growth on both platforms and leading to an aggregate advertising growth of more than 3%.
Print Advertising revenues increased nearly 4% and Digital Advertising was up 2%.
Advertising revenues do continue to exhibit month-to-month volatility in short-term buying decisions demonstrated by growth of 4% in January a decline of 1% in February and then back to growth of 6% in March.
Digital Advertising saw particular strength in January and Print was notably strong in March.
National advertising saw positive overall growth in the first quarter and drove the strong revenue trends in both print and digital advertising.
Retail advertising also grew across print and digital in the first quarter while total class by advertising declined on both platforms.
Rounding out our results operating expenses before depreciation amortization severance and nonoperating retirement costs or adjusted operating costs increased 3%.
Costs rose 4% on a GAAP basis and we reported diluted earnings per share of $0.02.
Diluted earnings per share excluding severance nonoperating retirement costs and special items or adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.07 in the first quarter compared to $0.08 in the 2013 quarter.
The company sustained its expense management efforts in the first quarter as we found ways to lower core costs even as investments associated with our strategic initiatives accelerated.
Cost rose were mainly due to higher compensation and benefit expenses associated with our growth initiatives and advertising spending as well as due to retirement costs partially offset by printing and distribution efficiencies.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Our liquidity position remains solid in the first quarter.
We ended with $973 million in cash and marketable securities.
Uses of cash in the quarter included the payment of performance-based year-end compensation.
In addition we used $26 million to repay certain loans against the cash value of life insurance policies.
The repayment of these loans is expected to reduce net interest expense by $1.5 million annually.
Looking to next year it is our current intention to repay with existing cash balances our 5% senior notes in March 2015 at maturity.
At quarter-end our total cash position exceeded total debt and capital lease obligations by approximately $288 million.
In February we offered about 200 former employees in certain unfunded supplementary retirement plans the option for a onetime lump sum payment.
The amount of the settlement distributions connected with the offer and the associated noncash settlement charge in the second quarter will depend upon the number of participants who elect the offer and the associated pension benefit of those electing participants.
This offer will not impact our qualified underfunded pension status as the surplans are not qualified and therefore do not need to be funded.
The company will benefit going forward from this offer through lower retirement expenses and a reduction in our overall pension obligations.
As I mentioned on our Q4 call we expect that retirement costs in 2014 will continue to experience year-to-year volatility.
In 2014 we expect the retirement cost will increase $37 million or by about $19 million due principally to lower expected return on plant assets resulting from a shift in asset mix to bonds from equity higher interest cost the impact of the sales of England Media Group on retired medical costs and higher multiemployer pension withdrawal costs.
For the first time this quarter and moving forward we are providing a non-GAAP presentation of adjusted operating costs and adjusted operating profit in our earnings release and in each case excluding nonoperating retirement costs in an effort to provide a clearer picture of our operating performance.
Our adjusted calculations remove financing and amortization costs related to historical pension retired medical and multiemployer pension liabilities.
Service cost for pension and retired medical benefits will continue to be included but other pension components including interest expected return on assets and amortization of actuarial gains and losses which are not related to the operations of our business will be excluded.
We refer to these costs as nonoperating retirement costs.
We expect that nonoperating retirement costs will approximate $8 million per quarter through the remainder of 2014.
These adjusted measures will provide as a supplement to our GAAP metrics.
We have included a reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to GAAP offer -- to GAAP operating profit and adjusted operating costs to GAAP operating costs in our release.
We believe this view will make it easy to understand our employee benefit plans affect our financial position and operating performance allowing for better long term view of the business.
Moving to our outlook.
Second quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase in the low-single digits as we expect to benefit from all our digital subscription initiatives although revenue contributions for our new products in the initial launch period will be muted by introductory offers.
The most recent home-delivery price increase will also have an impact.
Advertising revenues in the second quarter remain subject to month-to-month volatility and are currently expected to be down in the mid-single digits.
April got off to a challenging start and we do not expect to benefit from the same momentum we saw in the recent quarter particularly on the print side in part due to more challenging year-over-year comparisons.
Second quarter operating costs and adjusted operating costs are expected to increase in the low- to mid-single digits as investments around the company's strategic growth initiatives accelerate including costs related to initially market -- initial marketing efforts for our new digital products.
We expect growth initiative cost to increase by approximately $25 million to $30 million on a year-over-year basis in 2014 bringing us to a total of between $45 million and $50 million in spending on these initiatives for the full year.
And with that we'll be happy to open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On the digital sub growth you continue to have in my view very good growth again this quarter.
Is there -- is anything you can say about how we should think about the digital sub growth going forward maybe in Q2 in the back half of the year given how it might be impacted by these changes in the new initiatives? And then I have a follow-up question.
Alexi it's Denise.
I think at this point we're only 3 weeks in to the launch of 2 of our products.
And I think it's pretty challenging for us to determine what the growth pattern is going to be.
So -- I mean I know you're looking for a lot more visibility here but I think it's just best for us to refrain from giving you any guidance at this stage.
I think certainly next quarter we'll obviously be sharing a lot more on this subject.
Research Division</strong> And then I mean -- I'm assuming -- I'm not asking you to share this with us.
Can I sort of ask you theoretically? I'm assuming you guys have a benchmark internally in terms of how many people that -- or subscribers of newyorktimes.com that may dumb down to kind of the New York Times Now.
Would it be fair to say that you guys internally sort of have a number that you kind of look to to assume the sort of amount to be expected to move down and that you watch that kind of carefully and if it becomes sort of a lot bigger than that number you sort of have anticipated you can adjust the program is that a fair way of looking at it? It's Mark did you say dumb down the first time? Research Division</strong> Yes.
That was a bad use of words I apologize.
If they were doing that they'll be moving from one great package to another.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's better.
You're more eloquent than I am on this front.
Obviously one of the things that obviously we're following very closely is -- and we'll be following closely is how people move between the different packages.
I mean the point -- one of the points of having a portfolio is you'd like to move people up.
I mean Times Premier is an example of trying to move people up a portfolio.
We'll keep a very close eye on movement both ways.
And it's certainly -- our modeling has always recognized that there are some movement downwards likely.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then the last question is on the advertising.
I know you got it for a bit more cautious outlook in the second quarter.
The comps are little bit more difficult in Q2 than they were in Q1 but it looks like March was a strong month.
And I guess I'm trying to read into is your more cautious commentary on advertising just because of the comps? Or is it also because you're seeing sort of some change in spending patterns that are making a bit more conservative? I think it's just still the -- this is Meredith.
I think it's just still a market with a lot of volatility month-to-month and that's why the visibility is limited.
It's hard to string a lot of information together and call it a pattern yet.
I would say it's hard to believe that something radically has changed in the market between March and April.
I think that's just the world we're in.
We're constantly facing some pretty significant volatility.
Comps do play some part in it but that's only part of the story.
I think it's just a very volatile market and I think it's likely to continue to be like that for a while.
Research Division</strong> Does Easter usually have an impact? I can't remember.
In the past I think Easter has had a more significant impact than it had this year.
Look Easter for us -- Easter would normally affect more retail and classified and those are 2 very small categories for us minimal.
Soft to slight impact on...
Yes.
So we're in a different position from some of our competitors.
I think Gannett and McClatchy reported very recently where retail is very significant and therefore the move of these out of Q1 I think both said had an impact on their -- it's different for us.
Your next question comes from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
LLC</strong> I have a few questions.
I'll start with 2 housekeeping questions if I could.
Your print daily and Sunday circulation volume in a quarter what was that percent change year-over-year please? Craig it was down 6.5% on the daily and 2.5% on Sunday.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on the cost side for newsprint please what was the average price percent change year-over-year and also in consumption? The total raw material cost was down about $2 million a little bit more skewed towards volume than to price.
So I would split that $2 million kind of 60-40 with volume having more of an impact.
We don't tend to quote our own price per ton but I would say generally on a year-over-year basis if you look at kind of rizzy I think the rizzy numbers were down about $10 a ton year-over-year or something like 2%.
LLC</strong> You think roughly your average price on 2%? Okay.
No.
I was quoting rizzy.
I'm not quoting our own but there was a small price benefit in the quarter but it was more volume-driven than price.
LLC</strong> Maybe I missed this but do the monthly ad revenue percent change year-over-year? What was that for the first 3 months of the year? I'm curious how April is tracking relative to what happened in March.
I did in my remarks give the month-to-month volatility.
As I said just a few minutes ago March was up 6%.
I believe -- just give me one second.
January is up 4% and January is down 1% or something like that.
Sorry January was up 4% February was down 1% and March was up 6%.
That's right.
And that's kind of combined...
Yes.
And we're not -- we're in the middle of April.
We haven't even done anything for April.
LLC</strong> But you did say that April is off to a tough start.
Yes we did.
Yes.
And look it's embedded in our overall guidance.
I will say that April is a big month for us.
It's a 5-week month.
And it doesn't actually close until first week in May.
Yes.
So we still have some time to go before we close the books on that.
LLC</strong> Do you guys think that you're being -- your guidance originally for the first quarter for ad revenue turned out to be conservative.
Is there any conservativeness in your minds for what your guidance now is down mid-single digits for the second quarter? Well look here's what I would say.
March was up 6%.
When we were giving guidance it was either late January or early February I don't recall.
We didn't have a ton of visibility into March.
And so that guidance was based upon what we saw in January so...
Yes.
And we were looking for the month of February where we were looking at a decline which ends up being a decline of 1%.
And so as -- and again as I said April is a pretty big month for us and we have some visibility there.
That's what's embedded in our guidance for the first -- for the second quarter.
And our guidance is based on trying to -- looking at a mid-case in terms of probability not a low case.
But as Jim said already even in quarters the Q1 2014 and some of the quarters late quarters in 2013 where we've seen the across the quarter we've seen rather positive trends in advertising.
That's still been in the context of significant month-to-month volatility.
LLC</strong> My last question or comment please just forgive the tone on this has to do with the retirement cost and how you're now presenting adjusted EPS adjusted cost excluding retirement cost.
I'm just curious I mean just given the last 20-plus years your company has always included the retirement costs and all that stuff.
All of a sudden now you're asking investors -- you're presenting to take out the retirement cost.
What has changed in your minds to do that? And I also ask that in the context of your severance costs.
As you guys know better than I do in the last 20-plus quarters every quarter you guys have booked there are severance charges in there people can take it out if they want or not.
I'm just curious the adjusted EPS number now -- you want people to take out the retirement costs now.
What's the big change? Why are you doing that now when you haven't for the last 10-plus years? Well a couple of things.
First of all we're simply presenting it as additional information and investors and analysts can do with it what they like and we're not suggesting to leave it in or out.
You can make that call yourself.
I will say though as the business has gotten smaller and the volatility in the plans has gotten quite significant and we've been -- for example we've been -- we've taken a different approach to investing within our plan where we're moving much more of our assets away from equities into fixed-income.
It has a fairly dramatic impact on the quarterly results.
But I think the key issue here is the business gotten smaller the plans don't get smaller.
While they're frozen they don't go away.
When you freeze them they stay the same.
And I will point out just as an example every quarter in this quarter where -- what's flowing through pension expense is about $7.7 million of amortization of losses that occurred several years ago and the accounting rules require you to smooth that into the current period.
And we think as the base of your EBITDA has gotten smaller these things tend to have an outsized impact and we don't think actually really relate to the quarter.
So I mean that -- again we provided a supplemental information.
Investors and analysts will use that as they choose and we're not -- that's a call you'll have to make.
LLC</strong> My only concern obviously I'm sorry is just in the second sentence of your press release it talks of the $0.07 number which is the adjusted number which excludes the retirement cost correct? And that's the number that most people are going to pick up and hone in on and everything.
And I like the fact that -- I agree with you 100%.
I like the fact that you break out all this retirement costs at the last table in the press release.
I appreciate that.
It's just that number there it's just very interesting that I've noticed more and more companies recently recover or sort of take out the so-called bad stuff.
Even you could make an argument that...
Oh by the way that number could very well go positive as well at a point too.
I mean I can -- you can go with this pretty far.
I mean how much should the asset performance in the pension plan which is not the company but the plan impact reported results in the quarter? People can debate that.
We think it has the potential to mask and distort underlying trends.
And those trends could go positive or negative for us.
It's just in this quarter pension expense was higher.
Next year we could get a different conversation.
And it's worth saying that we're not excluding all retirement costs.
We're distinguishing between retirement costs which we think are part of the operating business and nonoperating retirement.
That's right.
There are -- by the way yes retirement costs which are higher embedded in the kind of the GAAP number that is not isolated.
Those costs are up as well.
Those costs are -- we expect to be up $4 million or $5 million [indiscernible].
Sorry an important clarification is that we're not excluding all retirement costs.
We've chosen to distinguish between those retirement costs which we think you can completely fairly associate with the operating business and those which are financial cost which we think it's sensible to treat in this way.
But with complete disclosure so if any investor or any analyst want to consider it on a different -- on a GAAP basis they can do that as Well.
Your next question comes from Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Denise the 39 000 increase in digital subs in Q1 I mean that seems like a pretty big number particularly because you had telegraphed these new products coming in April.
So one would have thought there might have been a slowdown in sort of the traditional tiers in anticipation of the new tiers.
So I guess the question is what drove the strong growth? And was there any particular incentives in the quarter to drive it? Or was it better than you thought or in line? Yes.
I'd say there are 3 things that drove the performance.
One is we did experiment with a number of different promotional offers and had good experience with those.
Two is that we saw a really good growth from what I'll just call our emerging segments international corporate and education in particular.
And then finally as we've talked about in prior quarters we've really started to hit our stride with what I call our optimization efforts be it retention of new customers or our just doubling down on testing and learning around how to optimize our marketing messaging and offers.
So I think all of those things really contributed to the growth of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up...
And just to be clear we're going to go for it on core as well.
I mean we've got new products out there but it doesn't mean that we're going to stop being aggressive on the core.
We still think that there's opportunity there as well so I think the issue is balancing the portfolio and getting the right message to the right customers at the right time and that's really the opportunity we have in front of us as we roll up a new product suite.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just as a sort of ripple effect of this and not withstanding your efforts in native advertising as the digital sub universe grows does it become a stronger overall sub platform to drive overall Digital Advertising throughout the network? I mean are the 2 kind of -- do the 2 kind of go hand-in-hand? Or is it not that direct a correlation? I mean I'll let Meredith jump in here but I guess in my experience whenever you have a product that's well-received by a market advertisers are willing to pay to reach that audience.
And I think the fact that we have a highly engaged very affluent audience across platforms and we know about these people we have data on the because they are subscribers puts us in a very differentiated position.
I agree entirely and a lot of our new ad product development will be around new digital mobile consumer product development.
I mean NYT Now is a great example.
Cartier sponsored the launch of NYT Now.
They were excited to get in front of this new product with this new audience so I think there is opportunity for us.
Your next question comes from Kannan Venkateshwar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on the new product front.
International product has now been around for some time in the new branded version and so on.
So I just wanted to understand how the underlying trends there look.
And you mentioned that there are some strength there but if you could just quantify what that looks like that would be great.
And the second question...
Kannan we said in our last earnings call that we're not going to break out International just because our mix is going to change so dramatically with the launch of new products.
But we did see growth in the quarter and there's a couple of things that we actually have coming up that we're very excited about.
One is what we're calling a Market Domination program where we go in and actually blitz a market and make sure that consumers really understand what the New York Times is and we'll evaluative the results of that and determine whether or not that's scalable to other markets.
That's rolling out very shortly.
As well as Mark mentioned in his comments we've got the local currency rolling out in a couple of months so we're excited about that and know that that will absolutely help conversion.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay so on the local currency front if you could clarify -- I mean from a pricing perspective does this compare in U.S.
dollar terms to what you're charging in the U.S.
or...
It will but we will also experiment with differential pricing into new markets.
But the first step is right now we're billing everything in U.S.
dollars and we really need to be billing in local currency.
So the first step is to do that and then we will start to experiment with differential prices in differential markets.
And just to clarify when Denise says we'll be launching that in a couple of months she means something between a couple of mid-single digit month probably 2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one question which might sound a little bit repetitive is on the capital returns.
Now in the past you've said Jim that you're looking at the volatility in the ad market and then of course the pension on the funding situation was a lot different in the past and so on and therefore those are the variables that you wanted some stability in before you guys took a call on it.
And now some of those trends seem a lot more stable.
So I wanted to get some updated thoughts from you on how you look at capital returns going forward.
Under -- look under close watch look I agree.
We've certainly made some progress.
We certainly feel good about the business.
I think we've pointed to a number of things including a higher level of leverage that we think is appropriate given the divestitures we've gone through.
I suggested in my remarks that we'll be taking some of that cash and applying it towards a near -- a maturity that will be -- or about inside a year.
So the deleveraging is still one of our top priorities and look we'll continue to evaluate.
We have just nothing more to share other than what we've said.
We feel fairly good where we're at in our transitioning of this business and flexibility that provides us and we and the board keep it under a very close watch.
Yes.
If I can just add to that.
I mean we feel we are making progress.
I've mentioned that in my remarks.
We also think we're still in the middle of a large scale transformation of a business towards digital and towards new sources of growth for the business.
We don't think that we've yet achieved everything we need to achieve.
And I'm not ashamed in the slightest that we're continuing to take a relatively conservative view of the balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up question on that Jim.
On the debt side of it I think in the past you have mentioned that the goal is not to be debt-free but is there some kind of a leverage number that you have in your mind at which you think the capital structure looks more optimal? It is in my mind.
Look I get that...
If you could see him Kannan he looks like a man who's pretty determined if you could see in his mind and not to put in his mouth.
Look I think the flexibility right now is what we feel most comfortable with.
And we prefer just given a host of things that are happening in this business to retain some flexibility and not -- we're just not prepared just at this moment to make that commitment.
And if I can say we demonstrated last autumn with the return of the dividend that we don't have a -- we actually do not have an aversion to the idea of returning capital to shareholders.
And this is one part of the way we think strategically about the business at the moment a pretty conservative perspective on the balance sheet but keeping it under review.
Your next question comes from William Bird with FBR.
Research Division</strong> A question for Denise.
Denise do you think the 39 000 in digital sub additions for the legacy product is sustainable in Q2? Then I have a follow-up.
Yes.
Let me just say this look we're not going to -- as we said we're not going to give guidance on Q2 because there's just a lot of stuff happening in the quarter.
One thing I will say is that Q2 is always seasonally our lowest quarter.
So I think you should factor that -- for the core product I think you should factor that into the thinking.
And as well as I mentioned there were -- there was a lot of promotional testing going on in Q1.
Some of that will sustain itself but some of it is onetime efforts that won't repeat.
So those two things will have an impact as well.
Obviously the new products will have an impact on a lot of other things which is why we're not giving guidance on the numbers in the quarter.
Well we have given our revenue guidance.
So that's kind of whatever our use of that is kind of embedded in that number we've given on circ revenue.
Research Division</strong> And a question for Jim.
Just to clarify is your down mid-single digit ad guidance consistent with the April trend? I would say it embeds the April trend and it's consistent with what visibility we do have beyond April.
I will say April is challenging; May less so.
I think it's a blend of a number of different factors.
And we look at that on a regular basis and that's our best view at this moment.
Research Division</strong> I might have missed it but on the strategic growth initiative cost how much are still ahead of us? Well so here's the way it's going to happen is big -- year-over-year cost growth virtually all our -- I'd say 80% of our cost increase in the first quarter was related to growth initiatives because we had almost no spending last year in the first quarter related to those.
We will see a fairly big bump in spending in the second quarter because we'll be marketing for the first time.
So we'll see some pretty big growth year-over-year and so we gave some guidance around that.
Once you get in the back half of the year that should moderate because you're beginning to comp against spending that took place last year.
Although it will be higher it will be quite a bit more muted.
So I would say kind of on a year-over-year growth basis second quarter should be the highest on a year-over-year basis and then it will retreat a little bit on a year-over-year basis in the third and go down pretty dramatically in the fourth.
But net-net year-over-year change somewhere at $25 million or $30 million.
There are no additional questions at this time.
I would like to hand the call back to the presenters for any closing remarks.
Yes.
Thank you for joining us this morning and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The New York Times Company's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this call is being recorded today Tuesday July 29 at 10 o’clock AM Eastern Time.
I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today’s call Andrea Passalacqua Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Passalacqua.
Thank you and welcome to The New York Times Company’s second-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Thompson president and chief executive officer; Jim Follo executive vice president and chief financial officer; Denise Warren executive vice president digital products and services; and Meredith Kopit Levien executive vice president of advertising.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that management will make forward-looking statements during the course of this call and our actual results could differ materially.
Some of the risks and uncertainties that could impact our business are included in our 2013 10-K.
I should also mention that our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our website at investors.nytco.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Andrea and good morning everyone.
The second quarter was a very busy one for the Company and there’s plenty to talk about in the results.
On the consumer side of the business we launched the first of our new digital products and they’ve helped us continue to grow our pool of digital-only subscribers.
On the advertising side we continued to make progress on digital advertising with a second consecutive quarter of growth and real excitement around Paid Posts our native advertising product and video.
By contrast and in common we believe with the rest of the industry we saw some loss of momentum in print advertising in the second quarter after a very good start to the year.
We continued to keep a good grip of core costs even though investments in our latest round of products and services meant that profits for the quarter were down year-over-year.
We believe however that investment spending is essential to secure long-term sustainable growth for the Company.
Let me begin with the digital subscription story.
In terms of numbers at the end of the second quarter our digital subscriber count was 831 000 an increase of approximately 32 000 during the quarter.
That is some 9 000 or 39% more net new subscribers than we added in the same quarter last year with the new products – including NYT Now NYT Opinion and Times Premier – representing the majority of the growth in the quarter.
We’ve been pleased by the reaction of both consumers and the industry to the new products.
NYT Now – our new iPhone app curated by New York Times editors that targets on-the-go consumers at a lower price point than our original digital subscription packages – has been particularly well-received.
NYT Now which has received real promotional support from Apple– including being named one of the best new apps early in the quarter – is reaching a younger demographic than our core digital packages.
Demand and early statistics for retention of Times Premier our highest-tier subscription package have also been encouraging.
The rollout of this new suite of paid products is quite different from the launch three years ago of our original pay gate on the website where we had a huge base of heavily engaged users from day one.
Our new products in particular the NYT Now and Opinion apps must market to and reach brand new audiences stand out on their own and compete in a crowded marketplace.
This effort will take some time and we’ll need to build and flex some new marketing muscles.
We’ve already learned plenty from our experience so far with the new product launches.
While the NYT Now app is a clear and attractive consumer offering we’ve been much less successful in presenting a clear offer to non-subscribers for lower-priced access to The Times on the web and our existing mobile platforms.
So while we continue to have confidence in Now as a new mobile expression of Times journalism for a new audience we need to do more work to refine and effectively market a lower-priced offering across our core platforms.
We’ll also assess and adjust the other products as necessary as our knowledge of real-world usage grows – and we’ll of course build those learnings into any subsequent new products including our Cooking app.
Denise and her team will be launching that in the fall and it will initially be available for free to build up as large and engaged an audience as possible before we begin to charge.
Within the total 32 000 net new digital subscribers added during the second quarter the number of new subscribers to the core digital bundles was lower than we’ve seen and lower than we should be satisfied with.
There were some one-off factors including a large number of individually sold education subscriptions in the first quarter that because of the college year did not continue at the same rate in Q2.
Cannibalization by the new products was also a factor though direct cannibalization has been less than we had projected.
A more significant problem we believe is that we underestimated the challenge of presenting the new wider range of choices to our users and left some consumers confused as a result – obviously we are working hard to pivot and correct that.
In addition and despite the fact that the overall digital reach of The Times remains substantial the ongoing secular shift in consumer usage from web to mobile and from home page to article-based consumption while not a new phenomenon was also a factor in the lower number of core net additions because it represents a shift to less effective channels to market to and convert potential subscribers.
We’re addressing this last issue in two ways.
First by committing to the implementation of our recent Innovation Report a study our newsroom leaders commissioned to address the rapidly changing digital landscape that highlighted these trends and set out some compelling recommendations on how to build and deepen the engagement of our digital audience.
We’ve already completed some pilots using new audience development tools and practices – for instance in our digital coverage of the World Cup – where we’ve seen immediate and very encouraging results.
We believe that we can maintain the excellence of our journalism but bring that journalism to a much wider audience by adopting state-of-art audience-building techniques both within and beyond our newsroom.
This will yield benefits on both the digital subscription and advertising sides of the business.
Our second response is an aggressive focus on improving subscription and advertising monetization on mobile devices especially smartphones.
The progress we’ve made on the presentation of our content in both the Now and Opinion apps must be matched across all of the mobile offerings with improved pathways to subscription and more advertising units supported by better ad tech.
Let me turn then to advertising as a whole.
As I said at the start we saw another good quarter of digital advertising growth with particularly encouraging growth in June.
We’re early in the process of rolling out Paid Posts our native advertising offering but are very pleased with client demand and the numbers we’re seeing for actual reader engagement.
Video too is on a good track.
This month we received a total of seven Emmy nominations and it’s helping us to grow that advertising revenue stream as well.
Video advertising is on course to nearly double in 2014 although of course it still represents a relatively modest portion of our total digital advertising revenue.
Print advertising had a somewhat tougher time declining nearly 7% year-on-year in the quarter.
As we’ve noted previously print will continue to face quite challenging year-on-year comparisons in Q3 and Q4 though against that I am really encouraged by the progress Meredith and her team are making in developing and innovating within the print as well as digital advertising businesses.
We’ve invested in the sales operation and new print and digital products and expect to see the benefit over the balance of the year tempered of course by those tougher comparisons.
In conclusion we believe that our strategy of increasing our digital revenues by broadening and deepening the engagement of our audience and developing new digital consumer and advertising offerings is the right path to growth for the company.
In recent months we’ve shown we have what it takes – outstanding content great design and tech – to deliver innovations both in consumer products and in digital advertising that really capture the imagination of customers.
But we know we have more to do in fundamental audience development in fine-tuning and marketing our portfolio and in seizing the opportunities of mobile.
And because we recognize that sustainable long-term growth for our digital business will take some time to secure we will also continue to pay very close attention to our expenses and to the returns on our new investments.
I will look forward to updating you along the way but for now I’ll turn it over to Jim Follo for a more detailed financial review Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
The second quarter marked an important milestone in our effort to scale our audience of paying digital users as some of our new products hit the market and began to ramp.
While it will take time for the revenues associated with these new products to reach substantial levels we are already seeing incremental effects.
But despite this progress second-quarter revenues ended slightly down overall mainly reflecting weakness in print advertising which more than offset ongoing growth in the digital area of our business.
Expenses were up again in the quarter as planned as our intense focus on reducing core costs was offset by the investments we are making in our strategic initiatives as well as by higher retirement costs.
The strategic initiative expenses will continue to drive up costs in the second half of the year although we will be closely monitoring that spending as we evaluate the near-term revenue potential for the new products and where to best prioritize our investment spending.
Operating profit before depreciation amortization severance non-operating retirement costs and special items decreased to $56 million in the quarter from $71 million in the prior year.
The decline was driven mainly by an $18 million increase in operating expenses compared with the second quarter of 2013 most of which was attributable to our strategic initiative investments.
We reported GAAP operating profit of $16 million in the quarter compared to $46 million in the same period of 2013.
Circulation revenues increased 1% in the second quarter with our digital subscription revenue stream offsetting print declines.
We saw a 19% year-over-year growth in the company's digital subscriber total and also benefited from January's home delivery price increases although revenue from the new rates were outweighed by volume declines particularly on single copy sales.
In the second quarter digital-only subscription revenues were approximately $42 million an increase of about 14% from the same quarter in 2013.
As we’ve mentioned in the past the 831 000 digital-only subscriber total that Mark highlighted includes group subscriptions from corporate and education entities.
Those units saw a solid growth in the quarter and contributed substantially to the overall growth in our core packages although they do come in at lower rate of average revenue per user.
Advertising maintained this momentum on the digital platform in the quarter sustaining a positive growth at more than 3% but did not offset the more significant print decline of nearly 7%.
Advertising revenues continue to experience month-to-month volatility in short-term buying decisions demonstrated by declines of 7% in April 2% in May and 3% in June.
As Mark noted digital advertising saw a significant shrink in June.
Print national advertising drove the ad declines in the second quarter despite seeing growth on the digital side.
Retail advertising rose in retail and overall in the quarter while total classified advertising increased on both platforms.
Other revenues grew nearly 8% in the quarter driven by higher revenues from our online retail store conferences and other events and content licensing.
Rounding out our results operating expenses before depreciation amortization and severance and non-operating retirement costs increased 4%.
Costs rose 5% on a GAAP basis and we reported diluted earnings-per-share of $0.06.
Diluted earnings-per-share excluding severance non-operating retirement costs and special items was $0.07 in the quarter compared to $0.13 in the 2013 quarter.
The company sustained its expense management efforts in Q2 as we found ways to lower core costs while investments associated with our strategic initiatives accelerated.
Costs rose mainly due to higher compensation and benefits expense as well as increased marketing costs all associated with our strategic initiatives in addition to increased retirement costs and investment spending in our advertising department partially offset by efficiencies and customer care and print distribution.
For the remainder of 2014 we will continue to prioritize investing in the business but also intend to redress cost structure issues as we get a better sense of the revenue potential associated with our new digital products and other strategic initiatives.
We continue to closely manage our pension related obligations as well.
To that end in the first quarter we offered certain former employees who participate in certain non-qualified pension plans the opportunity to receive that pension benefit now as a lump sum payment.
We made related settlement payments of approximately $24 million in the second quarter from company cash reduced pension obligations by $32 million and record a settlement charge of approximate $9.5 million.
Our retirement costs will continue to be higher in the second half due primarily to lower expected return on pension assets which we are increasingly allocating to fixed income and higher retiree medical costs and multi-employer withdrawal expenses both triggered by the sales of New England Media Group.
We expect non-operating retirement costs in the third and fourth quarters of approximately $9 million each.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Our strong liquidity position remained largely unchanged in the second quarter.
Our cash and marketable securities balance was roughly constant at approximate 972 million and our total cash position exceeded total debt and capital lease obligations by approximately $286 million.
Moving on to our outlook.
Third quarter circulation revenues are expected to be flat as the benefit from our digital subscription initiatives and from the most recent home delivery price increase is likely to be offset by print weakness.
Although at this point in the quarter we have very low visibility into the month of September advertising revenues are currently expected to be down in the mid single digits driven by print declines partially resulting from more challenging year over year comparisons.
Digital is expected to make [ph] positive growth at similar levels through the first half of the year.
And third quarter operating costs and adjusted operating costs are expected to increase in the low to mid single digits as investments around the company strategic initiatives are now in full force.
And with that we’d be happy to open up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of William Bird with FBR Capital Markets.
Good morning.
You mentioned some disappointment in the number of core subs added.
I was wondering if you could just discuss how many core NYTimes.com subs were added.
Thank you.
Bill it’s Denise.
As you know we are managing the business as a portfolio and so at this point we’re going to refrain from providing details by product.
We think in light of our approach it really makes the most sense to continue to report a single paid digital subscriber metric as well as continue to report on the digital subscription revenue.
I will say just to reiterate a few of the comments that Mark made in his remarks that just in general as we said the growth in the portfolio came from the new products as well as came from -- in the core business several of our promotional sales or Memorial Day sale or July 4<sup>th</sup> sale.
In addition we did see growth as we have seen in prior quarters in our what I will call our B2B business our corporate and education seat and site license business.
Where the weakness was in the portfolio was as Mark had mentioned first of all we do typically in the second quarter see a seasonality in the B2C education copies as the school year winds down.
So that impacts the portfolio as well we saw lower starts due to the secular usage shift from web to mobile.
And as well we did see some minimal cannibalization of new core starts to the new product.
And just – to your point just I am sure you heard me say this but although we don't break the number down precisely we said the new products constituted the majority of the growth in Q2.
And just I was wondering if you could elaborate just on some of your general thoughts on just the pace of digital subscriber additions likely in Q3 and I guess some of the things you might be able to do to try to improve the pace of digital subscriber additions? Sure.
So the pace that we expect to see in Q3 is similar to what we see in Q2.
And in terms of sort of retooling our work we think we have sort of three things that we need to really work on and get right.
The first is we really need to get the right offer to the core audience on our web and core mobile properties.
Our initial offer which was access to top stories as part of the NYT Now offering didn't quite resonate the way that we had hoped.
And so we’re in the midst of testing a number of alternatives.
The second thing we have to get right is our ability to target.
We need more precision to determine which is the right customer for the right offer and this we’re honing through AB tests and our data science capabilities.
And then finally of course we need to continue to optimize all of these things within the broader portfolio.
I mean we clearly want to see acceleration but it’s worth saying that we're currently tracking in 2014 in the first two quarters higher than the net adds for the first half of 2013.
So we are seeing a higher number of adds so far this year than last year.
And just a final question on digital subs.
Could you talk about international some of the efforts you’re making there to try to improve the offering? So we do see growth in international subscription albeit at a lower rate than we have seen in prior quarters.
We really expect to see the performance here improved when we launched the in-currency billing later on this year.
That’s really the critical key initiative that we believe is going to accelerate growth in the international marketplace.
And that will be in the second half? That’s we’re shooting for October to begin the rollout.
Your next question comes from the line of John Janedis with Jefferies.
Thank you.
Maybe a follow-up to Bill’s question are you seeing any change in subscriber acquisition cost or churn and how does the churn of corporate and education subs compare to the rest of the subs I think you spoke to the education but maybe on corporate? I don’t really have specifics to -- and I don't want to mislead you and I would really like to get back to you on the specifics on the churn on the corporate.
My sense is that it churns at a much lower rate than individual subscribers but I would love to check that statistics again and get back to you.
And with some seasonality.
So I mean with a profile of – subscribing and un-subscribing – not in the corporate – I would say also that’s a relatively new program so the history we have around those programs on retention churn is somewhat limited.
And maybe just a related question just on the guidance for circulation for the quarter.
Does it imply still double-digit digital circ revenue growth or is the slowing across both the print and digital subs? Slightly lower on the digital and a little lower on the print as well but the fact that print is still 75% 80% of total sub revenue has a meaningful impact on that number.
But again the growth in the first – second quarter was 1.4 it doesn’t take whole in terms of dollars to – county to country kind of in the flat area.
Another question for you on the strategic investments have you now passed the peak increase in spend year-over-year and are you still on track then to hit that sort of prior number of the 30 million increase year-over-year? I’d say we are.
I think what you will see in the third quarter will be something similar to the second quarter and that’s embedded in our guidance.
We said low to mid single digits which you get into the fourth quarter fourth quarter last year was a pretty full quarter of spending.
So I would say expense growth moderating to disappearing essentially in the fourth quarter absent any other changes plus or minus – By Q4 when more or less at the run rate – Yeah essentially the run rate -- if you look at internal forecast we’re not expecting anything cost growth at all in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore Partners.
Three questions two on numbers.
Jim in terms of the breakdown in severance and pension adjustments to the costs in the quarter is it mostly an adjustment to SG&amp;A or is some of that taken out of production costs? That’s question one.
Question two it looks like to get to $0.07 on the adjusted operating profit you got to use a 50% tax rate; why is that so high? And then a broader question for Denise can you just speak more broadly to the challenges of marketing NYT Now to the Apple universe and what are the plans to expand it beyond that eventually? Let me start and then I will let Denise finish.
On the severance side I would not put it – it’s not I would say solely related to G&amp;A and it kind of gets spread I don’t want to spend – say much more than that.
But there is certainly say production element to it the G&amp;A element to it.
On the tax rate side tax rate tends to be -- as you know pretty volatile and because of the pretax income number and the size of it certain discrete items have more of an impact on the tax rate in anyone quarter.
We still hold that kind of incremental rate on every dollar earnings beyond -- every incremental dollar of earnings is still in the 42% range but in this quarter we have some distortion based upon some discrete items.
On marketing NYT Now we've actually been very pleased with what we've seen and the support that we've received from Apple.
They did name the app for instance one of the new apps in the months that we launched it.
So I think really the marketing challenges in the Apple ecosystem are creating awareness there is I think over a million apps in the app store.
And so making sure that your product is actually seen is part of the battle and so when you get that kind of support from Apple it really helps.
Clearly one of the things we are trying to do is get people to download the apps so really it’s about creating awareness inside the ecosystem first and foremost and then of course secondarily it’s about creating conversion.
In response to the question about potential other opportunities for expansion clearly we’re exploring the Android marketplace that would be the next most logical place for us to expand this particular offering.
It’s prudent – in a sense that with NYT Now we’ve got both the opportunity but also the challenges up in the audience.
The app seems to be reaching will tell you what the seems to be reaching the younger the previously been subscribers the good news about is that potentially opening up a new audience.
The tough thing to say is that we’re going to meet and are already beginning to explore different marketing tactics to try and reach that audience.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
A few questions I guess the first one is housekeeping question for your daily and Sunday print circulation volume what was that percent change year over year please? Week day was down 5.7 and Sunday was down 3.5.
And then I'm just little more clarity here on the cost this investment spending you guys are doing this year it sounds like that's in the run rate of your cost as you go into 2015later this year or is that true? Yes I would not expect meaningful growth in the initiative spending in ’15.
But what you've spent this year it gets ongoing expenditure you’re saying right? Largely I don’t think there is not much in the way of kind of one time nonrecurring and -- we have a lot of marketing but as we've seen with our original pay initiatives around digital mortgage ongoing marketing is an ongoing effort and we will continue.
And then can you talk a little bit further if you would please about why you think your print advertising performed worse in the second quarter versus the first putting aside the year-over-year comparison what’s July looking like please? Yeah happy to talk about that.
I think in general print overall in the market – there are secular forces that are leading it to decline and by contrast we saw a nice continued uptick in our digital business.
Category wise there were places where we saw what I’d call a wholesale shift there for example technology advertising was very weak in print but very strong in digital.
So we’re really starting to see some fundamental shift in the market.
The one thing I would add to that is I don’t think the market has dramatically shifted and we had a good first quarter less good second quarter.
So I don't think we feel there is a fundamental shift that’s just accelerated pace in the second quarter.
That being said there are certainly secular forces at work here.
It’s never precisely the same from quarter to quarter and sometimes the campaigns run sometimes they don’t.
So all the place together in ways that are often hard to predict.
And for July you’ve seen many differences here in July? I am sorry.
Are you seeing many differences in your print advertising here in July so far? I think we’re off to a relatively slow start in print in July but a lot of how the third quarter goes will be written in September and our outlook in September is pretty murky at this point.
Murky meaning we don’t see it rather than – Yeah not gloomy.
Well but I would add to that I’d say print is off to a bit of a slow start in July but the opposite the complete opposite were strong double-digit growth in digital we saw that sort of same performance in June as well.
I would say also July is a very slow month.
– And particularly small month in print.
So not a great indicator of how the quarter will go.
We will have to see how it plays out – as it was last year you will recall last year September was – the third quarter – September performed – Certainly in the 20 months or so I have been here I mean our experience is it’s very very hard to predict trend.
I mean last December we seem to be seeing a deceleration which was followed by Q1 where we actually saw print advertising growth year over year.
So I mean it’s – I have learned it’s a month game to try and predict too much.
And as both Meredith and Jim said a lot of Q3 will be determined in September.
Look I would say also we put a lot of additional resources and money behind the advertising department and Meredith’s organization I think that takes time to make its way and so you have to see how that plays out as well.
Sorry to ask this again but is there anything else specific you can point to about the differences in print advertising performed in the second quarter versus what you saw in the first quarter is there any else besides of normal volatility here? I would say that this is a relatively expected volatility versus something materially different that we’re concerned about.
Look we also had some – we had some things that really broke well in our favour in the first quarter.
We had live film entertainment and a strong Oscar season worked to our benefit there was another couple other categories.
In the first quarter we had a Super Bowl in our city.
So if you look at the categories and you actually see the difference from quarter to quarter it sort of tells you the story of categories in and out of print.
So an example might be in Q1 as you said it was a pretty strong Oscar season with quite a few contenders which were the kind of movies which kind of naturally fit with the New York Times audience.
The summer – something the industry has seen – it was quite a tough summer for the studios with lots of movies opening and closing quite quickly and therefore not attracting multiple opportunities for print advertising.
And also movies all the time which perhaps a less suited to The New Times audience so that’s one category we shifted very clearly from Q1 to Q2.
But all that overlays the fact that comps did get meaningfully more difficult in the second quarter first quarter last year we had negative 13 on print second quarter last year we had like negative 7 [ph].
So they played a factor but it’s not the only factor in what drives the results.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JP Morgan.
Just a couple of questions.
Again there is a – there is a lot of moving pieces right now obviously you are rolling out this new product and you are making some changes to them as you’re sort of seeing the impact good or bad.
I guess from the outside in the investment community what’s really a good time period that we should expect for you to get to kink out and sort of transition period to be over is it a couple of quarters is it a year? I guess how should we see it? Well I think I mean – because we are doing stuff here where we are kind of on our own I mean we’re doing things which nobody tried in our industry.
It’d kind of be difficult to be precise about how long it’s going to take to optimize.
But certainly I would say that over the coming quarters when you said two to four over the coming quarters we hope progressively optimize the portfolio learn some of the marketing lessons we’re going to do and to continue to grow digital subscription.
I mean I think everything that we’ve seen so far suggests that packaging the right way marketing the right way we can find -- continue to find new subscribers for the digital flavors of the New York Times but there is – several quarters I said there is some complexity in the offering we’re making in the public and we need to work to get that right.
Denise you want to – And packaging the right way which you had is – as I hurdle for the most recent quarter is that something that may be a quicker fix? Alexia I am sorry can you take another stab of the question when you say packaging the right way meaning – I think you highlighted a bunch of headwinds that hurt the digital sub number in the quarter it was confusing I think to the consumers in terms of how you presented the different products I would assume that’s probably an easier thing to fix right? – it might not be a drag – Yeah you might think it is but we’ve got to really get – but in response to the question all three things right we’ve got to get the right offer we’ve got to make sure we’re targeting the right customer and then we need to be continually optimizing.
So as Mark pointed out it is quite complex.
But we do have some experiments that we are spinning up right now to hone in on getting the offers right and we will be really hacking the way that over over the next couple of weeks and months.
And as we said the central challenge we think we got to – a great product is NYT Now and actually we need to plan out its future as a mobile app based product.
The puzzle the marketing puzzle that we are engaged in solving is exactly what a lower priced offering should consist of on the web and our core mobile platforms have exactly how do we configure that and how do we market it and that’s what we are working on right now.
And just the last follow up question is the deceleration of sub growth in the third quarter versus what you have seen in the first half.
Is that purely this noise on the digital front or is there some we can expect in print as well? Little bit of weakening in print I wouldn’t oversay it but again when print circulation is 75% of the number a small changes in the percentage growth of decline will have outsized effect on the overall number.
So a little of both.
As Jim said again we are looking quite hard over what we can do to support print circulation and we don’t forget that print is a really important part of our business and it’s not on the core [indiscernible] print product and services is looking hard at marketing solutions to strengthen the current quarter of print circulation.
Your next question comes from the line of Kannan Venkateshwar with Barclays Capital.
Just a couple of questions.
The first is on the digital side when we look at the total adjustable market now with all the newer products that you have is the market bigger than what you started off with the original plan when you had digital? Or is it roughly the same market in your view? And secondly when we look at price increases historically when you did not have a digital product versus now when you have multiple digital products has the elasticity changed on the print side to the price increases that you are seeing right now? I think the way I think about this Kannan is – from a period where the company was thinking about how it converted an existing group of engaged users digital users to subscribers I think we have got greater ambitions about reaching out and finding new audiences and add new addressable markets and the international expansion is an example of that.
Obviously that brings in its wake as I said in relation to NYT Now new marketing challenges where you can rely somewhat less on the – as well the existing consumption of existing users and have to reach out – new in some cases new marketing channels to find and engage new consumers and that relates very much to the whole topic of audience engagement and the ways in which you can use tools and practices also engagement to strengthen usage and therefore drive subscription.
I think the basic answer to the question is we do believe that there is a bigger potential addressable market than perhaps we thought some years ago.
Yeah I mean I would think that especially with NYT Now reaching a much younger audience than we’ve ever reached before with any of our products we’re very very encouraged that we might be able to make inroads just in particular in that segment of the marketplace and that wasn’t what we had necessarily contemplated at the outset.
So just to give one specific detail as to why I think I would point to NYT Now.
And on the elasticity point I mean it’s worth saying that I think take up and retention of premier suggests something about elasticity.
Now it’s complicated because premier is digital enhancements which are also available to print subscribers but premier suggests that across the portfolio both print and digital there is some pricing elasticity.
Having said that we have primarily been focused on to grow the total number of digital subscribers.
Though obviously we think about price and price increases all the time but our biggest focus at the moment has been trying to grow the number of subscribers.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now turn the call back over to Ms.
Passalacqua.
Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The New York Times Company Q4 and Full-Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this call is being recorded today Tuesday February 3 2015 at 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today’s call Ms.
Andrea Passalacqua Director of Investor Relations of The New York Times.
Please go ahead Ms.
Passalacqua.
Thank you and welcome to The New York Times Company’s fourth quarter and full-year 2014 earnings conference call.
On the call today we have Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Meredith Kopit Levien Executive Vice President of Advertising.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that management will make forward-looking statements during the course of this call and our actual results could differ materially.
Some of the risks and uncertainties that could impact our business are included in our 2013 10-K.
In addition our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliation’s to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our website at investors.nytco.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Andrea and good morning everyone.
Before I turn to the detail of Q4 I would like to offer a few observations about 2014 as a whole.
This was an encouraging year for The New York Times Company we made enough progress with our digital revenues to more than offset the secular pressures on the print side of our business and to deliver modest overall revenue growth especially pleasing with the progress on digital advertising.
When I arrived to the company just over two years ago digital advertising was in decline.
In 2014 we reversed that with digital ad growth in all four quarters which became double-digit growth in the second half with a 19% year-over-year gain in the fourth quarter.
That great digital story meant that despite continued secular headwinds in print advertising total advertising revenue for the year was within a percentage point of flat.
The decline was 0.7% compared to 2013.
This was the most encouraging year-over-year trend for our advertising business since 2005.
The digital growth came from the launch of Paid Posts our native advertising solution as well as strong growth in mobile and video.
The digital advertising market continues to evolve rapidly with great new opportunity is alongside pressure on some existing parts of the business.
That means that we do not currently expect 2015 to deliver quarterly year-on-year gains as high as some of those we enjoyed in 2014 but we have a strong team in place we are actively developing further new ad solutions including in mobile and around sponsorship.
And we believe there is immense further potential in Paid Posts both in terms of media revenue and the growing additional revenue we are driving from T Brand Studio the creative services team who produced much of the branded content for the peers under the Paid Posts name.
For all these reasons we are confident we can maintain significant growth in digital advertising and we also saw progress in the digital consumer revenue business.
Overall we continue to build our digital subscriber total in 2014 and finish the year with 910 000 paid digital subscribers an increase of 150 000 from the previous year beating our tally of new additions in 2013 by 25%.
In particular we saw growth during the year among international subscribers.
Late in 2014 we introduced the ability to new customers to subscribe in their own currency to boost international growth further.
We are now well on track to exceed the 1 million digital subscriber milestone in 2015.
But we don’t believe we’ve yet fully exploited the full potential of our digital subscription business.
There were many achievements in 2014.
We showed that we have the journalistic design and product talent and capability to reach and satisfy new customers with great Times journalism packaged in new ways.
NYT now has demonstrated an ability to engage a young audience which is new to the Times and both it and our cooking products remained amongst the best apps of the year by Apple.
But we’ve also learned some lessons about the need to spend sufficient time building the audience for new product before full monetization.
This is how we are approaching our cooking product and we are seeing very healthy audience growth as a result.
Also about the marketing challenge involved in presenting a bigger portfolio of products clearly to consumers something that was certainly an issue for us with the launch of NYT now.
We will continue to develop our thinking about the portfolio over the early part of 2015 and will involve our marketing and product technology EVPs that we are currently recruiting as soon as they arrive and we will have more to say about this later in the year.
As with our digital advertising business though we believe there is a real opportunity to scale the business more quickly than we are at the moment.
We also believe the both digital revenue streams will benefit from the focus on fundamental audience development that was inspired by last year’s innovation report and which is now fully engaging our news room and product teams.
Targeted investment in print was also part of the story of 2014 and will be again in 2015.
You will see some of the fruits of those efforts in the first half of this year beginning with the relaunch of The New York Times magazine later this month followed by the launch of the new men's fashion and lifestyle section in April.
This will be our first new print section in 10 years and when we feel we will be well-positioned to thrive given our success to-date within luxury advertising category.
We have a very strong presence in this category and advertisers are eager to tap into our brand given our visibility and influence in the market.
Recognizing the core strength of our brand in 2014 we deepened our newsroom coverage on a variety of topics such as would be April launch of the Upshot which provides news analysis data visualizations commentary and historical context from the staff led by Pulitzer Prizes winner David Leonhardt.
After less than the year this scientist already won critical claim.
In addition I’ll first draw sight in daily newsletter which provides one-stop coverage in an analysis in U.S.
politics and elections is off to a great start.
New venture such as these solidify the engagement of times readers drive new traffic and create coveted new destinations for our advertisers.
Let me turn now to the financial results to Q4 2014.
The Company’s operating profit was $62.4 million that compares to $69 million for the same period in 2013 and the decrease was principally the result of severance expense booked in the quarter.
Adjusted operating costs were roughly flat in the quarter.
For full-year 2014 the Company had an operating profit of $92 million compared to $156 million in 2013 with the decline primarily resulting from investment spending related to our strategic initiatives as well as severance expense.
Adjusted operating profit in 2014 was $256 million compared to $277 million in 2013.
Total revenues grew slightly for the quarter which was the result of growth in both our digital subscriber base and digital advertising revenue.
Overall advertising revenues ended down 2% in the fourth quarter which was better than we had anticipated.
Print advertising did not see the late quarter rally that is enjoyed in the third quarter and with the fourth quarter as a whole print decreased 9% year-over-year a decline largely offset by that 19% growth in digital advertising.
Print advertising is expected to face continuing headwinds in 2015.
Circulation revenue performed in line with what we expected during the quarter as the combination of 2014 increase in home-delivery prices and continued growth in the number of digital subscribers more than offset a decline in print copy sold.
The overall increase in the circulation revenues was 1.4%.
In the quarter we added 35 000 net new digital subscribers which is a 20% increase from the fourth quarter in 2013.
The bulk of the growth again came from our core packages including from international consumers as well as from corporate and education group subscriptions.
The relative improvement in advertising revenue trends circulation revenue growth and cost management initiatives drove our performance in the quarter.
Despite an increase in operating cost in the quarter and year we will ensure expense control to remain tight in 2015.
We need to reduce legacy cost wherever we can to supplement our diversified efforts on the revenue side.
Let me turn now to Jim Follo for more detailed financial review.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark highlighted we closed 2014 on a solid note with notable digital revenue growth on both the advertising and consumer sides of the business.
We’re beginning to see the benefits of our strategic initiatives insurance forming our organization although there was much to accomplish in the coming year.
Despite print decline to both our advertising and circulation revenue streams in the fourth quarter the momentum in our digital business led to revenues that were up slightly overall.
Expenses rose in the fourth quarter driven by severance expense related to workforce reductions announced in the quarter as well as retirement costs.
Costs related to our strategic initiatives are beginning to flatten out according to plan as we are now cycling a full-year of that spending.
Our focus on reducing core costs remains a top priority.
The cost reduction initiatives we recently implemented across the company should allow us to maintain stable or slightly lower costs in 2015 relative to 2014 levels.
Adjusted operating profit was roughly flat in the quarter at a $104 million.
We reported GAAP operating profit of approximately $62 million impacted by the severance expense and retirement cost I just referenced compared with operating profit of $69 million in the same period of 2013.
Growth in digital advertising and digital subscription revenues helped total revenues finish up slightly for both the quarter and the full-year.
Circulation revenues increased 1% in the fourth quarter with our digital subscription revenue stream more than offsetting print declines.
We benefited from 2014’s home-delivery price increases although higher revenue from the new rates was outweighed by overall volume declines.
In the fourth quarter digital only subscription revenue were approximately $44 million an increase of 14% from the same quarter in 2013.
We did put through a New York Times home-delivery price increase of approximately 5% at the start of 2015.
Newstand and digital prices were not affected.
Advertising accelerated its momentum on the digital platform in the quarter finishing up 19% which despite a print loss of 9% limited the advertising decline in the quarter to 2%.
Digital advertising continues to see a boost from Paid Posts as well as mobile and video.
Moving on overall advertising revenue in the quarter continue to exhibit month-to-month volatility and reflect short-term buying decisions demonstrated by an October decline of 5% flat performance in November and a 1% decline in December.
Print advertising revenue was down across the board while digital was consistently strong.
During the fourth quarter 2014 the company began reclassifying advertising revenue by a slightly different set of categories.
In today's earnings release you will see that Display now includes a combination of the prior national and retail categories.
Classified now includes only agate listings and the new other advertising category include such items as pre-prints and production fees generated from our brand new content studio.
The release also provides a Q4 and full-year growth rates based upon similar prior year comparisons.
We’ve decided to make these changes as the lines between National and retail continues to blur.
Other revenues grew 10% in the quarter driven by higher revenues from our online store and content licensing.
The expense management efforts remain an intense focus in Q4 as we moved ahead with plans to lower core costs while maintaining critical investment spending.
Thoroughly in the fourth quarter we announced a cost cutting plan that involve headcount reductions across the company.
We believe that we achieved these reductions without impacting our world-class journalism.
This plan reflects our commitment to strengthening our operating efficiencies while safeguarding our long-term profitability.
We remain committed to investing in certain areas of growth.
Costs are up 3% on a GAAP basis in the quarter and reported diluted earnings per share of $0.22 costs rose due to severance expense related to headcount reductions as well as higher retirement costs partially offset by distribution efficiencies.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.26 in the fourth quarter compared to $0.29 in the prior year.
Our non-operating retirement costs increased by nearly $4 million in the quarter and retirement costs are expected to flatten out in 2015.
We expect non-operating retirement costs in the first quarter to be approximately $10 million versus $9 million in Q1 2014 due to higher multi-employer pension withdrawal costs.
In the quarter we also completed the rental of an additional floor of our headquarters building which makes up a total of 31 000 square feet.
We will begin recording the associated rental income in the first quarter and this will bring us to a total of seven leased floors.
During the fourth quarter we recognized an impairment charge of $9.2 million for our joint venture Madison Paper Industries.
The company’s proportionate share of the after-tax loss was $4.7 million after adjusting for the allocation of a loss to the non controlling interest.
Moving to the balance sheet our strong liquidity position remain intact in the fourth quarter our cash and marketable securities balance was $981 million and our total cash position exceeded total debt and capital lease obligations by approximately $331 million.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased approximately 20 million principal amount of our 5% senior notes due in March.
If you likely saw at the beginning of the first quarter that is part of a warrant exercise we announce the intention to make share repurchases for approximately $101 million equal to the proceeds we received from the warrant transaction.
We believe a repurchase program is the best use of cash in this instance since it will largely neutralize the transactions impact on our diluted share counts.
The impact of the warrant exercise was to increase our diluted share count by approximately $8 million based upon current stock price.
I do want to emphasize that this is a one-off program that should not be viewed as a change in our capital allocation process.
For accounting purposes on a GAAP basis based upon preliminary results the under funded status of our qualified pensions plans at December 20 2014 was approximately $264 million that compares to $80 million at the end of 2013.
The funded status of the company’s qualified plans was negatively impacted in 2014 by interest rates and as we’ve previously disclosed the adoption of new mortality tables issued by the society of actuaries partially offset by strong asset performance.
Also in the fourth quarter the company offer participants for various define benefit plans the option to immediately received lump some payments or to immediately begin receiving a reduced monthly annuity.
We will begin making settlement distributions of approximately $98 million on an offer in the first quarter all of which will come from pension assets.
The purpose of this after was to reduce the overall size and inherent risk of our plans as well as the modestly improved our funded status.
We also expect to book a especial charge of approximately $40 million in Q1 as a result.
Moving to our outlook first quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase at a rate similar to the fourth quarter trend driven by the benefit from our digital subscription revenue stream and January’s home-delivery price increase despite continued challenges particularly for newsstand volume.
We expect the total number of net new digital subscriber additions in the first quarter to be in the mid-30 thousands.
Advertising revenues are currently expected to be down in the mid-single digits driven by print declines partially resulting from challenging year-over-year comparisons.
You will recall that amortizing revenues increased more than 3% in the first quarter of 2014 including growth and print advertising of nearly 4%.
Due to strength associated with a strong Oscar race in the New York area Super Bowl.
As Mark mentioned print will face ongoing headwinds and continued volatility in 2015.
Digital is expected to main positive growth in the low double-digits in the first quarter and other revenues are expected to increase in the mid single-digits.
And first quarter operating costs and adjusted operating costs are expected to be roughly flat as we have now cycled the start of our strategic initiative spending and we get the benefit of linked 2014 cost reduction initiatives.
And with that we would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Doug Arthur with ISI Evercore.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you.
Mark I think the last time you’ve guided on digital for the fourth quarter advertising you said somewhat tougher comp and somewhat of a de-sell from the growth rate the strong growth rate of the Q3 obviously that didn’t happen.
So you accelerated.
So I guess what cause that and I guess by turn as your Q1 guidance on digital therefore positively conservative.
And then a second question just I’m wondering if you can elaborate on the relaunch plans for sort of the desktop version of the low price digital sub package thanks.
Okay let me - Doug good morning.
Let me deal with the second one first and say that we are still working and are continuing to test options around the expression of the local cost offer in the kind of non-app environments desktop and also essentially mobile web as well.
I mean that’s part of a broader look at our digital portfolio with a focus both on that but also a focus on optimizing the way our products play out in mobile as well.
As I said we’ll come back to you later in the year with some fresh thinking about that.
On advertising I mean I’ll let Meredith answer the question but just to say we are - the way we go about our guidance is to genuinely aim for a mid-case projection for the quarter that’s what we did in Q4.
We outperformed that we saw some real success both in the Paid Posts and elsewhere in our digital offering and we did better.
Our guidance for Q1 2015 is absolutely a not to be artificially conservative for the mid-case projection as our guidance was in Q4 but Meredith do you want to add any color to that.
Yes I would agree with that and I would say we did see in Q4 we saw Paid Posts continue to grow we saw mobile and video continue to grow we also had the benefit of some very large enterprise deals where a lot of the revenue was particularly in Q4.
So I’m with Mark I stand by the guidance for Q1.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bird with FBR.
Your line in open.
Good morning I was wondering if you could talk a bit about the digital subscription game plan for the year ahead what are some of the things that you are looking to do to sustain your digital sub gains? Thank you.
Thanks Bill.
I mean you’ve heard us talking about them.
We have a plan which we’re rolling out to boost international subscriptions that in currency capability is part of that.
We’re also experimenting with other ways which we’re going to be doing some experiments with in language versions of the times to see whether we can exploit that.
We think there is considerable further development potential in both our corporate and educational businesses we are exploring that.
As I’ve said already we’re looking fundamentally optimizing the core digital portfolio of products and services and we think that although as I said I think we’ve shown and we showed in 2014 an ability to continue to grow this business.
We don’t yet think we’ve achieved its full potential.
And just a follow-up on the Paid Posts business where do you think you are kind of a in a progression of developing that business as your ad inventory at a fully distributed level where you feel that you are striking the right balance for the consumer.
Very good question.
I think we’re still early days in the business we’ve a lot of demand and we’re continuing to fulfill that demand we’ve staffed up in T Brand Studio which is where we produced a lot of the Paid Posts content and we’ll keep staffing up as that demand grows.
We are also going to see Paid Posts grow in mobile and in video that will be a major components of the mobile and video ad solution and we’re generally optimistic about it in one sense to your inventory question Paid Posts are self generative of inventory.
So they’re creating new inventory as they go.
It’s a really important point Meredith made that they’re additive to the existing digital advertising inventory.
We think there is immense further potential… Yes.
Immense further potential.
Absolutely.
Great thank you.
And just a follow-up for Jim just point of clarification.
Does your pension under funding necessitate a pension contribution this year? No it is not.
We don’t anticipate any sort of discretionary contributions actually that probably holds for several years now we’re well ahead of any required funding.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning thank you.
So few question my first one can you give us a sense please of the percent of our digital ad revenue I guess the fourth quarter that was Paid Posts mobile and video combined just give us a sense? I’ll say broadly we’re pleased with the trend so we said that mobile for the year is now slightly more than 10% of our digital ad revenue video is a growth business smaller number but had a similar growth trajectory and Paid Posts was inside of 10% of the overall business but has a very strong growth trajectory.
So we expect these to be three of the four five things that will keep driving digital growth in 2015.
Yes it’s fair to say on Paid Posts we expect to more at double well all capability in T brand studio to make Paid Posts.
Exactly.
And I’ll add to that we expect to the creative work to be a meaningful line of that business.
Yes so with Paid Posts is obviously there is a block of revenue which is associated with the media by and then in addition at those the revenue against the production fees we get for making the content in almost all the campaigns.
Right for selling the creative work.
And then also the cost front as we look out beyond the first quarter through remaining part of the year can you just maybe just help us give us some idea what to sort of think about this projection here for expenses for the second third and fourth quarter year-over-year please? Yes well as I said in my remarks we expect cost to be kind of flat to slightly down that’s kind of a net number we’ll be investing as we said in some of the areas that Meredith talk about Paid Posts is dollars we’ve put against that audience development efforts and growing our digital audience cost against that but we’ll be taking cost out of kind of what we consider the core business print will continue to see opportunity to reduce cost reduce print we think will be favorable for us next year on the price basis.
G&amp;A will come down but on the net-net basis we think flat to slightly down just probably good way to think about cost for the full-year.
And my last question please just the housekeeping issue for daily and Sunday print circulation volume what’s the present change there in the quarter year-over-year please? In the fourth quarter our daily circulation was down about 6.7% Sunday was down about 4.5%.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just two quick questions.
One thank you for giving the detail on the ad number by month in the fourth quarter.
I assume that was total advertising do you have those October November December just for print as well? You just give us a second we’ll pull back.
Yes.
And then my second question as far as I guess you’re looking at up is really just a broader question on we saw an impressive growth I think if you highlighted in the international digital sub growth in the quarter.
I guess anyway you can size how significant opportunity that could be either longer-term registered in 2015? Alexia I don’t have much to answer to what I said in previous calls I mean the around the third well traffic comes in your times from users outside the U.S.
the kind of the base case two years ago in terms of the percentage of international subscribers was around 10%.
So I think the one way of thinking about the opportunity is the delta between 10% and I feel like 33%.
I am not suggesting that you can necessarily close that gap completely.
But we’re very interested in – what we as you know now really since the middle of 2014 we’ve been very focused on audience development.
And I think one thing I want to say is that we are very focused on international audience development and figuring out what combination of better tools to developing audience and figuring out ways algorithmically.
But also with human editorial engagement we can make news report more relevant to users in different countries as a way of driving usage and not just overall reach our unique users but also engagement.
So that you begin to drive those subscriptions.
I think we have an answer on advertising.
The print number for October was – were down about 12.5% November was down 6% December was down 8%.
And any early readings of January or? Yes I think Jim already gave some guidance for Q1.
I’ll just say its one of our hardest comps for the year.
So we are… We have these one-off events last year.
Super Bowl city in our city a very strong Oscar race for the times and then some big corporate campaigns that aren’t repeating.
Okay.
All right thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of John Janedis with Jefferies LLC.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks good morning.
Just a couple of follow up first on digital.
To what extent have you been able to broaden your base of advertisers and what are you seeing on the pricing front in digital broadly and maybe Paid Post specifically now you have been selling them for a few quarters? Sure.
So on the first question I am happy to say I think we have a very broad base of advertising.
So we get advertising from a lot of different categories.
And we actually I think you will see in 2015 we will break into some new categories that we haven’t necessarily played in a meaningful way before.
So that will continue to improve.
On Paid Posts specifically I’m not sure if you are asking the same question but you will see in the coming months Paid Posts from new categories.
So we have some stuff in the works coming from categories that haven’t been out there yet.
But in Paid Posts generally one of the things that’s gone well we are probably 40 advertisers and I want to say 50 or 51 campaigns in and they come from many different sectors luxury financial services corporate automotive and so forth and that will continue to broaden that.
And I think you had a third question in there as well.
Just on the pricing environment broadly speaking.
Pricing so we are - in general we have not seen tremendous pressure on CPM and we remain confident that particularly – actually in both Print and Digital our product is sufficiently differentiated that we should be able to maintain that CPM.
Okay thanks Meredith.
And maybe Mark you referenced corporate and education packages has there been any change in promotions for the core digital subscription offering rather maybe 1Q of this year 4Q of last year relative to the prior year and as subs have increased has there been any change in churn? Well I mean there is a constantly kind of shifting set of promotional offers that we use.
Our tactics change quarter-by-quarter.
I think the ARPU number which you can derive from the numbers we give gives you a sense of that overall track of the business.
There was a slight decline in ARPU in 2014 as you would expect with the launch of lower priced offers and with success in corporate and educational sales but we remain very pleased with ARPU our ARPU remains higher than the sticker price as it were the main core digital subscription at somewhat over $15.
Yes I think on the churn side look the DPU get into marketing products you see slight declines kind of retention rates four months retention rates something we look at pretty carefully but its very modest.
And I would say it’s a consistent trend you’ve seen something in the model as the DPU get it kicks down just a little bit we are still at a very healthy pretty good four months retention rate we feel pretty good about it.
It’s fair to say we’ve done some experimentation in 2014 around pricing outside the U.S.
in terms of promotions.
Price sensitivity you would expect to and indeed it doesn’t – did appear to vary by territory so that’s been one feature of 2014.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Kannan Venkateshwar with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just a couple of questions.
The first is on Jim I think you made – one of the comments you made was it the price increase overall had a negative impact on revenue on the Print side.
Is there any way to get a sense of the transition between print and digital as you increase prices and what kind of an impact it has on contribution margins overall on the circulation side and the second question is in terms of frequent visitors I think when you had launched the digital plan you had given us some sense of how many of your unique visitors are frequent visitors and so on.
If you could just update us on that number that would be pretty useful and how the conversion rate on those frequent visitors incur? The first question – I’m not sure you have misread what I had said about price increase.
We put through a price increase fairly beyond home-delivery about 5% that’s consistent with the pricing course you put in place for many years now we're seeing kind of similar performance so net-net those price increase have allowed us to maintain essentially a kind of a flat print consumer revenue line this year was down a little bit but mainly because of single copy sale but we expect similar performance from the home delivery price increase it has meaningful – it doesn’t just allow you to kind of keep constant – at least constant maybe a little growth in home-delivery but you are also – there is a little bit of a benefit on copies produced but the loss from a price increase we still feel is quite manageable I think that’s a good tactic for us.
Well let me struggle to answer the second question I believe at the time that we launched the Digital subscription back in 2011 before my time we said something like but 10% to 15% of unique users were in “heavy users.” I mean what is definitely true about nytimes.com and are the digital assets is in terms of engagement time spent across the board even with as it were an average of unique users we do extremely well both in terms of time spent on individual articles and I believe also in terms of repeat business across the month.
And we think the one of the reason we are both a strong advertising platform and have shown the ability to move more engaged users toward subscription is because the levels of engagement.
I mean a large part of what were times do with audience development is to grow the breadth of the audience i.e.
to increase the number of unique users in the U.S.
and beyond but without reducing the levels of engagement we’ve seen and I think one of the things that you can expect to see us doing in 2015 is looking quite closely at each stage as it were the funnel in terms of how you encourage already fairly engaged users to become more engaged and get them to the point where the value to derive from consumption of our digital assets is such that they think it make sense to subscribe.
I don’t know if that helps still.
Could you give us some sense of the conversion rates on some of these visitors in terms of the frequent visitors that you’ve add in the past? We’ve not again we’ve not typically disclosed the final points of conversion.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
But its fair to say that there this no - I’m not aware any kind of as it were a decline in conversation rates at the point of gate as it were when we can get engaged users to the movement when there are to subscribe conversion rates remind very steady over the course of the model.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Did you talk about where the cost reductions have been concentrated was it in the sales force in a press room et cetera.
And secondly regarding the circulation trend is there been such a – that’s been fairly static I guess in terms of this conversion and is there a difference much of a difference between let’s say the New York of pricing and circulation versus the rest of the country.
The pricing the 5% price increase is pretty much across the board for all frequencies both kind of in market and out of market.
You asked a question about where kind of the cost reductions were they were broadly across the board.
I think it was well reported there was physicians coming out the News Room we’ve had a 100 gross although we’ve added a number of physicians as well on that area around audience development for example and the launch of some magazine have added some resources there as well.
Advertising has taken some physicians out of - we’ve invested elsewhere but its pretty – as usual it’s pretty broad-based but it’s pretty strategic we don’t take kind of a blunt instrument we try to do it in the best way possible.
And really an important thing to say is that we are very aware that have to be incredibly mindful of the quality of the journalism we offer our users and although we have to look at every single part of the cost structure.
We are anxious team and his colleagues in the newsroom and all of us are very anxious to make sure we are properly investing in Times journalism.
I think a year or so ago you started a program of special content sections I don’t know what you can call them has that been maintained and can you give us an update on how it has been received by the readers.
So I’m assuming you are asking about the PAID POST business are the Branded Content business.
And I would say that has been - it was definitely one of the big growth areas of 2014.
And we expect it to continue to be.
Is there a separate circulation price to people to sort of take advantage of that program is that sold separately? Well I mean that the Paid Post are available to everyone who comes to digital assets anyone who comes to nytimes.com and to the apps can look at Paid Post.
They are not part of the - they are behind the pay wall obviously advertising partners who wants to take advantage of the program have to pay us both to displayed that’s the media revenue and also most of them are paying us additional money to actually make the content which appears under that brand.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line Doug Arthur with ISI Evercore.
Your line is open.
Yes Jim just a clarification you reported $0.26 from continuing ops which takes out a lot of these charges that includes the impairment change at the Madison plant.
Excludes it we see that as a special non-recurring item the $0.26 is kind of a pro forma number that would exclude I’ll give you the component that it largely excludes it largely excludes that item impairment charge it largely excludes a fairly large tax benefit in the tax rate that we’ve gotten through a reversal of certain tax reserves it excludes severance and it also excludes non-operating retirement cost those are the exclusions to get to that number.
So what is the imputed normalized tax rate than excluding all these items? Well it’s always complicated we still say for dollar we earn basically a tax of somewhere around 41% 42% that tends to be quite lumpy but that’s the rate that we’ve largely guided to and we’ve done that for a while.
I think when you back out all these things for a whole host of reason you actually get to a number which is probably close to about 45% rate.
Okay all right thank you.
I would say on every incremental dollar its 42%.
Okay thanks.
End of Q&amp;A I will now turn the call back over to Ms.
Andrea Passalacqua for any closing comments.
Thank you for joining us and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Thank you everyone good bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the New York Times Company Q1 2015 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the floor over to Ms.
Andrea Passalacqua please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to The New York Times Company’s first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
On the call today we have Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Meredith Kopit Levien Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that management will make forward-looking statements during the course of this call and our actual results could differ materially.
Some of the risks and uncertainties that could impact our business are included in our 2014 10-K.
In addition our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our website at investors.nytco.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Andrea and good morning everyone.
The start of 2015 saw us continue to make real progress in our digital business with double-digit year-over-year growth in the first quarter in both digital subscriptions and digital advertising.
Print had a more mixed quarter with the headwinds in advertising we saw in the latter part of 2014 continuing through the quarter.
Successful cost management contributed to a 5 % increase in the Company’s adjusted operating profit and adjusted earnings per share of $0.11 compared to $0.07 in the prior year.
Let me begin with digital subscriptions.
We added 47 000 net digital subscribers in the quarter more than in any quarter in the past two years -- which is particularly pleasing given that our pay model has now reached its fourth anniversary.
That quarterly increase brings us to a total of 957 000 paid digital subscribers.
The strong digital consumer growth in the quarter was attributable to improved retention higher traffic to our digital assets and the seasonality of education subscriptions.
The higher traffic is evidence of the effect of the program to develop our audience we began to execute in the second half of 2014.
The early results of this program have been very encouraging.
U.S.
digital traffic for instance in the form of unduplicated unique users across all devices was up 22% year-over-year in the first quarter to an average of 59 million monthly users.
We’re convinced there is scope to increase our digital audience much further without diluting the exceptional levels of engagement which we attract.
The results should help boost both our digital subscription and digital advertising businesses.
So let me turn now to digital advertising where we also saw continued momentum in the quarter with year-on-year growth of just under 11%.
Mobile Paid Posts video and programmatic all contributed to that growth.
I also want to add a comment about ad viewability the industry wide effort currently under way to ensure that advertisers only pay for impressions that have actually been viewed by users.
We support viewability and in common with other publishers we are in the process of optimizing our website to meet the new standard.
While we see some reduction in overall ad impressions as we cycle through the change viewability plays to The Times’s fundamental strength in engagement.
Any short-term impact on revenue will depend on how the market responds and we’ll know more about that in a few months’ time but in the long run we expect viewability to help rather than hinder our digital advertising growth story.
Now let’s consider the print side of our business.
As I said at the start the print advertising headwinds we saw in the second half of 2014 continued into the quarter.
Overall print was down 11% year-over-year which when blended with the gains in digital advertising led to an overall advertising decline of 6%.
That 11% number includes steeper falls in advertising for our international newspaper as well as some foreign currency effects.
I should also note that print advertising in last year’s first quarter was up 4% due in part to the oneoff boost provided by the Super Bowl in New Jersey and also by a particularly strong Oscar race.
The year-over-year comparisons become less onerous as we go through the year.
There was a decline in print circulation revenue of 2.4% in the quarter as reduced volume more than offset the positive effect of our January price rise.
Nonetheless we are focusing our efforts on print circulation retention and believe there is much to be done to better retain our current subscribers.
The strong digital subscription story meant that overall circulation revenue grew in the quarter by just under 1%.
Since our last earnings call we have made two important leadership appointments.
Kinsey Wilson has added the role of EVP Product and Technology to his current duties heading up Digital in our newsroom.
Kinsey is now leading the work on the development of our digital portfolio.
Indeed we have already announced that next month we will be converting NYT Now into a free product.
We want to continue to use Now to reach younger audiences and to pioneer new ways of delivering compelling news on smartphone.
We’ll have more to say on the broader portfolio over the next few months.
Kinsey has already had a massive and entirely positive impact at The Times in his first few months and I’m delighted that he’s going to have this clear overview of all our digital operations.
Just a couple of weeks ago I also announced that Meredith Kopit Levien our EVP of advertising  would be taking on the expanded role of Chief Revenue Officer meaning that her responsibilities will now include leading the marketing function as well as advertising.
Meredith has had a dramatic impact on advertising gathering a great team around her backing innovation building new products and business lines.
And I’m convinced that she can bring similar flair and focus to the vital work of brand and consumer marketing at The Times.
I also believe that our new leadership team will allow us to move further and faster in developing this business.
And let me finish by noting that the journalism of The New York Times on which everything else depends continues to be recognized as amongst the very best in the world.
Last week The Times won no fewer than three Pulitzers more than any other news organization.
But now to give you more detail on the financial picture let me hand it over to Jim Follo.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark highlighted 2015 got off to a good start as we maintained our progress on both the digital advertising and digital subscription sides of our business.
There is of course still much to accomplish in 2015 though in the first quarter for instance the momentum across digital could not offset overall print declines leading to total revenues ending down.
Operating expenses decreased in the first quarter by nearly $16 million overall driven by print distribution efficiencies.
Our focus on reducing core costs remains a top priority but we do not expect future quarters to see the same level of expense declines as we saw in Q1.
Nonetheless cost reduction initiatives we recently implemented across the Company should allow us to maintain lower costs in 2015 relative to 2014 levels.
Adjusted operating profit rose 5% in the quarter to 59 million.
We reported GAAP operating loss of approximately 11 million driven by a $40 million pension settlement charge in this year’s first quarter as well as a $5 million multiemployer withdrawal charge compared with an operating profit of 22 million in the same period of 2014.
Circulation revenues increased approximately 1% with our digital subscription revenue stream more than offsetting print declines.
We benefited from January’s home-delivery price increases although higher revenue from the new rates was outweighed by overall volume declines.
In the first quarter digital-only subscription revenues were approximately $46 million an increase of 14% from the same quarter in 2014.
Advertising maintained its progress on the digital platform in the quarter finishing up 11% and mitigating the print loss of 11%.
Digital advertising continued to see a boost from mobile Paid Posts and video and programmatic but overall advertising revenues still declined about 6% in the quarter.
Advertising revenues continued to exhibit month-to-month volatility.
Combined print and digital advertising declined 10% in January which is when we saw the bulk of the Super Bowland Oscar-related strength in last year’s first quarter and 3% and 5% in February and March respectively.
Print advertising revenue was down during all three months while digital was consistently strong.
And lastly on the revenue side our other revenues grew 6% in the quarter driven by higher revenues from our conference business as well as from rental income.
Expense-management efforts remained front and center in Q1 as we continued to lower core costs while devoting resources to key investments.
Costs were down 4% on a GAAP basis in the quarter and we reported a diluted loss per share of $0.09 driven by the two pension charges.
Costs declined mainly due to print distribution efficiencies as well as declines in depreciation and amortization raw materials and outside printing expenses.
Adjusted diluting per share was $0.11 in the first quarter compared with $0.07 in the prior year.
Our non-operating retirement costs were flat in the quarter at 8.9 million.
Retirement costs are expected to generally flatten out in 2015.
We expect non-operating retirement costs in the second quarter to be approximately 9 million versus 8.3 million in Q2 of 2014 due to higher multiemployer pension withdrawal costs.
In Q4 of 2014 we completed the rental of an additional floor of our headquarters building which makes up approximately 31 000 square feet.
We began recording the associated rental income in the first quarter which partially drove the increase in other revenues in the quarter.
Moving on to the balance sheet our liquidity position was further bolstered in the first quarter.
Our cash and marketable securities balance was 848 million and our total cash position exceeded total debt and capital lease obligations by approximately 420 million.
Late in the first quarter we repaid at maturity the remaining 224 million principal amount of our 5% senior notes.
While interest expense was lower in the quarter partially as a result of this repayment the full benefit will begin to be realized in Q2 when interest expense should decline by approximately $3 million.
At the beginning of the first quarter as part of a warrant exercise we announced the intention to make share repurchases of approximately $101 million equal to the proceeds received from the warrant transaction.
We believe a repurchase program is the best use of cash in this instance since it will largely neutralize the transaction’s impact on our diluted share count.
To that end the Company has repurchased approximately 547 000 Class A shares for 7.3 million to date as of yesterday.
Regarding the pension settlement charge we took in the quarter in Q4 the Company offered participants in various defined benefit pension plans the option to immediately receive a lumpsum payment or to immediately begin receiving a reduced monthly annuity.
We made settlement distributions of approximately $96 million on that offer in the first quarter all of which came from pension assets.
This is what is driving the $40 million special charge that you see in today’s results.
The effect of this offer was to reduce the overall size and inherent risk of our plans as well as to modestly improve our funded status.
We also booked a $5 million charge for a partial withdrawal obligation under a multiemployer pension plan in the quarter.
Moving to our outlook second-quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase at a rate similar to the first-quarter trend driven by the benefit from our digital subscription revenue growth and January’s home-delivery price increase despite continued challenges on the print side.
We expect the total number of net digital subscriber additions in the seasonally slow second quarter to be approximately 30 000 partially driven by the conversion of NYT Now to a free product and the associated loss in paid digital subscriptions.
Advertising revenues are currently expected to be down in the mid-single digits driven by print declines while the digital trend is expected to be consistent with first-quarter growth.
Other revenues are expected to increase in the low-single digits as there are no conferences planned for the second quarter.
And second-quarter operating costs and adjusted operating costs are each expected to decline in the low-single digits as we get the benefit of late 2014 cost reduction initiatives.
With that we'd be happy to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is comes from Alexia Qudrani from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I have two questions.
First is I think in your opening remarks you talked about there's much to be done to retain I think print subscribers.
I was hoping that you could elaborate on what those plans are and how they may work? And then the second question is just really on the cost side.
You guys continue to do such an impressive job reducing your costs specifically on the print distribution efficiencies you're finding can those continue? And maybe some color you can give us on the outlook for the raw material costs? And whether they're meant to continue to decline? Alexia just to say firstly that we think there's scope in both areas -- there is more we can do to on the print retention side including by the way enhancements to the print offering.
I think the brilliantly launched New York Times the new men style section fundamental work innovating and strengthening the product but there is also work we can do we believe inside our current system direct marketing operation to prove print retention.
And as Jim will say in more detail well there's scope to continue to work on the cost side let me handover to Jim.
We continue to be aggressive on things not just on print distribution side but print distribution is obviously still a pretty big component of our cost structure.
We think there is more work to be done there and we've kind of right people placed do it and are quite good at it.
So we expect -- it's gets more difficult but we do expect to be able to continue to find ways to be more efficient in our print operations and that's just necessary and that's why we think about that.
On the news print side news print prices continue to come down so we've benefited both from a price and volume perspective.
Units are down modestly but the price continues to move in our favor and hard to say -- I mean there is a quite a bit of capacity in the market and as always there's an over capacity in the market we think price will continue to be under pressure and we'll get the benefit of that.
If I could squeeze in one more on the digital sub growth which continues to surprise us on the upside.
I don't know if you have a number you can share but longer term do you guys have an internal number of how big that can get? That continues to you know have this impressive growth many years after its launch? I think it's a readable question to answer I mean what I can say is that I think we're so encouraged I mean these actually real number 47 000 net sub is very encouraging number but as the quality all the subscribers continue to encourages we are having some success in reducing churn on the digital side backed in the number.
And we've very encouraged by the loyalty of our digital subscribers particularly once they get to the 1 year maturity in that subscription there are lots of underlying positive indications in that.
We got Kinsey Wilson now on the case working with us and Meredith will be in her new Chief Revenue Officer role also working on whether there are further ways of improving and tweaking that complete portfolio of offers and products in the digital products side.
But we continue to be very bullish we're four years in and we're continuing to see good steady strong growth.
The next question comes from Craig Huber from Huber Research Partners.
Your line is open.
I got few questions my first one if you think about the second quarterly outlook for advertising I'm curious how does the month of April shape up for you? Similar to January is down 10% or the February-March down 3% to 5% that you said? I am happy to take that one hi Craig.
I would say as Jim suggested print generally feels like we'll be pretty consistent with the first quarter.
Although January was particularly bad I don't know that we will see that again.
And in digital we’re up to a brisk start.
Very positive start.
Very positive start.
With comps getting a little tougher as we get into the quarter.
Yes.
So I'm sorry if that's to say that in the month of April we're basically at the end of the month now is that down similar to down 3% to 5% you saw in February and March? We've had a decent month of April largely driven by really strong digital month but again the comps gets more difficult in the back part of the quarter.
That’s what gives us rise in a kind pf mid-single digit and combined.
On the comps as well through the rest of the quarter and then through the rest of the year the print comps digital comps tend to get tougher because without this is latter part of 2014 when we started seeing really strong digit growth.
But if you look at the April comps last year they were toughest for the quarter.
Then on the print circulation volume side I believe the first quarter Daily was down -- I am sorry the fourth quarter down 6.7% Sunday was down 4.5%.
What were those numbers for the first quarter year-over-year please? The number for Daily in the first quarter we've had about 6.7% down and Sunday 5.2% down.
One thing I would say about that is we will expect those trends to improve for a number of reasons as we go throughout the year and we change some of our marketing efforts and we moved away from some lower retaining copies towards the second half of the last year.
So once we get into the second half of the year we would expect some of those trends to begin to moderate.
So we’re feeling some of the effect of that.
Also it's fair to say in that overall print circulation decline for Q1 of 2.4% whether this currently affecting that number as well.
I would say about quarter of that would be currency related.
And that will also moderate as we go through the back half of the year as the euro was declining throughout last year.
So we will see some moderation on that as well.
So we look into back half of the year to see more positive trends in the print circulation side.
On the currency effect as well positive effect on the cost side so you can't say there was a -- as a well as profitability growth.
And then Jim another housekeeping question please what was the basic shares outstanding at the end of the quarter please? End of the quarter I have only the average which obviously will be higher at the end of the quarter or maybe at 163 that number should go higher because the warrant exercised took place -- it wasn’t outstanding for the full quarter.
So they should tick up a little bit after the 163 as we go into next quarter.
But then you have the factor in whatever the activity run share buybacks are.
Okay.
One last question please.
Your cash on the balance sheet -- your net cash on the balance sheet obviously you've been getting a lot of pressure from investors.
I'm sure it's going to intensify here going forward to do something with that cash rather than just let it sit there.
What is your long-term expectation of what you are going to do with that? Just preparing for a rainy day here when we get back into a full-fledged recession? We are in the early stages of a share buyback we've committed about $100 million buyback we’re very early stages we didn't really start executing on that until late into the quarter.
So some of that cash we expect to be putting in share buyback.
We feel at the dividend level the amount of cash that we are generating and that we’re paying up in dividends feels about right given where we are at.
Look pension obligations is not an insignificant issue for us so we don't think we will be putting cash against that we have to be mindful and we can't ignore that that’s not in the net debt number but we have to be mindful of that.
We will continue to explore the best use of it but as of right now we feel like maintaining a fairly conservative balance to positive feels about right but we are… One more thing about that is recently I have got in the place now the leadership team that I worked in this company and we got -- I mean digital revenue marketing and advertising.
And we will be looking hard at whether there are opportunities to invest both organically and what we are doing already but potentially also in new business lines.
So I also think of this being a period as we think how we grow our company where we will be looking of course judiciously but looking further ways of investing in growth.
Your next question comes from Bill Bird from FBR.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
On paying digital subs how many will you lose on the conversion to free at NYT Now? And I was wondering on digital advertising if you would just talk a little bit about each of the growth areas? Mobile Paid Posts video and how you see them developing? Thank you.
The expectation when we move to Pay is that we’ll be able to convert at least some portion of our subscribers to paying customers to our core app.
So we don’t think we’ll lose the full count.
But we do think this probably 4 000 to 5 000 units that will likely come out of our subscriber account.
So that 30 000 number I gave I would think that we will be kind of on gross basis will be some -- maybe 5 000 higher.
If it wasn’t for that affect actually it would be in line with [indiscernible] ahead of the Q2 2014 number.
We’ll have to see how many we can convert but I don’t think this is going to be a swing -- a big swing on that issue alone.
We stopped promoting heavily that product over the summer until we felt like we got the product in the marketing so there's not that much pressure on that… As we said before there's some seasonality in the digital ad numbers we’ve seen certainly saw in 2013 2014 Q2 partly because it's a lesser quarter for education Q2 typically brings somewhat lower than Q1.
But I think our number given that the fact that Now is going free is -- it supports the idea of continued bullish growth in the subscriber count.
And probably means that we had 1 million number 1 million digital only subscribers probably at sometime in Q3.
And I think you asked about digital advertising.
Four main areas of growth really actually five pay post continues to be a big part of the growth story and we'd still say we’re just getting started there and we’ve made a big expansion of the team here in the U.S.
to actually build the print content work and so we expect that to continue to grow nicely we're also making an investment in building international content studio so we think that will have a nice impact going forward.
Mobile has been a growth area I want to say in the 40% range up over first quarter of last year and that's also an area that we expect to continue to grow and have a lot of optimism around one of the reasons mobile grew in the quarter as we've done a lot of I think good work to change in many cases ad placements in very careful ways with an eye toward user experience and that’s gone well.
Programmatic grew nicely in the first quarter and there is that is mostly coming in the form of preferred and private deals where we're opening up specific demand pool so a particular market or buying us anymore automated way.
And then video which is also still a relatively small business for us.
Video is growing and growing nicely.
The one other I’ll say is we’re still seeing in digital advertising and I think we’ve got some more running room here just the benefit of improved sales execution.
And I’m curious on video are you doing any offsite syndicated video? And do you have any aspirations of doing that? Yes and yes.
So we’re doing some now and we definitely have aspirations of doing substantially more there I think we’ve made video new front this week.
We’ve made really good progress on the quality of our video production the number of productions and now the real work is how do we achieve substantial stream growth and we are working on that.
And just one final question.
How large is mobile as a proportion of your digital ad revenues? I think we just -- Andrea can correct me but we’ve just crossed more than 10% and we expect that number to keep going up and it’s a big area of focus for us in advertising right now as it is on the consumer side of business.
Great.
Thank you.
The percentages are substantially higher on the consumer side.
Yes particularly this last quarter.
Yes.
The next question comes from Doug Arthur from Huber Research.
Your line is open.
Mark two questions.
The decision to go free on New York Times Now I guess question one is why do you think it did not work as a paid model? And then secondarily what do you hoping to gain by making it free? I would assume on the digital ad side.
And then second question you're combining marketing and advertising under Meredith.
What does that mean? What do you see is the benefit of that? Okay.
Doug two really good questions.
Firstly with Now I think that where we’ve got to with Now is thinking that it will reach a broader audience and build a broader audience free than it could as the subscription product.
And I think there is a lesson.
When we introduced Cooking later -- or rather a few months after Now last year -- learning from Now we decided the right thing to do with Cooking was to try and build that audience right away before turning to the question of monetization.
So the first think is straight forward we think Now is great and very influential people who use it love it but we wanted to get out some more people making it free we're hoping to do that.
And absolutely a bigger audience means that we can think about building advertising revenue from it and then will allow other forms of revenue from Now in due course.
But it means the people can really get out there use it and get to know it.
And as for Meredith I believe in al sort of ways it makes sense to think about our two revenues stream advertising and consumer revenue together.
There are many things we need to do around the way we think about our content management systems about the way in which both advertising and direct marketing messages flow into the news feed particularly on smartphone where it makes sense to think about the two together.
Creative services we're beginning to have a significant and very exciting business in actually making advertising content in our T brand studio for our paid posts.
We have a big Creative service operation inside our marketing function to give you those together.
I think also as we think about new products and think about what's the best way to optimizing monetization.
I think having one leader thinking rather two together make sense but also I want to say something more straightforward which is Meredith has made a fantastic success in turning around and strengthening our advertising operation and I'm sure she'll do the same in marketing.
Question comes from Kennan Venkateshwar.
Your line is open -- from Barclays.
So just a couple of questions.
First on the trends in terms of your print versus digital now that digital has been around for the last few quarters.
Just wanted to understand what the underlying trends looks like where it says print and churn? Or is -- and then on -- how many of your print subscribers moved over to digital? What kind of consumption patterns there are between mobile tablet desktop and so on? If you can just help us with that that will be very useful.
This is a gigantic topic Kennan.
I'm not sure we can do complete justice to your question right now.
But headlines once you headlines is I mentioned loyalty digital subscriber loyalty a year or after a year of subscription and on app.
Our digital subscribers are slightly more loyal than our print subscribers.
We are seeing a very competitive picture in terms of print to digital subscription.
But I think without wanting to disclose detailed numbers I would say that we are seeing a movement week-by-week from print to digital as one of the movements in subscription.
It is relatively small number small percentage numbers at the moment.
The numbers are as we're slowly-slowly growing.
We believe that the print subscription offer remains relevant to many-many households and it's the print product remains to great product.
Obviously we would much rather if a print subscriber wants to no longer receive the physical by any chance we would much well convert it to becoming a digital subscriber the to churn out of our ecosystem altogether.
But we also don't want to do unnecessary hurry in that process one of Meredith's challenge is going to be to in fact print through and manage that process of transition in a way which generates the most cash flows over the long term and most future groups of business and we're thinking very carefully about that.
In terms of different platforms it won't be surprised to hear that we're seeing dramatically more use of mobile platforms in particular smartphone that would have been true a few years ago that's also true that although smartphone is heavily used subscribers.
Much of the increased traffic to smartphone is from somewhat lighter users so majority of our visits are to mobile rather than desktop.
But if you look at time spent desktop and particularly the amount of time spent by very heavy use subscribers a lot of it is still on desktop.
So we're seeing a transition.
I believe that we're beginning to solve the issues around monetization on smartphone with superior ad units video will play a parts in that papers will play a part.
We also believe that we are doing a better job in terms of convincing subscribers but it makes a lot of sense to have subscriptions even if they are smartphone heavy users.
So that's not a complete answer but I've touched some of your points anyway.
Next question comes from John Janedis from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Couple of questions first there has been a lot of talk in the marketplace about pressure and preprints and some changes from the consumer electronics and re-tab articles.
Can you tell us what you are seeing and just a reminder what percent of ad revenue in the category represents? By preprints I assume you mean FSI what we can FSI or Free Standing Inserts.
I do think that that is a category that is under fair amount of secular pressure it is not a big category for us and so well it is under pressure it's not of a huge impact because again it's a small minority of our print advertising business.
It's a very small part of business so most of our print advertising is still coming from major national advertisers we have a fair amount of optimism there particularly around the new products that we've launched for those advertisers like the magazine like even tea which was redesigned a couple of ago but to great success and then Style.
I think it's worth adding that without [indiscernible] but we believe that measuring column inches and studying our competitors that we’re doing significantly better in our national print advertising business.
And I will say one more thing just under preprint or FSI specifically it is a business that we are putting some thought into so making sure that we have it staffed right way and we’re optimizing our execution is something that we have spent some time on.
So we were committed to getting every last dollar that’s there into the Times from FSIs.
And then Jim I just wanted to clarify what you said one cost.
I think in your remarks you said future quarters wouldn't have as much savings and then said that I think 2Q cost would be down low single.
So I wanted to clarify were you referring to the 4% GAAP number from Q1 and as you know that the full year will be down modestly.
I think the way it will play out is I think you will see good performance in Q2 where some of the things we benefit in Q1 might be kind of one time in the quarter.
I think what we will see in Q2 is some of the marketing spend around some of the new product launches that took place last year which won't exist this year will suggest that will have some pretty good performance in Q2.
I think the back half of the year will be less aggressive than the first half of the year but still I expect cost will largely be down back half of the year as well but probably more modest in the first half.
Okay and maybe one quickie on advertising.
I just wanted to clarify.
We haven't discussed this for a while I think.
But just in terms of the Easter shift -- because it sounds like April seems somewhat in line to March.
But was there -- is there more or less like a tougher comp because Easter had a positive impact on March and a negative one in April? Or is it de minimis.
I think it's pretty de minimis.
I don't think that had a material impact.
We have no further questions in queue.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters for closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us this morning and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Goodbye everyone thank you.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Chris and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The New York Times Company Q2 2015 Conference Call.
Thank you.
Andrea Passalacqua Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to The New York Times Company's second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
On the call today we have: Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Meredith Kopit Levien Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that management will make forward-looking statements during the course of this call and our actual results could differ materially.
Some of the risks and uncertainties that could impact our business are included in our 2014 10-K.
In addition our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our website at investors.nytco.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Andrea and good morning everyone.
In fact I want to preface my remarks with a development that took place after the second quarter closed.
A few days ago our digital-only subscriber count passed through the 1 million mark.
It's a very encouraging milestone for digital pay model which only launched in 2011 and which continues to grow strongly.
It's also a first in world journalism.
We believe that no other news organization has achieved digital subscriber numbers like ours or comparable digital subscription revenue a great credit to the sheer quality of the work of our newsroom and editorial department and to the brilliant consumer marketing product and technology teams who have made it possible.
This digital-only subscriber number is of course in addition to our 1.1 million print and digital subscribers.
This news is evidence of the progress we are making on the digital side of our business.
That progress was clear in the second quarter of 2015 to which I will now turn.
We posted double-digit year-over-year growth in both digital advertising and digital subscription revenue in Q2.
This is the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in digital advertising revenue.
The print advertising headwinds that began in late 2014 also continued into Q2 though we saw some reduction in those headwinds in July.
Nonetheless ongoing and effective expense management contributed to a 16% increase in the company's adjusted operating profit and adjusted earnings per share of $0.13 compared with $0.07 in the prior year.
So let's now take a closer look at our Q2 results beginning with digital subscriptions.
In Q2 we added 33 000 net paid subscribers which is a better result for the second quarter than we saw in either of the past two years.
That means that we ended Q2 with 990 000 paid digital-only subscribers a 19% year-over-year increase.
And that's why we were able to exceed a 1 million subs early in the current quarter.
The growth in Q2 is particularly pleasing since it includes the impact of our decision to convert NYT Now into a free product.
Although we were successful in migrating many Now subscribers to core subscriptions some understandably elected to continue to use Now for free.
Had it not been for this one-time effect the number of net new subscribers would have been higher still.
The digital consumer growth in the second quarter was driven by growing strength in international subscriptions as well as improved retention.
International subs now represent 13% of our digital total a percentage which we expect will continue to grow very nicely in the coming quarters.
As I mentioned last quarter the results of the program we put in place in the second half of 2014 to develop our audience so far have been very encouraging and are contributing to the continued growth in digital subscriptions.
U.S.
digital traffic for instance in the form of unduplicated unique users across all devices was up 27% year-over-year in the second quarter which was even better than the solid 22% increase we saw in Q1 to an average of 60 million monthly users.
We aim to continue on this trajectory and we expect these results to help both digital advertising and consumer revenue over time.
Let me focus now on digital advertising where we also saw continued momentum in the quarter with year-on-year growth of more than 14%.
Mobile Paid Posts video and programmatic all contributed to that growth.
I also want to provide an update on the ad viewability issue that we introduced to you last quarter.
This is the new industry-wide effort to ensure that advertisers only pay for impressions that have actually been viewed by users.
Given the quality and engagement of The Times's audience we expect this new standard to benefit our digital advertising proposition in the long run and we are currently optimizing our digital properties to meet it.
But as I suggested last quarter we may see a moderate revenue impact in the second half of 2015 as we transition to the new standard.
Digital advertising revenue will also face challenging year-over-year comparisons in the second half of the year; Q3 2014 for example was up 17% while Q4 2014 was up 19%.
For these two reasons we expect growth in digital advertising to be somewhat lower in the second half of the year than the first.
In Q3 we estimate you will see it will grow in the mid single-digit percentage range.
Jim will put this piece of guidance in context in a few minutes time.
We remain very bullish on our ability to continue to innovate and grow our digital advertising business on a sustained basis.
Earlier this week for instance we announced the launch of a major new mobile ad product.
Mobile Moments is an advertising solution based on the insight that our readers' appetite for different kinds of content and the attendant advertising opportunity changes radically across the course of the day from the early morning need to get caught up on the news through the working day to the evening when entertainment lifestyle and longer features may all come to the fore.
Mobile Moments enables marketers to target the right readers with the right messages at the right time.
And while we won't launch it until next month it's already selling strongly.
But now let's look more closely at the print side of our business.
As I said at the start the print advertising headwinds that began in late 2014 continued into the second quarter.
Print ended down 13% year-over-year which includes steeper falls in advertising for our international newspaper as well as some foreign currency effects.
When combined with the gains in digital advertising the overall advertising decline was 6%.
As I mentioned at the start we do expect print advertising headwinds to ease a bit in the third quarter.
While growth in digital subscriptions enabled overall circulation revenue to grow in the quarter by just under 1% there was a decline in print circulation revenue of 2.3% as lower volume more than offset the positive effects of our January price increase.
Nonetheless similar to the digital consumer side we are putting more emphasis on print circulation retention including increased focus on our delivery service experience better use of customer analytics and improved customer service and hope to report progress on this front soon.
Since our last earnings call we have entered into three important relationships all of which we believe will help us to reach large new audiences with our unparalleled journalism.
Facebook's Instant Articles is already under way and for the initial test audience has resulted in significantly reduced article load times and thus improved reader experience.
Apple News will launch later this year and will also allow us also to distribute our content to millions of potential new readers.
And we also announced a deal with Starbucks last month that will make our top news and a selection of other articles available for free via the Starbucks mobile app for all 10 million Starbucks loyalty members beginning in the first half of next year.
We expect all of these platforms to contribute to our digital audience and revenue growth story.
We also made some additional leadership announcements in the second quarter building on the executive appointments I announced earlier this year.
We have created a new role called Senior Vice President of Consumer Marketing who will supervise an already strong marketing team and will aim to accelerate subscription growth across our expansive product portfolio.
And we have also brought in an SVP for our events business NYT Live who will assume responsibility for the commercial aspects of all Times conferences TimesTalks and other live events.
Both of these positions will report to Meredith.
But now to give you more detail on the financial picture let me hand you over to Jim Follo.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark highlighted we maintained our digital momentum in Q2 as we again saw strong performance on both the digital advertising and digital subscription sides of the business.
There is still much to do to accomplish though as even this solid digital progress did not offset the overall print declines which resulted in total revenues finishing down for the quarter.
Operating expenses decreased again in the second quarter by nearly $18 million overall due to print distribution efficiencies and declines in a broad set of other expense categories.
Furthermore cost comparisons benefited as marketing spend that occurred in the second quarter of 2014 around the launch of some new digital products did not repeat.
Our focus on reducing legacy costs remains a top priority but as I have said previously we do not expect to see the same level of cost reductions in the second half of the year as we achieved in the first half.
Adjusted operating profit rose 16% in the quarter to $64 million.
We reported GAAP operating profit of approximately $38 million compared to $16 million in the same period of 2014.
Circulation revenues increased approximately 1% with our digital subscription revenue stream more than offsetting print declines.
We benefited from January's home-delivery price increases although higher revenue associated with the new rates was outweighed by overall print volume declines.
In the second quarter digital-only subscription revenues were approximately $47 million an increase of 14% of the same quarter in 2014.
Advertising continued its strong digital run in the quarter finishing up 14% and partially offsetting the print advertising decline of 13%.
Digital advertising continued to benefit from revenue growth in mobile; Paid Posts including related production; video and programmatic; but the print losses still led to an overall advertising decline of 6%.
The month-to-month volatility in advertising has not abated as illustrated by the fact that overall advertising was down 2% in April 10% in May and 6% in June.
Print advertising revenue declined across the board while digital was consistently strong particularly in April.
And finally on the revenue side other revenues grew 5% in the quarter driven by higher revenues from our Crossword product where we recently increased prices as well as increased rental income associated with the lease of an additional floor of our headquarters building that began in Q1.
Expense management remained front and center in Q2 as we continued to target cost reductions while maintaining investment in our digital future.
Costs were down 5% on a GAAP basis and we reported diluted earnings per share of $0.10.
Expenses declined mainly due to production distribution efficiencies as well as decreases in depreciation and amortization raw materials costs and outside printing expenses.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.13 in the quarter compared to $0.07 in the prior year.
Our non-operating retirement costs were up in the quarter at $8.7 million although retirement costs are generally flattening out in 2015.
We expect non-operating retirement costs in the third quarter to again be approximately $9 million vs.
$8.3 million in Q3 of 2014.
The joint venture line had a loss of approximately $356 000 in the second quarter 2015 due to losses at the paper mills compared to a small income in last year's second quarter.
In Q2 2015 we also made a $2.3 million investment in Women in the World led by Tina Brown whose annual summit brings together female leaders from around the world.
As for the balance sheet our liquidity position remained solid in the second quarter.
Our cash and marketable security balance was $880 million and our total cash position exceeded total debt and capital lease obligations by approximately $451 million.
Late in the first quarter we repaid the remaining $224 million principal amount of our 5% senior notes and we began to recognize the full benefit of that repayment in Q2 as interest expense declined by more than $3 million.
We expect similar expense savings related to the repayment for the remainder of 2015.
Earlier this year as part of a warrant exercise we announced the intention to make share repurchases of approximately $101 million equal to the proceeds received from the warrant transaction.
As we've said we believe a repurchase program is the best use of cash in this instance as it will largely neutralize the transaction's impact on our diluted share count.
To that end the company has repurchased approximately 1.4 million Class A shares for approximately $18.9 million to-date as of August 4.
Moving to our outlook third-quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase at a rate similar to the second quarter trend driven by the benefit from our digital subscription revenue growth despite continued challenges on the print side.
We expect the total number of net digital subscriber additions to be in the high 30 000s.
Third quarter advertising are difficult to forecast because as typical at this time of year we have limited visibility into September which contributes a disproportionate share of the quarterly revenue.
That said we currently expect overall advertising revenue to again be down in the mid-single digits though with some sequential improvement from Q2.
We are seeing some moderation in the headwinds we've been experiencing on the print side but as Mark has already said the impact of viewability and tough year-over-year comparisons means that we expect digital advertising will grow in the mid single digits and other revenues are expected to increase in the low-double digits.
Third quarter operating costs are expected to decline in the low single digits as we will be cycling $21 million in severance expense in last year's third quarter.
And adjusted operating expenses are expected to be flat to slightly down in the quarter.
And with that we'd be happy to open it up for questions.
Your first question is from Doug Arthur with Huber Research.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Jim when you say sequential improvement in the third quarter you're talking about sort of nuances on mid single digit decline versus Q2 is that fair? Well I would suggest I think that Q2 advertising number is down negative 5.5% so we are suggesting it will be below that number but it still puts it in the mid single digit down range.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up Mark can you or Meredith talk about just sort of your initial experience with making New York Times Now free how that sort of affected – what kind of traction it's getting? And obviously it's not having much of an impact I mean bad impact in terms of digital sub growth paid growth.
So how is that playing out versus your expectation? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Just on the last point on the digital subscription story.
I think that we had a one-off effect obviously at flipping it from subscription to free.
But actually we were pretty happy with the conversion rate of Now subscribers.
And the intention of doing it was to promote Now as a free experience of Times journalism and to encourage as many people to use it.
We're pretty happy with the Now story.
It had a slight impact on our Q2 overall subscriber ads.
But to be honest even with that impact we've gotten a high number of net digital subscribers this year than we had a year ago at the point where Now was launching as a subscription product.
So I feel very good that the core subscription and our superior marketing tactics and in particular the growing success we're having internationally means that the digital subscription story is very strong at the moment.
And we've now freed Now to find its audience.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Do you want to talk about any initial thoughts about how Now is doing? Yeah.
Sure.
I mean I will just say that we did a bit better that we expected on converting I think slightly more than half of the Now subscribers to bundle A.
So that's good.
And we see Now as part of a broader effort to grow audience with some limited amount of free content that brings new audiences to The Times.
And we're excited about it.
And I think the fact that we were able to put up a brisk second quarter in digital subs while this is going on is a very promising sign.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Bill Bird with FBR.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you'd talk a little more about how the Facebook Instant Articles program is going.
Could it enable another spurt in digital sub growth because of sampling.
And then separately with cash continuing to build what are your thoughts on how you might deploy cash? Thank you.
I'm happy to take Facebook.
Jim can take cash.
In general I'll say this is very much an experiment.
We think it's a deliberate and important experiment for us.
And that the basic idea is three-fold.
One to keep growing The Times we know we have to keep growing the audience for The Times and we see Facebook as a good way to do that.
It's bringing new audiences to us.
If we look at who uses us on Facebook it tends to be folks who are not already subscribers to The Times.
So we're excited about that.
And two I would say we are playing a long game here and trying to make sure we understand and have access to some of the best information at the frontier of consumer media experience and how people engage with content on social platforms is a very important part of that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And it's worth saying that I mean we're really focused on every bit of the funnel from the top to the bottom...
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All the way through from the first touch point we have with a user through to someone becoming a full long-term subscriber.
I mean I think if you ask me I think we think that the – I mean a lot of our fundamental audience developments is quite high up the funnel.
Yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think we're going to learn over time how we can use our platform partnerships like Facebook Instant Articles and where in the funnel that helps us but as you probably saw already we think we've got quite a few significant growth drivers already at work in our digital subscription business and which is why we're pretty bullish about progress on that front.
And we're making a deliberate choice to sort of do more work at the top of the funnel and we would say what we're doing with Facebook and Apple and Starbucks and NYT Now are all a part of that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Correct.
That's right.
Cash? On the cash side is we're executing on our $100 million share repurchase.
So we're about $20 million into that.
We'll continue and we expect to execute on that fully.
Look we're mindful of that issue.
It's top of mind.
I don't feel like we have anything more to report.
What I will say is we're not putting cash towards our pension obligations.
We're still pretty confident that those things will take care of themselves we hope through interest rate rises.
And we'll have to continue to evaluate use of cash.
Our debt position continues to come down.
We do have a maturity towards the end of next year about $180 million which we'll evaluate as we get a little bit closer to that point.
But we continue to evaluate use of cash and we're very careful with the way we deploy it.
But right now we like where we're positioned.
And just an add-on on the digital subscribers is the slight uptick in digital subscriber additions in Q3 do you attribute that more to seasonality or is there some other thing going on? I would say it's three things – four things actually.
One better international growth and that's from rolling out more in-currency billing and also marketing more effectively to international customers.
We also saw brisk business in groups of corporate and education subscriptions.
We are seeing better retention and I would say broadly we're executing better.
And we think all of those things will continue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I just want to say – I've mentioned we've just been joined by Clay Fisher as the new head of direct marketing and he came from DIRECTV.
We think there's plenty of opportunity to continue to improve the way we market our digital subscriptions and the whole complete customer lifetime value piece from the moment they become a customer and retention and so forth.
So plenty more work to do but what's encouraging I think we're now seeing what we started something like 15 months ago in areas like retention in international is really paying off.
So we're very encouraged by that.
Yeah.
And I would say there's still good distance to be travelled in all of those areas.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question is from John Janedis with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Meredith this maybe is for you.
You talked about plans – I think it was in the press to introduce a video version of mobile ads.
Can you talk more about that opportunity and what it could mean longer term for modernization to mobile? Sure.
We are hugely focused on mobile right now and Mark just talked about the Mobile Moments product that we launched this week.
That is a product that is enabled for basically any format a marketer wants to use including video and I expect we'll have a meaningful amount of video in that.
We've also done some work on our tech stack to make – frankly selling mobile video advertising an easier thing here so I'm optimistic about that.
And then I would say in branded content video has been one of the areas where we've been most successful.
So video in two ways either developing short films with informed marketers or developing major multimedia storytelling instances that include video as a major part of them.
And so it's a huge area of focus for us.
Got it.
And Mark? And if you look at our most recent Paid Posts most of them have video in them and most of them are optimized.
They're all actually optimized for a mobile experience.
All right.
Thanks Meredith.
Mark you talked about your digital and print subscriber count.
I think you're now at a point where your reach is probably something in the range of a top 10 cable network.
And yeah I know there's no perfect overlap in advertisers but is there any kind of opportunity to compete for wallet with cable networks given the ratings issues they're having more as your reach is more stable? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that's really interesting.
And I mean in a sense I think part of this is a question about the counterparty the advertising industry and to what extent the advertising industry is prepared to be more – and indeed ultimate for customers marketers – are prepared to be open-minded.
But as platforms come together I think this kind of opportunity absolutely looms large for us so yes definitely I think.
But Meredith do you want to add to that? Yeah.
I would agree with that.
I would say the number of entities and the nature of entities that we're competing with is far more broad than it's ever been.
And to the question I was just asked video is becoming a much more meaningful part of our solution set for advertisers and it will continue to get bigger and that will put us in direct competition with those coming from the television space.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And what's interesting about this to me is I think the traditional or kind of recent kind of fixed narrative about newspapers is that they are the victims of new entrants competing with them.
I think your suggestion is a really good example there as where we can ourselves be disruptors and can get in and get dollars out of advertising markets which were historically closed to us.
That's right.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Craig Huber with Huber Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning.
I missed a little bit about what you said about the slower growth for digital ad revenue in at least the third quarter if not the back half of the year.
You really talked about a new standard.
I was wondering if you could just go over that a little bit further please.
Sure.
I'll take that and Jim you can fill in anything I miss.
So we're coming off a full year of double digit digital advertising increases.
And in the third quarter of last year we grew 17% so we're comping against very strong period of growth in Q3.
In addition to that.
And it is 19% in Q4.
19%.
Right.
So a full half year of strong growth.
In addition to that we have been working to make viewability a meaningful part of our ongoing operation so essentially optimizing our site for the viewability standard that the ad market is seeking.
And as we cycle through that we expect viewability to have some impact in the near term on revenue less so over time as it just becomes standard operating procedure.
But those two things and also frankly a whole lot of uncertainty about September and it's always this way about September because September is such a big month lead us to give the guidance we've given.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's worth saying then I tried to say this in my remarks that we also feel that we've got real growth drivers in place in digital advertising.
Absolutely.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Lots of innovation.
Our branded content business is going great guns.
Really striking growth there.
I mentioned Mobile Moments.
That's part of a broader story of innovation in mobile advertising.
We're very encouraged by the track of mobile advertising and the way the percentage of digital advertising coming to mobile is growing very rapidly.
So we've got one or two specific issues which are to do with comps and viewability.
The bigger story we think about digital advertising remains an extremely encouraging one.
Yeah.
And I'll just add to that on mobile specifically we in the second quarter we actually went from about 10% of our digital advertising business coming from mobile to a full 15%.
And we think that number should only go up as we launch this new suite of premium mobile products.
So we're very encouraged by what we're seeing there and there's a lot of demand in the market.
Along those same lines please could you also just talk about potentially how much of a problem it might be coming here with more and more people using these advertising blockers on mobile devices and then also on desktop and I understand that Apple with iPhone is likely going to allow that to be downloaded here soon? How much of a problem is that for your business but also for the whole ecosystem as well that are advertising-focused? Yeah.
I think it's a real issue for the ecosystem and I we like everybody else are trying to understand what impact it will have on our supply.
It has not had a material impact on supply so far.
Certainly becomes a bigger issue with what you've just described.
But I think we feel pretty good about the fact that a lot of the new products we're putting out in the market are more native to the experience to the journalistic experience and that may allow us to get around some of the pressure that ad blockers would otherwise provide.
And then also a nitpick question can you just talk a little further about how digital and print ad revenue did in the month of July year-over-year? Can you quantify it for us if you would? Sure.
Sure.
We saw – we had a better-than-expected July in print.
Actually year-over-year as a month better performance than we had seen in some time.
So optimistic about that and we grew in digital in July as well.
So I think in general July will be a good month.
Yeah.
And look the comps on digital really I mean we're up 25%.
27% yeah.
Yeah 26% in July so it's not a clean indicative month.
Yeah.
But as we've said the month of September makes our quarter it's 35 percentage of total revenues it's not quite 50% but it's in the 40s of the total revenue.
So you really got to be mindful of that.
We don't have a ton of visibility there but we're up to a decent start.
Pretty good start.
But that's somewhat embedded in our guidance that we gave this morning.
Yeah.
Good.
My last little question please.
Daily and Sunday print circulation volume what was that percent changes year-over-year please? Daily is down 6.8%.
Sunday is down 5.1% and I think that's consistent with the prior quarter.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Kannan Venkateshwar with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Just one question from my side.
Jim on the margin side of it now digital is I think close to $100 million for you guys in the quarter and obviously events is growing at a faster clip than the rest of the business.
So when you think about the contribution margin from the newer revenue sources versus the legacy revenue sources how should we think about the impact of that on margins? Especially as you go more to mobile and video and so on and so forth.
I'd say it's a pretty complicated story and it depends – look I think broadly speaking obviously digital as a business doesn't come with the big kind of legacy cost that digital does.
But there's dynamics around digital and in certain cases that come with cost that maybe print doesn't for example.
Margin or certain aspects of digital advertising could be slightly lower to print.
When we lose print advertising we regularly say it comes out at 90%.
Paid Posts for example is production cost behind that but it's still very high-margin business.
But 90% margin is 90% margin on print.
So look I think – you know look we continue – as the digital business grows rapidly we continue to invest quite a bit behind that.
So the payback on that investment comes a year or two years later.
So you don't fully feel the margin expansion early on in a growing business like you might otherwise.
But look we're going to have to continue to be pretty aggressive in taking cost out on the print side.
We're very focused on margin and protecting margin in the business.
And we'll have to – we'll continue to be aggressive particularly on the print side in taking cost out.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
If I can just a second.
I'm just saying I mean you can see from the Q2 results that we are focusing very hard on the cost side while investing enough to build digital business.
We absolutely believe that the digital transition that we're going through in this company requires us to have a strategic view about our cost base and about long-range future margin.
And that's a large focus of management attention as well as the business of growing digital revenue.
And I have seen nothing yet that suggests to me that it will not be possible for us to effectively defend margin as we make through some transition.
And by the way to do that whilst still maintaining the quality of the journalism that The Times produces.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean just to follow-up on that I mean if I look at the margin expansion that you saw this quarter or the – just in general the job that you guys have been doing with cost cuts that's obviously helped a lot on the margin side of it.
But the operating leverage that you would expect from the digital side initially is obviously capped by all the investments you guys have made but as we go forward and as you lap those investments just wondering from a timing perspective when we start seeing that operating leverage now that costs to a certain extent are optimized and you continue that process and then you have these new revenue lines which keep adding on the margin side of it.
So when we go into 2016 and so on should we expect the profile of the business from a margin perspective to be different compared to what it is today? A lot of that tends to be driven by our view of advertising.
And as I said because it's such a volatile ad market that the margin discussion tends to be around what our view of the mix of our business is between consumer and print.
And then even within advertising digital and print.
And as I said earlier when you lose a dollar or you gain a dollar of revenue it's coming in at 90%.
So it has a big impact on the margin story.
So if we can grow advertising you'll see margin expansion.
When there's pressure on advertising it puts a lot pressure as it costs out.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Without getting too philosophical about it I think another way to look at this is the question as to what extent you can grow your engaged audience.
A significant number of the costs your – for example your journalism costs in a high-quality digital journalism business are relatively fixed costs.
There are critical strategic questions about how much you can grow not just your headline audience but your engaged audience and your paying audience.
And that's what a significant part of our focus on what I described earlier as the funnel is around issue of how you grow and how you accelerate growth in your audience.
Because in the end if you can get a strongly grown audience and maintaining engagement measured by time spent and are effectively marketing and managing the funnel with that audience you have a chance of growing your audience sufficiently to get a great margin story.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
We'll turn the call back over to Ms.
Passalacqua for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us this morning and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the New York Times Company Q3 2014 earnings conference call.
At this time all lines have been placed on mute to prevent background noise.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Please note that this call is being recorded today Thursday October 30 at 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today’s call Andrea Passalacqua Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Passalacqua.
Thank you and welcome to The New York Times Company’s third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
On the call today are Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Meredith Kopit Levien Executive Vice President of Advertising.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that management will make forward-looking statements during the course of this call and our actual results could differ materially.
Some of the risks and uncertainties that could impact our business are included in our 2013 10-K.
Our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliation’s to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our website at investors.nytco.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Thanks Andrea and good morning everyone.
The third quarter was an encouraging one.
Digital advertising grew strongly enough to offset a tough June and July on the print side and leave total advertising revenue broadly flat.
On the digital subscription side we added 44 000 new customers a 20% year-over-year increase and the best quarterly result in nearly two years; we are on course to add more net new digital subscribers in 2014 than we did in 2013.
As a result total revenue was up just under 1%.
Operating costs rose principally because of costs associated with previously disclosed workforce reductions and expenses related to our strategic initiatives though the effect of these rises was moderated by efficiencies in other parts of the company and the workforce reductions will of course help us manage our costs in the medium-term.
Adjusted operating profit was $40 million in the third quarter compared to $45 million in the same quarter last year.
We’re pleased with our progress in advertising.
Although we do not expect every future quarter to show as strong year-over-year digital advertising growth as this one Q3 was up nearly 17% compared to Q3 2013.
We do believe that we have the right strategy and the right talent to deliver sustainable future success.
Take Paid Posts our native advertising product.
We only introduced Paid Posts in January but will end the year with more than 30 clients.
We also saw continued growth in video and on smartphone platform to other areas of strategic focus.
Print advertising rallied in September after two slow summer months and finished the quarter much better than we had anticipated though as you’ll hear from Jim in a few minutes the outlook continues to be volatile and prediction is genuinely difficult.
Over the quarter as a whole print decline 5% year-over-year a fall almost entirely offset by that 17% year-over-year growth in digital advertising.
Circulation revenue was also better than initially expected as the combination of this year’s increase in home-delivery prices and continued growth in the number of digital subscribers more than offset a decline in print copies sold and resulted in an overall increase in circulation revenues of 1.3%.
Although much of our focus is on the development of our digital business you will also see us innovating and investing in the physical New York Times.
We recently introduced a new eight-page panoramic advertising unit for the main newspaper which is a first in the United States.
Take a look at how Christie’s used it in yesterday’s paper.
And we are directing new investment at the main New York Times Magazine where we have a brilliant new editor and big plans for 2015.
But let me turn now to the digital product story.
As I said we added approximately 44 000 net new digital subscribers in the quarter for a new total count of 875 000.
Much of the growth came from new subscriptions to our core packages.
There was a much higher proportion of these than in the previous quarter most notably because of an encouraging number of new subscribers in the consumer education and international segments New we gave an update on our new products a few weeks ago.
As we said then we’re encouraged by the chord that NYT Now has struck with younger users many of whom are new to The Times.
We’re going to focus on it as a smartphone-only app while we continue to test other lower-priced subscription offerings on the web and our core mobile apps.
We also noted that Times Premier had got off to a strong start and we’re now focusing more resources on improving the range and richness of the content available to Premier subscribers who are drawn from our most committed readers.
NYT Opinion also attracted some passionate loyalists but some four months after launch we concluded that it just wasn’t attracting the kind of new audience it would need to be truly scalable.
So we decided to sunset the app though we will continue to sell access to the Opinion section of the website as a separate offer.
Finally our Cooking product – which showcases the unrivaled recipe database and outstanding food journalism of The Times – got off to an excellent start in the third quarter.
The iPad app and website only launched in mid-September but already we have seen nearly two million uniques in the month of October.
We already have advertising on the site but want to develop awareness and use before taking the next steps on consumer monetization.
Cooking has successfully built on many of our learnings with our other new products this year.
It’s evidence of the approach we’re taking to digital product development: Grounded in The Times’s great strengths in journalism and design but increasingly user-centric and data-driven unashamedly experimental and willing to adapt.
The Times has much to be proud of in its digital story not least is its launch of what is probably the world’s most successful news-based digital pay model.
But I have concluded that the full achievement of our ambitions requires further organizational change and in particular further injections of specialist digital expertise.
We’ve already seen some significant recent promotions in our newsroom especially in the areas of audience development and digital strategy.
Two days ago I announced some changes on the business side of the company.
The current digital products and services division will be replaced by two new divisions: a marketing division led by the first CMO in the history of The New York Times and a new digital division led by a Chief Digital Officer both of whom will report to me.
Denise Warren has made the decision not to occupy either of these positions and will therefore leave The New York Times Company after a remarkable 26 year career and many great achievements not the least of which is the central role she played in the roll-out of that groundbreaking pay model in 2011.
We wish her every success in the next chapter of her career.
I believe that the changes we are making will help us scale our business successfully but we are determined not to lose momentum in the process and have put appropriate interim arrangements in place with immediate effect.
I look forward to updating you on these organizational changes and the wider track of our business as we go forward but for now I’ll turn it over to Jim Follo for a more detailed financial review.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
In the third quarter we logged strong digital growth on both the advertising and consumer sides of the business and made further progress in our work to ensure that we can maintain that strength.
Despite print declines for both of our main revenue streams the overarching digital strength prevailed leading to third quarter revenues that were up slightly overall.
Expenses rose in the quarter as our focus on reducing core costs was offset by severance expense related to some workforce reductions as well as the investments we are making in our strategic initiatives.
Going forward the strategic initiative expenses should flatten out in the fourth quarter as we are now cycling the ramp-up of that spending in Q4 2013.
Severance expense should decline sequentially in the fourth quarter as well.
We will also continue to monitor our investment spending as we learn more about the near-term revenue potential for our new products.
Operating profit before depreciation amortization severance non-operating retirement costs and special items decreased to $40 million in the quarter from $45 million in the prior year.
The decline was driven mainly by an $8 million or 3% increase in adjusted operating costs most of which is attributable to our strategic initiative investments.
We reported a GAAP operating loss of approximately $9 million in the quarter driven by $21 million in severance expense compared with an operating profit of $13 million in the same period of 2013.
Circulation revenues increased 1% in the third quarter with our digital subscription revenue stream more than offsetting print revenue declines.
On the print side we benefited from January’s home-delivery price increases although higher revenue from the new rates was outweighed by overall volume declines.
In the third quarter digital-only subscription revenues were approximately $43 million an increase of 13% from the same period in 2013.
Advertising accelerated its momentum on the digital platform in the quarter and almost completely offset the print decline.
Digital advertising continues to see a boost from Paid Posts which is our version of branded content and many of those units are being created by our newly formed custom content studio.
Staffing of this in-house branded content group is part of the investments we have recently made in the advertising department and that team continues to grow as demand for Paid Posts remains strong.
Moving on overall advertising revenues continue to exhibit month-to-month volatility and reflect short-term buying decisions demonstrated by declines of 1% in July and 7% in August which were followed by growth of 5% in September driven by a print rally late in the quarter.
Other revenues grew 3% in the quarter driven by higher revenues from our online retail store and content licensing.
Expense-management efforts remained a top priority in the quarter as we took additional steps to lower core costs while maintaining the investments associated with our strategic initiatives.
Early in the fourth quarter we announced a cost-cutting plan that involves headcount reductions across the Company.
We are confident we can achieve those targeted reductions without affecting our world-class journalism and believe that the plan reflects our commitment to strengthening our operating efficiencies while safeguarding our long-term profitability.
These reduction initiatives should allow us to maintain or slightly lower our costs in 2015 relative to 2014 levels while also investing in certain areas of growth.
Costs were up 9% on a GAAP basis capturing the severance expense I just referenced and we reported a diluted loss per share of $0.08 diluted earnings per share excluding severance non-operating retirement costs and special items was $0.03 in the third quarter compared with $0.01 in the prior year.
Costs also rose due to higher compensation and benefits expenses associated with our strategic initiatives in addition to increased retirement costs partially offset by efficiencies in print distribution and customer care.
Our non-operating retirement costs increased by more than $3 million in the quarter and retirement costs will continue to be higher in the fourth quarter due primarily to lower expected returns on pension assets which we are increasingly allocating to fixed income and to higher retiree medical costs and multi-employer withdrawal expenses both triggered by the sale of the New England Media Group.
We expect non-operating retirement costs in the fourth quarter of approximately $9 million.
Moving to the balance sheet our strong liquidity position remained largely unchanged in the third quarter.
Our cash and marketable securities balance was $966 million and our total cash position exceeded total debt and capital lease obligations by approximately $296 million.
During the third quarter we repurchased approximately $18 million principal amount of our 6% and 5/8% senior notes due in 2016.
While our cash balance remained substantial in the third quarter we are still in the early stages of a multiyear transformation as we have outlined today and in recent earnings calls.
So our plans for that cash remain unchanged and we expect to maintain a conservative balance sheet for the foreseeable future.
Moving to our outlook fourth quarter circulation revenues are expected to increase at a rate similar to the third quarter trend driven by the benefit from our digital subscription initiatives and the most recent home-delivery price increase despite continued challenges particularly for newsstand volume.
We expect the total number of net new digital subscriber additions in the fourth quarter to be roughly in the mid-30 thousands which is in line with the number of additions we saw in Q4 2013 largely due to the seasonal nature of the consumer education business which benefitted us in Q3.
Advertising revenues are currently expected to be down in the mid-single digits driven by print declines partially resulting from more challenging year-over-year comparisons.
Digital is expected to maintain positive growth in the high single digits.
Our advertising forecast embeds October performance which is our largest advertising revenue month of the quarter and actually of the whole year.
Due in part to the comparisons we’ve mentioned print advertising revenue in October is expected to decline approximately 10% while digital advertising revenue is expected to increase approximately 15% resulting in total advertising revenue for the month being down approximately 5%.
Other revenues are expected to grow more than 10% in the fourth quarter driven mainly by seasonality in our conference and e-commerce businesses.
Fourth-quarter operating costs and adjusted operating costs are expected to be roughly flat as we begin to cycle the ramp of investments around the Company’s strategic initiatives.
There are a couple of items I wanted to point out as we think about 2015 as they are likely to be very different from 2014.
We expect depreciation and amortization to decline to $60 to $65 million for full-year 2015 as we are sun setting a major enterprise software system.
We also expect interest expense to be lower in the range of $40 to $45 million for the year as we intend to repay with existing cash balances our 5 percent senior notes at maturity in March.
And with that we will be happy to take you questions.
Our first comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just two questions if I may.
The first one is just a follow-up on your commentary about the advertising outlook for the fourth quarter.
You gave some good color in terms of the comps and how October is trending but is there anything else we can sort of look into why you’re seeing such volatility from September to October? Is there certain categories that are not really came in September that surprised on the upside that maybe are not re-appearing in October? I guess any more color you could give would be very helpful.
Meredith perhaps you want to take Alexia’s question.
Sure I think we’re actually expecting to see a lot of the same trends from a category perspective continue from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
We had particularly strong comps last year in the energy sector and also in the studio entertainment sector in print that we don’t expect to see repeating.
So that’s led to some of our guidance.
And on the positive side the category is that performed very strongly in the third quarter in both print and digital we expect to perform strongly in the fourth quarter.
So luxury advocacy and financial were all very strong in print in Q3 and we expect they will be strong again in Q4 And the rebound you’re seeing in the digital advertising which has now been a few quarters you’ve seen some healthier performance in digital advertising.
Is it the less competitive nature of the exchanges or is it just you guys just executing better and therefore the seeing the benefits of that? I think it’s a combination of things and certainly part of it is sales execution.
I’m happy to say I think that the biggest drivers though are the launch and sort of positive growth in the pay post businesses as Mark alluded to.
We’ll finish the year with more than 30 partners and we’re coming up on renewing a number of the early partners which is very good and we expect that to continue.
We’ve also seen nice growth in mobile particularly mobile smartphone and in video.
And we are optimistic about that for the coming year.
And you asked about the exchanges.
I will say we’re taking a lot of positive steps in the programmatic space.
It’s still a small part of our business but we’ve done quite a bit of work this year on our technology stack and also on opening up new demand pools for automated buying and selling.
So we expect that to become a more meaningful part of the business in the coming year.
And just a last follow up on your commentary about the digital sub growth.
Is there big pricing differential between the consumer education through international subscribers versus your historic sort of core subscribers? There is.
The individually sold to education tends to be at about $7.50 basic rate relative to the lowest rate that we offer in our three basic package of $15 so there is.
I think some of the success we saw in the third quarter in the international markets I think first was just a more concentrated focus on that opportunity but also I think we’ve experimented with some pricing.
So I think broadly international will come at a slightly lower ARPU.
We still think it’s a healthy ARPU and a healthy market for us.
Thank you very much.
Alexia its Mark here.
If I can just one point back to print advertising.
It’s really just to say that when we talk about volatility and the difficulty with prediction I think the first quarter illustrates the challenge we’ve got about accurate prediction.
We had really two quite tough months in July and August followed by a remarkable turnaround in September.
So the warning we give about volatility and difficulty of prediction is very real and we’re seeing really quite abrupt and unpredictable switches which could be negative but also as they were in September can be very strongly positive as well.
So you can see a bounce back in November and December but October unfortunately is a bigger wait or not?  We give you a mid case prediction.
Okay.
Our visibility even into the latter part of November and our visibility into December is actually very low.
So the out turn could differ significantly from our prediction.
It did in the third quarter when we went on the earnings call for Q2 and gave our prediction it was our genuine mid-case prediction.
We couldn’t foresee that September would turn out to be so different.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bird with FBR.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
On the digital advertising side I was wondering if you could talk about how well you monetize advertising in mobile versus desktop.
And then on digital subscriptions was just curious if you’re doing anything new in terms of promotional activities or otherwise that might help to explain this recent uplift? Thank you.
I’ll take the mobile question.
Hi Bill.
We are starting to feel more optimistic about mobile advertising we have done a number of things to sort of face the market more effectively with an offering in mobile advertising.
So our branded content product was meant for mobile world.
We’ve also launched a number of new mobile ad units.
We’re experimenting with those units and the number of them that run on each page and how they get presented.
We launched a new ad format called Tap NYT which is a full-screen self-propelled tapable story.
So I would say mobile is still small for us.
I think we just crossed the – it’s more than 10% of the digital business but we still have a gap between consumer usage and advertising usage and we were eager to keep putting innovative product in the marketplace to move those two things much more close together and we feel pretty optimistic about it right now.
And Jim do you want to just touch on the issue of the mix of promotions on the digital subscription side? Yes.
I think behind your question Bill is what kind of drove Q2 performance to Q3 performance we had a much stronger quarter.
We regularly said that kind of the individual paid to education is a seasonal business.
We actually add the same number of subscribers digital subscribers around the education sector as we did in the first quarter.
So a big part of it is simply seasonal not that we’ve changed promotions around that part of the business.
But as I said earlier I think we acknowledge in the international markets we will have to take a different tact around promotion.
We’ve been a little bit more aggressive in lengthening out promotional periods in those markets and we’re going to continue to test what we think is the most effective programs in those markets.
I would add one other thing as well and this is more of a fourth quarter and into next year we will be introducing also foreign currency and we just rolled that out in the UK just recently.
And we have euros and some other currencies at the beginning of December don’t we? That’s right.
And then we’ll roll out Canada probably in the early part of 2015.
So we’ll continue to experiment in the international markets but we’re still getting some good healthy ARPU’s on those customers as well but we’re going to have to continue to experiment in those markets.
Those are new markets for us.
And just a follow-on for Meredith.
Meredith could you remind us what your mobile usage looks like? You mentioned in a little over 10% of advertising but how does the usage compare? Sure well when I got here little more than a year ago it was about one-third of all of our digital usage and now it’s more than half and climbing quickly.
Thank you.
So the user sessions in a day of time.
Great thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Yes good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Can you address in the relatively large severance charge you guys took in the quarter? What was the impact for your editorial staff your flagship newspaper? Was it like 7% 8% I’ve read elsewhere? Well let me say a couple things work first.
As an estimate we’re in the process of going through a voluntary program and it has been reported that the target is somewhere around 100 of about 1300 staff.
So I think that addresses your issue.
Craig it’s also worth adding that we expect targeted investment to continue and we expect some hiring in the newsroom.
We are investing in The New York Times Magazine.
We’re investing in audience development we expect to invest further in the mobile platforms in the newsroom.
So I think the net-net numbers in terms of the adjustment in the headcount in the newsroom are largely well south of that.
And as Jim said in his remarks a great care has been taken by Dean Baquet our Executive Editor his team to make sure we do reductions in such a way and we only accept those volunteers or buyer where we can be satisfied they’re not going to in any way lessen the quality of the journalism in the news report of the New York Times.
LLC</strong> And then also if I could just ask.
Can you just talk a little bit further if you would I know you’ve already hit on this but the monthly volatility in your ad revenue what do think was so unique in the month of September why it was so strong relative to two months before what you said October did please? Sure.
I’m happy to take that.
It’s interesting.
If you look back at the second half of last year it’s not that much different in terms of extreme volatility particularly in the print business.
September is unusual because it’s a very big month and it’s also luxury one of our not our largest category of advertising and we had a really really strong month for luxury in September.
So a big part of the comeback was around that.
There was also quite a bit going on in terms of dramatic world events in September which I would say that combined with strong sales execution on our advocacy team led to quite a bit of late breaking business in September.
And I think that will continue to explain some of the volatility.
Unfortunately Craig when we talk about volatility what we mean is unpredictable and to some extent inexplicable variation.
Yes.
Talk about it usefully.
Yes.
LLC</strong> And two just quick housekeeping questions if I could please.
For your print newspaper what was the daily and Sunday print circulation volume year-over-year percent change? And then also on the newsprint side what’s the percent change for average price versus usage please? On the print circulation our daily circulation was down 5.2% in Q3 year-over-year and Sunday was down 3.5%.
On raw materials prices have largely been flat.
We’ve had a slight decline but not a material decline and that’s largely based upon volume.
Within that volume issue however I would say newsprint the paper down and extra issue of T and more pages in T is doing quite well so there’s a bit of a mix of usage in there which is suppressed what historically been a higher decline on volume.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Janedis with Jeffries.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
And this is for Mark and Meredith.
You spoke to the 30 or so paid post clients.
Are they typically existing printer digital clients? Are they clustered around maybe a certain category or vertical? And how different is the buy in terms of length or the time of the buy? All good questions.
I’m happy to say as Mark said we’ll finish the year somewhere north of 30 partners in paid post and I’m happy to say they sort of are in virtually every category.
So we started in enterprise tech and I imagine that will continue to be a big growth area for us but we’ve seen a paid post from almost every major sector we play in and quite pleasantly we’ve had a number of luxury paid posts.
In terms of our data the same advertisers that are otherwise running with us the answer is broadly yes though I will say paid posts have helped us to win some new pieces of business that we might not otherwise have gotten and in the case where it is an advertiser who is already spending with the New York Times often they’re adding to what they’re spending in adding paid post program.
I think you also asked about links.
Most of the programs are sort of based on either an individual storyline or a package of stories.
So they tend to run across a quarter or a bit longer.
And as I mentioned in the first question I answered we are coming up on a number of renewals and I’m happy to see that a number of the partners are coming back and saying I’m ready for my next story or series of stories.
I mean our clients for paid posts are clients who have got something significant and sometimes complex to convey.
Yeah.
They are after innovation particularly multimedia innovation in content.
They’re very interested in the amplification of these PCs through social.
So primary appearance on our digital assets amplification and I have to say I think so far the list of clients is a dream list really.
Exactly the kind of broad mixture of prestigious large ambitious players that you want to see with a new business.
We’re very excited about attracting this business.
That’s right.
And we’re working very very hard to keep the quality of the story telling at highest possible into Mark’s point kind of using all of the multimedia assets that the has at its disposal to tell a great story.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then just going back to the subscribers I think back in 2012 you spoke to the benefit from the election on digital subs.
Are you seeing anything similar this year? I know it’s obviously not presidential but any kind of trend you can go back to 2012 and speak to?  As of right now we’re not predicting a huge bump around that.
I think what we will see though as we often see is around the holidays doing some special promotions as we did last year.
We expect to do that again this year.
And I think it will be a key event for us in the fourth quarter.
All right Thanks.
One last one.
Just back to advertising for a second.
I know it’s early.
You made the comment the fourth quarter is so different from 3Q in that the comp gets a lot easier versus harder but is there any kind of early read on retail going into the holidays?  It’s a good question.
I will say in general our luxury business was performed quite well on both platforms thus far in the second half of the year and we continue to feel pretty optimistic about that and a lot of our retail business is in fact luxury business.
In general the sort of broader retail business continues to be strong although the nature of what our largest true retail partners are doing with us is changing.
And within luxury I think it would be fair to say that we are seeing strength in the U.S.
Yes.
And some weakness in the international newspaper.
Yes that actually… Which we associate with the economic – the current economic tribulations in the euro zone and some relative softening and demand in Asia as well.
Yes.
Right.
So tied to world events but we’re kind of recouping whatever we’re missing in Europe and Asia.
It’s coming in this country yes.
That’s right.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from line of Douglas Arthur with Evercore.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks.
Two questions.
Going back to the ARPU question.
You added – your digital ads were up about 20% year-over-year.
Your total base 75 is up 20%.
Your revenues are running up 13% and obviously you talked about the education international price differences.
Are we – as you go into new markets get more clear on how you’re going to do the lower price product on a web platform are we likely to see that gap grow over time between sub ads and revenues or do think you’ll hit a balance at some point? That’s question one.
I’ll take a shot at that.
Look our ARPUs are down year-over-year.
I think that’s the nature of the business we are in.
We have entered lower priced products.
We’ve entered new markets.
As I said education does come into ARPU that is lower than a basic rate.
But ARPUs year-over-year are not down dramatically.
I would say ARPUs are down they’re still above by the way on average our basic $15 bundle.
So you could do the math around what we’ve given but you’ll end up with an ARPU of plus $15.
That number I would say year over year is down maybe 5%.
That’s not a tremendous change but I think there could be some downward move.
I think that will largely depend upon where we come out with these new products and how successful we are attacking this lower priced opportunity which we still think exists and we’re working hard to refine our strategy around lower price.
Okay.
And thanks for that.
Then the second question is a technical question.
Jim if you look at the severance and the post – the pension cost in the quarter how do you adjust between production cost and SG&amp;A on those two numbers? Can you kind of weight that? On severance it’s entirely in the SG&amp;A line.
On the retirement costs it’s harder to do.
It follows salary and it depends on where it is.
I just don’t have that information.
Okay.
Severance is all on that one line.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Kannan Venkateshwar from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Just a couple of questions.
The first is on – obviously there’s been a big focus on investments over the course of this year a new product and so on but bulk of your digital growth on the circulation side is still coming from core.
So at what point do you expect that to start changing? And secondly when you think about big box I think one of the comments Meredith you made earlier was these promotions tend to run over a quarter and so on.
So as these become a bigger proportion of your digital advertising should we expect more stability when it comes to your digital advertising stream? Thanks.
It’s a good question and I would say broadly the answer is yes.
So although we are still I caution everybody we are still in very early days in the branded content business.
I think the whole market is an early days in the branded content business.
We are as I said earlier beginning to see a number of our partners renew.
Carry on their story into the next phase the next iteration and the long game we are playing is to become sort of a regular place for a partner to initiate really interesting value added storytelling where the brand is a sub plot and there’s some very interesting storyline or plot that make sense to share on and beyond the New York Times.
And that is ultimately meant to be a more sustainable thing.
Let me high level go at the first question.
I want to say first of all that we’re very happy to see continued growth in our core.
And the fact the core will play a large part new products are in the mix as well.
Core is going to play a large part in a subscriber count for 2014 which we believe will be more net new ads as I said 2014 which we believe will be more net new ads as in 2013 I think is a cause for confidence rather than the opposite.
We are focused both at NYT Now on the Apple iOS platform and on cooking more generally both iPad and web.
In particular in growing impact awareness and usage we have some advertising already on both NYT Now and on cooking.
So we already seeing monetization from both and we’ve got NYT Now and Premier subscriptions.
I think it’s fair to say that we see significant subscription revenues as taking some time.
We want to do – this is not unfamiliar in the digital space we want to focus on getting these products out there widely use widely valued rather than trying to move swiftly to a big focus on subscription revenue.
We’re pretty happy with the fact that we’ve got these new products in flight.
We took a tough decision I think the right decision in NYT’s opinion but the others in flight and growing that audience and growing awareness.
Meanwhile we have a set of core offers which are themselves continuing to grow.
Do you want to add to that Jim? All said I don’t.
Okay.
And one follow-up.
I mean earlier in the year I think you had mentioned video as an opportunity.
We’ve not heard much about that over the last couple of quarters.
I just wanted to get some update on what’s happening on that front.
Sure it remains small because it depends on what we’re doing.
There tends to be quite a lot of talk about on these calls.
I’m very excited about what’s happening in video the attractive consumption might be the improved diversity and quality of video offering and again we’ve been seeing some very nice positive deltas in terms of selling video advertising.
Meredith why don’t you talk?  I would agree with that.
We had a big move this week in the expansion of our video player placement presence on the home page which we think will make a meaningful difference.
So we continue to see stream growth and we are continuing to grow the number of shows that are both interesting to consumers and also commercially relevant for sponsorship.
So we as Mark said it’s a small base but we’re optimistic about the future growth prospects.
And it’s worth saying taking together smartphone tablet and video…  Yes.
Is now becoming a very significant part of our digital advertising.
Right.
Taken together it’s a significant reason why we turned what was a revenue stream which was in slight decline into a revenue stream which is now growing pretty healthily.
Thank you.
Your last question comes from the line of Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
Your line is open.
I just had a odd question.
If you look at the decline in trend and the gain in digital is it the same people? Are you getting any new – measure whether it’s new audience or the people that print and just go to digital and so your audience is maybe not growing much? I think it’s a really interesting question but it’s worth remembering the overall digital audience is a vast vast audience 60 million people probably touch us one way or another every month in America and around the world on a different digital platform.
So we have a very very very big digital much of which – some of which is very engaged much of which are relatively light users.
Our print users many many of them the majority of them authenticate for digital and use digital as well.
There’s no question that some of our new products NYT Now and cooking are both examples are definitely reaching people who are not currently regular users of the Times.
Many of the subscribers of NYT Now are people who never subscribed to the Times before.
And certainly one of the benefits of having a broader portfolio of products is you can reach out beyond your heartland audiences.
We’re certainly internationally where we said we’re pleased with progress on international digital subscriptions.
Again we are gaining people who’ve never paid for the Time before.
And yes in simple terms the overall launch of the pay model means that notwithstanding some declines on the print side we have more paying customers than we ever had before.
So we are growing our paying customers.
We have an enormous digital audience.
We are finding new audiences although it may be possible that some print subscribers who cease to read the physical newspaper don’t become digital subscribers.
Our general experience is once people become engaged with and come to rely on the New York Times they go with the habit for life.
The TV people talk in terms of audience have you ever tried to measure your audience if there is such a thing? Well.
I mean what we currently do is and you’d have seen some AIIM numbers headline numbers for the last half year came out early this week is we have a number of different as it were platform-specific measures ComScore for example in digital.
We don’t have that I’m aware of a sophisticated multi-platform metric.
We don’t have a single master metric.
Though we’re very focused on questions like engagement defined by session time and we do track very closely how many minutes a day good reader spends on average different kinds of reader the same with web the same with smartphones and so forth.
So we do track engagement and we do – although there is no industry standard I’m aware of for this we do also try and track usage from platform to platform exactly on the lines of your first question prompted.
Your ad rates are based on circulation both digital and print not audience I guess? Broadly yes.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks.
As there are no further questions I will turn call back over to the presenters for closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us this morning and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Thanks for the caller.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Mike and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The New York Times Company Q4 and Full Year 2015 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Harlan Toplitzky Executive Director of Financial Planning and Analysis.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to The New York Times Company's fourth quarter and full-year 2015 earnings conference call.
On the call today we have Mark Thompson President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Follo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Meredith Kopit Levien Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that management will make forward-looking statements during the course of this call and our actual results could differ materially.
Some of the risks and uncertainties that could impact our business are included in our 2014 10-K.
In addition our presentation will include non-GAAP financial measures and we have provided reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release which is available on our website at investors.nytco.com.
With that I turn the call over to Mark Thompson.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Harlan and good morning everyone.
Well as you can see from the results we released this morning we had a strong quarter and an encouraging 2015 and we begin 2016 with high hopes for the future.
Let me deal first with the quarter briefly review the past year as a whole and then turn to 2016 and beyond.
In Q4 2015 we saw adjusted operating profit of $118 million a 13% increase versus the prior year driven by solid growth in digital advertising and consumer revenues as well as good cost management.
We had another quarter of strong net gains in digital-only subscriber numbers with an additional net 53 000 subscribers.
It was the biggest quarterly addition for three years and represented a 20% growth in subscriber numbers compared with the same quarter in 2014.
Continued improvement in retention and growth of international subscribers and the success of target pricing to specific market segments like college students all helped us to maintain momentum.
We believe our digital-pay model has great potential and that is being born out in the acceleration we're seeing in our year-over-year subscriber growth numbers as well as the related revenue growth.
In our last earnings call we predicted a return to revenue growth for digital advertising in the fourth quarter and we achieved that.
Indeed we did somewhat better than we predicted posting an 11% year-over-year digital advertising revenue increase in Q4.
Rapid growth in mobile ad revenue was an important factor as well as intense demand for the production and distribution of branded content.
Important also was the November launch of the New York Times VR app not to mention the distribution of more than 1 million Google Cardboard virtual reality viewing devices to our subscribers.
Total revenues for the quarter were flat at $445 million with strong digital performance offsetting a moderate print advertising decline as well as a slight decline in print circulation revenue.
Significant costs control also accounts for the substantial increase in profitability.
Let me now consider 2015 as a whole.
In the fall we published our path forward a short statement of our strategic ambitions for the coming years.
Central to those ambitions is our determination to double our pure-play digital revenue over the next five years.
And it was very encouraging to see tangible steps towards that target in 2015.
During the summer we passed the 1 million digital-only subscriber mark and we ended 2015 with 1.1 million digital subscribers.
We expect to end 2016 with more than a million and a quarter digital-only subscribers.
The digital advertising market is undergoing profound change and we're not immune to its volatility but we believe that our strategic approach to rapidly build out new high-value propositions for marketers in branded content mobile video and VR is paying off with strong growth in three out of four quarters.
We will continue to invest in advanced storing technology and talent in mobile ad innovation and in a broad range of services to help advertisers reach their target audiences on our own assets and also across other platforms.
T Brand Studio is a particular success story with no fewer than 120 campaigns launched for 70 advertisers since we started the business in January 2014 just two years ago.
We don't expect digital advertising revenue growth associated with these new growth areas to be even across the year.
But we are confident that we have the talent and the drivers in place to make 2016 a year of strong digital advertising growth.
Print advertising continues to vary unexpectedly month-to-month but the significant pause we saw in the first half of the year moderated somewhat in the second half.
As you will hear so far at least that more moderate picture is extending into early 2016.
Print circulation revenue followed a more predictable pattern with home delivery price increases compensating for most but not quite all of the volume declines both in home delivery and single-copy sales.
Adjusted operating profit for the year was up to $289 million compared to $256 million for 2014 due to lower costs and strong digital revenue growth.
I might add that 2015 was a very strong year for Times' journalism with exceptional work in international news where our continued investment in global news gathering enabled us to cover stories like the refugee crisis and the Paris attacks with more depth and focus than any other news provider as well as investigations and features.
I think it's also worth noting the exceptional and innovative coverage of Tuesday's Iowa caucuses.
We saw traffic totals in the top 1% of all traffic days in the history of The New York Times and very high levels of engagement including the highest number of readers we've ever had on a live blog during the 24-hour period.
The presentation of the story on smartphone complete with animating infographics broke new ground.
So what are our plans for 2016? Our path forward calls for us to reach out to new audiences at home and abroad to substantially grow the number of the most engaged users to further grow both our digital circulation and advertising businesses to develop our mobile video and branded content businesses and to exploit other B2B and B2C opportunities.
Over the course of 2016 therefore we expect to invest judiciously in growth to develop content for targeted international audiences and to market the Times more effectively to them to grow our multimedia capabilities in video VR and audio to further build out T Brand Studio and to extend the package of services we offer our advertising partners as well as other initiatives.
But one of our achievements in recent years has been to combine investment in digital growth with a tight grip on costs and we're still determined to focus on both.
Over the coming months we will take a close look at our existing cost base even as we make targeted investments in our digital future.
We know that success was dependent on the quality of journalism we offer our users here and around the world and we must maintain that quality.
Nonetheless we believe that alongside investment in our newsroom and elsewhere there is scope for further structural savings across our cost base.
Deep into its digital transition The New York Times Company unlike many of its rivals remains a very profitable company and we're determined to grow that profitability just as we did in 2015.
Although in 2016 we expect our investment in digital will put downward pressure on operating profit we are committed to returning to operating profit growth as soon as we can.
In summary I see 2016 as an investment year building on our strategy and some of the key successes of 2015.
I see it as a year of continued transformation of the business to meet the changing needs of our customers and a changing market.
And I see it as a year in which we take the necessary steps both to double our digital revenue over the next five years and to grow the company's profitability in the long-term.
But now let me hand over to Jim.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark said we closed 2015 with a solid fourth quarter highlighted by strong growth in profitability driven by solid digital consumer and advertising performance and good cost control.
Adjusted operating profit rose 13% in the quarter to $118 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.37 in the fourth quarter compared to $0.26 in the prior year.
We reported GAAP operating profit of approximately $88 million compared to $62 million in the same period of 2014.
Overall revenues were flat in the quarter with strong digital revenue growth offset by weakness in print revenues.
For the full year adjusted operating profit also grew 13% to $289 million while operating profit grew 49% to $137 million on revenues that were down less than 1% or $9 million.
Circulation revenues increased approximately 1% in the quarter with digital-only subscription revenue growth more than offsetting print declines.
Digital-only subscription revenues were approximately $50 million in the quarter an increase of 13% from the same quarter in 2014.
On the print circulation side we benefited from January 2015's home delivery price increase although higher revenue associated with the new rates was outweighed by overall print volume declines.
The print decline was driven by lower single-copy revenues.
We again implemented a home delivery price increase at the beginning of the first quarter of 2016 at a rate similar to recent annual price increases.
Advertising revenues were down 1% in the quarter with digital revenue growing 11% and print advertising declining 7%.
The digital advertising performance was particularly encouraging given the tough year-over-year comparisons where digital advertising grew 19% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Digital advertising reflected strong growth in mobile branded content and creative services revenue.
Revenues from our initial slate of VR films in the quarter also contributed to growth.
Mobile revenues continued to grow at a rapid rate versus 2014 up 72% in Q4 and 58% for the full-year and represented approximately 22% of total digital advertising revenues in the quarter.
The lower print advertising revenue was due to declines in the New York Times and more significant declines in the International New York Times.
In the New York Times luxury media travel real estate and home furnishing categories all performed well in the quarter.
While entertainment financial technology and telecom advertising were weak.
The decline in the International New York Times was mainly driven by a decline in the luxury category and foreign currency exchange rates also played a part in that decline.
As usual we experienced significant month-to-month volatility in advertising revenues.
Our quarterly performance strengthened as the quarter progressed as illustrated by the fact that overall advertising was down 9% in October flat in November and up 7% in December.
And finally on the revenue side our revenues are flat in the quarter.
That category includes NYT Live which is our live events business our Crossword product building rental income digital archives and others.
Digital archives and building rental income grew in the quarter but were offset by declines in NYT Live and our retail store.
The decline in NYT Live was in part due to the postponement of our luxury conference in Paris.
Operating costs decreased again in the fourth quarter by nearly $30 million overall while adjusted operating costs declined $14 million or 4%.
Operating costs decline in the quarter mainly due to print production and distribution efficiencies declines in severance depreciation amortization and raw material costs as well as lower marketing and promotion benefits and non-operating retirement costs.
Our focus on reducing legacy cost remains a top priority while at the same time we'll continue to invest in growing our digital revenues.
Our non-operating retirement costs were down in the quarter to $7.5 million from $11.2 million in the prior year due to both lower pension interest expense and retiree medical costs.
Moving to the balance sheet our cash and marketable securities balances was $905 million and our total cash position exceeds debt and capital lease obligations by approximately $473 million.
While our qualified pension obligations declined at year end due to a rise in discount rates from prior year plan asset performance trailed our expectations.
Thus our unfunded qualified pension obligations ended the year roughly flat with the prior year at $273 million.
The company has repurchased approximately $6.5 million Class A shares for $83 million to date as of February 2 under our previously announced $101 million share repurchase authorization.
And let me conclude with our outlook for the first quarter of 2016.
Circulation revenues are expected to increase at a rate similar to the fourth quarter trend driven by the benefit of our digital subscription revenue growth partially offset by lower print circulation revenues.
Despite the impact of the home delivery price increase.
We expect the total number of net digital subscription additions to be about 50 000 in the first quarter.
Overall advertising revenues are expected to be down between 2% and 4% with digital advertising revenue growing in the mid-single digits.
Other revenues are expected to increase approximately 10% and first quarter operating costs and adjusted operating costs are expected to increase in the low-single digits.
Due primarily to a change we're making in calculating interest costs on our legacy pension obligations.
We expect non-operating retirement costs to decline by about $4 million in the first quarter to $5 million.
And as Mark stated in his remarks as we look out for the full year we expect adjusted operating costs will increase in the low to mid-single digits as we invest in certain areas of the business that we believe we can grow over time.
We'll continue to maintain the strong cost discipline that we've exhibited in the past but are willing to invest in areas of growth.
And with that we'd like to open it up for questions.
Your first question is from William Bird from FBR Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Mark I was wondering if you could talk a bit about where you're focusing your digital investments in 2016.
And maybe if you could talk specifically about what you're doing in the areas of digital video and marketer insights? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Bill.
I don't want to add much to what I said in my remarks really.
But I expect investment both in as it were conventional video.
We have a great new leader of our video efforts in Alex MacCallum at the Times.
And I expect to invest more in conventional video.
We also want to back up the success we had in Q4 2015 with the launch of VR app and the delivery of more than a million Google Cardboard viewers to our subscribers with more investment in VR capability.
And on the marketer side I might just hand over briefly to Meredith but we believe we've got a really rapidly growing business in T Brand Studio and we think that the range of services that we can offer as you know we're – in T Brand Studio we're making content for advertising partners.
We think the range of services we can offer those partners could be broader than it currently is and we'll be investing in that.
But Meredith do you want to talk about...
Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...about the marketer side.
Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Good morning.
I think Mark actually just headlined it very well.
I'll say we had a very good year in T Brand Studio and we're doing very well in helping marketers develop the right creative.
We're also seeing quite a bit of demand for distribution of that creative and we're building out our portfolio services to be able to help them do that.
We're building out our sort of capability and expertise at making the branded content at the point of discovery richer and more compelling and I would say we're going to keep investing in people and technology capabilities around sort of advanced storytelling formats.
So VR is one of them but there are many others.
And separately could you talk about your current perspective on your plans for utilizing your growing cash balance? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jim do you want to tackle that? Yeah.
I will.
Bill we're still executing under our share authorization program.
And as I've said we're probably a little bit more than $80 million into that.
So we'll continue to evaluate that but we did say when we put that in place we said that was kind of a one-off issue where we would be essentially offsetting the dilution from a warrant exercised earlier partly but we'll continue to explore that.
We'll continue to be mindful of our pension obligations as well and I hope to give you an update on that as well those issues we hope to take care of themselves through interest rate.
That doesn't really happening at least in the short term.
We feel reasonably good about where we are from a dividend point of view and the amount of cash that we generate annually being paid out in a form of dividend.
So we'll continue to watch it but right now we feel like the balance sheet is a good place.
It gives us a lot of flexibility to be able to invest where we need to.
But that will change over time.
Obviously pension obligations we hope will settle themselves and that might free up some of our thinking there.
But right now we feel pretty good where we sit from the balance sheet point of view.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Thank you.
If I could just dig in a little bit further on the advertising trends I know it's always very volatile and we shouldn't maybe read too much into it but it does look like trends have been better both in print and in digital in the recent quarters.
I guess are there any changes that you're seeing ahead? I mean could we be bumping up close to the bottom maybe on the print side? And on the digital side I know you had a lot of internal changes which clearly are having some positive results there.
Can those be – can we see incremental growth I guess still coming from those changes ahead on the digital side? Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean.
I think – good morning Alexia.
I think a lot of what we think is embedded at least for the next quarter and the guidance that Jim shared.
But I'll say two things.
One is I think – we all think that the character of the ad business is fundamentally changing.
It used to be a business that was highly highly dependent on display and not changing.
And that's making for what feels like more volatility or less certainties for month-to-month.
But the business now is much more about branded content and content services in mobile and video and sort of what I just refer to as kind of advanced storytelling.
And as a result I think that means bigger more complex partnerships with marketers and often take a while to get up and off the ground.
So all a way of saying we have a fair amount of optimism about our continued growth in the areas that we've been saying we have been growing which are video branded content mobile and services around branded content.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And if I can just say in particular one news I'm excited about is the work we're doing in mobile.
I think the way we're deploying our journalism on smartphone the stronger visual impact of what we're doing the launch of new ad units in mobile some of the numbers we're seeing around engagement on mobile and the straightforward dramatic growth of mobile as a percentage of our digital advertising all feels very encouraging.
And that business of – can you begin to really drive revenue from mobile alongside the levels of consumption from mobile I think we made – I would say dramatic gains across 2015.
And I think we look set fair for 2016 in mobile as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just one quick follow-up if I may.
I apologize if I missed this.
But the impressive growth in the digital pay subs we saw in the quarter was there anything unique in the composition of those new subscribers in terms of what type of subscribers they were? Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> I think we're continuing to see success where you've sort of heard us talk about it all year.
So education individual subscription International – International is actually growing at a pretty fast clip – and also B2B.
So both education B2B and corporate subscriptions.
We're seeing growth in all of those areas and we expect those to be the areas of growth for next year.
I'll also say I think we're retaining better.
So some of the new tactics we've deployed around retention are really starting to take root and you'll see that play out across the next few quarters.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from Craig Huber from Huber Research Partners.
Yes hi.
Thank you.
I got a few housekeeping questions first if I could.
Pension what is your outlook here for potential contributions to the pension this new year? Craig we are well ahead of required funding government-mandated funding for many years – not many years I should say several years.
So I think we still hold that interest rates – we'll hold out to see where interest rates go over time.
So we don't see any real immediate need to be more aggressive on funding.
There are some required smaller contributions that are a result of some contractual obligations.
Those are relatively small.
And so our outlook for the year should be relatively small but no discretionary contributions that's our current posture.
Okay.
Then also I want to ask you for a daily and Sunday circulation print volume what were those percentages changes in the quarter year-over-year please? Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> Q4 daily down 6.9% and Sunday 4.4%.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
Then also newsprint I'm curious what the average percent change there was for price and also consumption please in the quarter? I think the total raw material number I think in Q4 was down about 4 million.
I think three quarters of that was price and one quarter was volume related.
I will say that newsprint price has been kind of declining really all throughout 2015.
We think that bottom has been hit and some early signs of prices potentially rising next year.
There's been some small unannounced price increases.
We'll see where that goes.
But I think that the idea that the prices might continue to climb we don't think is likely to happen.
Also I just want to finish up here with some – a couple questions on costs.
In the fourth quarter it seemed like your costs were meaningfully better than you guys were looking for.
I wonder what that change was as the quarter played out? And also for this new year I make it cost adjustment up (26:10) I guess low to mid-single digits.
If you take out the digital investments there what would that be please? Well we haven't given – we're not going to get to that level of granularity.
The one thing I would say is we continue to both in – all throughout 2015 and then into 2016 we continue to take out costs out of legacy business.
That will continue.
I said – I mentioned that newsprint price alone was a pretty big help in 2015.
It will be a help in 2016 because we're still beginning – in the early part of the year we're still be comping against some lower prices but prices that are likely to be higher as we enter the back half of the year.
So I think – so I'm going to break that out but I will say that there was a similar trend that occurred this year too which is pretty strong control on the legacy side pretty good investment on kind of the advertising technology marketing side.
We think those likely continue but I don't want to be more precise than that.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Only thing we might add is that 2016 sees a couple of exceptional news events the Olympic Games the Presidential election which have got as we're one off one costs that recur once every four years but not every year.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question is from John Janedis from Jefferies.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Maybe this one's for Meredith or Mark.
But you've highlighted timing in comps and the digital advertising segment and expanded the offerings to advertisers.
I was wondering given the reported mobile growth from the larger pure-play companies there is that narrative that budgets are further shifting from print to mobile.
I was hoping you could comment on that given your unique position as a national leader in print and then also with a large digital and growing mobile business.
Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> Hi there.
I will say I think Mark talked about the level to which mobile grew as a percentage of advertising.
So I think in the fourth quarter it was 22% of our advertising and most of that growth is on the smartphone specifically.
So we're very optimistic about that continuing.
What I'll say is we're learning quite a bit from what's going well in mobile on the direct sales side with our Mobile Moments product and our Flex Frame ad product and we're going to translate a fair amount of that back into Web display.
So I think we have some – while that business is sort of broadly softening.
I think we have some optimism around the future there.
We treat it more like mobile.
And I think Jim talked about print and our thoughts on sort of print are already embedded in the guidance.
But there are plenty of categories that remain quite strong in print luxury being the biggest one for us.
And we still have a fair amount of optimism there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And some of the transition is from desktop digital to mobile rather than from print to mobile.
Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's the other thing.
Yes.
So you think the majority then comes from display? Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> Say that again.
I'm sorry.
Do you think the majority then of that growth is coming – meaning a shift from display or particularly where is that budget coming from? Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> Desktop display to smartphone versus print to smartphone.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then maybe Jim just a quick follow-up in terms of that investment in digital.
I mean I don't know if you want to give the exact number but is it fair to say backing in the numbers from Q1 that you're looking maybe a low to maybe mid-tens of millions investment this year? Well low- to mid-single digit on our base would put you in that – that's as good as the numbers I can give off a base of whatever numbers 3.3 so (29:53).
Yeah.
So that's the guidance we're giving.
It's a reasonable range.
I think we're going to have to be adaptable as we go and we will.
We'll leave ourselves some room to experiment and to test a few things.
So I don't want to be as precise...
Yeah.
...as the number that I've given already.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think I mean I want to say our posture on investment is to experiment and back success and feed money in as we see success.
So I believe we should remain fairly flexible about the volume of investment through the year.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from Doug Arthur from Huber Research Partners.
Yes two questions.
Meredith you broke out mobile as 22% of digital.
Can you update us on video as a percent of total? I think in the third quarter you said less than 10% and native.
And then the second question to Mark I mean Mark obviously we've talked a lot here on this call about costs and digital investment.
You sort of implied in your remarks that this 2016 is a transition year it's an investment year and that you would resume operating profit growth once the investment's done.
Then you also talked about structural cost cuts in the legacy business.
I'm wondering if you could just clarify your outlook on operating profit growth generally speaking for 2016.
Thanks.
Chief Revenue Officer</span></strong> Let me go first.
Hi there.
So video is still a fairly small percentage of our overall business which I think we've said small but growing.
So video and VR were strong for us in the fourth quarter again on a small base but we do expect that to grow.
Branded content is becoming and was in the fourth quarter a much more meaningful percentage of the business and I'll say that a fair amount of that was also video driven so branded content programs that had video production as a meaningful part of what we were doing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
And if I can Doug – I mean as I said in my remarks Doug we're committed to growing profitability over time.
2016 I think you correctly identified as a transitional year.
And as Jim said we see operating costs going up somewhat principally because of investment.
But we're committed to margin protection and growing profitability over time.
Over 2016 we're going to look hard at the cost base.
We've had success in recent years.
And indeed in the quarter we're talking about Q4 2015 in containing our costs.
We believe there is scope for structural reduction in our costs base.
We're going to explore that plan out and then implement it.
And I'm not going to give you a precise timing on the transition but my expectation is certainly as we go into 2017 that we will be looking to move to growth in EBITDA and growing profitability once again.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will the turn the call back over to you Harlan Toplitzky for closing comments.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.