Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Realty Income First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday April 28 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tom Lewis CEO of Realty Income.
Go ahead sir.
Thank you Joe.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the call.
And obviously our purpose is to review our operations during the first quarter of 2011.
And as always I’m obligated to say that during this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law and the company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in the forward-looking statements and we’ll disclose in greater detail on the company’s Form 10-Q the factors that may cause such differences.
And as we normally do Paul Meurer our CFO will start this off and walk through our numbers.
Thanks Tom.
As usual I’ll provide some comments and brief highlights of our financial results for the quarter starting with the income statement.
And our total revenue increased 18.4% to $97.8 million this quarter versus $82.6 million during the first quarter of 2010.
Obviously this reflected the significant amount of new acquisitions over the past year as well as some positive same-store rent increases for the quarterly period of 1.1%.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased by almost $3.8 million in a comparative quarterly period as depreciation expense obviously has increased as our property portfolio continues to grow.
Interest expense increased by just over $3.7 million and this increase was due to the $250 million of senior notes due 2021 which we’ve issued in June of last year.
On a related note our coverage ratios both improved since last quarter with interest coverage now at 3.5 times and fixed charge coverage now at 2.8 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the first quarter was $7 870 000 as we’ve mentioned over the past couple of quarters the increase in G&amp;A recently is due largely to recent hiring in our acquisitions and research department.
Our G&amp;A expense has increased as our acquisition activity has increased and as we have invested in new personnel for future growth.
Furthermore though this quarters G&amp;A was also impacted by the expensing of $371 000 of acquisitions due diligence cost mostly related to the large portfolio acquisition that we announced last month.
Our current projection for G&amp;A for 2011 is approximately $29 million which will represent less than 7% of our total revenue.
Property expenses were $1 983 000 for the quarter.
And of course these expenses are primarily associated with the taxes maintenance and insurance expenses which we are responsible for on properties available for lease.
Our current estimate for 2011 is approximately $7 million for property expenses.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the company.
They were $350 000 during the quarter.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $396 000.
Real estate acquired for resale refers to the operations of Crest Net Lease our subsidiary that acquires and resells properties.
Crest did not acquire or sell any properties in the quarter and overall contributed income from discontinued operations of $222 000.
Real estate held-for-investment refers to property sales by realty income from our existing core portfolio.
We sold three properties during the first quarter resulting overall in income of approximately $174 000.
These property sales gains are not included in our FFO or in the calculation of our AFFO.
Preferred stock cash dividends remained at $6.1 million for the quarter and net income available to common stock holders increased to approximately $29.9 million for the quarter.
Net income or funds from operations or FFO increased 21.2% to $56.6 million for the quarter.
On a per share basis FFO increased 6.7% to $0.48 for the quarter.
Adjusted funds from operation or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividend was a penny higher at $0.49 per share for the quarter.
Our AFFO is usually higher than our FFO because our capital expenditures are fairly low and we have minimal straight line rent in our portfolio.
We increased our cash monthly dividend again this quarter.
We have increased the dividend 54 consecutive quarters and 61 times overall since we went public 15.5 years ago.
And our dividend payout ratio has now continued to decrease for the quarter was 90% of our FFO and about 88% of our AFFO.
Turning to the balance sheet we have continued to maintain a very conservative and safe capital structure.
Our current debt to total market capitalization is only 25% and our prepared stock outstanding represents just 5% of our capital structure.
In March we successfully raised $300 million of new common equity in order to finance new property acquisitions.
Since many of these acquisition did not close in the first quarter.
We had $130 million of cash on hand at March 31st.
We also have zero borrowings on a $425 million credit facility and we had no debt maturities until 2013.
So in summary we currently have excellent liquidity and our overall balance sheet remains very healthy and safe.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tom who’ll give you a little bit more background on these results.
Thanks Paul.
I’ll go through each segment of the business and start with the portfolio.
Obviously the portfolio continue to perform well during the quarter and kind of all across the board operations continued to improve which we had over the last few quarters.
There is no significant tenant issues that arose during the quarter and we have none on our radar and at the end of the quarter relative to the larger tenant about 15 tenants in the portfolio accounted to about 53.8% revenue and that’s down 80 basis points from last quarter primarily as a function of some new acquisitions and new revenue and the average cash flow coverage of store level for the 15 tenants remains fairly high at a little over 2.3 times it’s about 2.33 so very healthy.
Occupancy at the end of the quarter as you saw on the release was 96.8% we had 81 properties available for lease out of the 2519 in the portfolio that’s up 20 basis points from last quarter and about 10 basis points from where we were a year ago and very light activity in portfolio management but consistent we had 10 new vacancies which was one less from last quarter and we at least sold 13 properties and during the quarter we added to the property portfolio and that’s the reason for the uptick in occupancy.
And still a 96.8 up each quarter for the last few quarters as we expected but pretty good results.
Same store rents are starting to accelerate a bit they were up 1.1% during the quarter they were up 1% in the fourth quarter and 0.3% in the third quarter and we think we’ll see those continue to increase as the year goes on and move it a modest pace but positive.
And if you look basically where the same store rent came from we have four of our industries that have declining same-store rent each of which were pretty modest and that was in restaurant side of service general merchandise and drug stores and the core declines were only about $333 000 in rent for the quarter.
Three of the industries have flat same-store rents and then there were 22 that saw same-store rent increases about half of that came from our tenants and the theater business but we also had decent increases from the RB dealerships we have in the portfolio which obviously is very nice to see coming off in the last couple of years as their business has improved.
And then in child day care and sea stores the balance was pretty small.
But altogether the 22 industries had about $1.2 million in increases.
And so if you net that out you get to about $850 000 in same-store rent.
We continue to sees gains in the same-store rents this year and that’s been going on now for several quarters.
And it’s just kind of looking into this quarter.
Once again we think we’ll see something similar when we report next quarter.
We continue to be well diversified.
If you look at the 2 519 properties we added we’re up 23 in the count from last quarter that’s in 31 different industries with a 125 multiple unit tenants in the 49 states.
And our industry exposures remained well diversified.
Convenient stores now have jumped to our largest in the portfolio at about 19.9% of rent we obviously like that industry.
Restaurants is now second and continues to come down that was at 18.9% and that’s down about 300 basis points from a year ago and we think that we will continue to decline modestly.
After that it jumps all the way down to theaters at 8.1% and it’s fairly well diversified.
As you see in the report the largest tenant is the Diageo at about 5.7%.
Second is AMC at 5.3 and again the 15 largest are about 53.8% a rent when you get through the 15th largest tenant you are down to about 2.2% a rent and while not in the release when you get to tenant number 28 everybody else on the portfolio is below 1% of the rent and as we add more acquisitions here we think those percentages will continue to decline and we will have a more diversification pretty much regardless of how you look at it.
From a geographic standpoint the one state that’s over 10% is California.
However over half of that is Diageo and if you look at the business that we have there that is well centered out of California most of the revenue is booked on a national basis and only about half of the exposure really comes from California and then it drops to Texas at 8.9 and Florida at 7.5 those are obviously both very large states.
Average remaining lease term in the portfolio is at a 11.5 years that’s up a little bit from last quarter and a function of acquisition and we think that will continue to increase as we buy more things this year.
Overall then I think the portfolio is very healthy and just modest improvements continues here coming out of kind of a drop last summer.
Moving on to acquisitions during the first quarter we were very active we bought 26 properties for a $150 million.
Lease yields or cap rates right at about 7.9% lease term 16 little over 16.5 years and the 26 properties that we brought were leased to six different tenants in five different industries and as we mentioned in the release about a 130 of the $150 million was part of the transaction that we announced earlier in the quarter that will close over a couple of three quarters.
And if we look at this now after completing the balance of the $544 million over the next couple of quarters that will get us to about $565 million for the year that will close right now which is pretty good number at this point in the year.
We would anticipate cap rates at about 8% or so and if you look at our progress in closing.
We closed another $100 million or so here in April and most of that again was part of that $544 million and the rest of at least spread out of the next three four months.
Obviously given that start we think it will be a very good year for acquisitions.
We’re still using in our guidance 6 to $700 million in acquisitions for the year.
We think that’s pretty conservative and we’ll update that as we do more underwriting and see what will end up.
We think we’re going to close on the portfolio.
And as it is typical in almost any time for us we’ll close about 20 $30 million a quarter and that’s in smaller transactions just by being out in the business and then the overall acquisition volume for the year is going to be a function of how many larger transactions that we do like last year where I think we close three larger transactions during the year that got us to about $700 million.
We’ve obviously started the year very well with one of them this year and while we continue to see some larger transactions.
We’ll have to see if there are any of them that the balance for the year come in for us.
If they do obviously it could be another very big year in acquisition and if they don’t given the start we have we think we’re still in a pretty good shape.
How relative to cap rates and spreads it is very competitive out there in the business for a lot of people with capital.
I think we’ll continue to get our fair share of that given our access to capital and ability to close.
But I think we wouldn’t want to describe it it’s not being a comparative environment but that’s been the case in most years.
Cap rates I think if you’re looking in the investment grade area I think 7% plus up in the mid to high seven and managing move down or move up the – down the credit curve then you’re probably looking at things up in the 8% caps and on up to 9% and for us this year we think we’ll blend out again somewhere around 8%.
I think while that’s consistent with last year but down a little bit from previous year’s given capital cost spreads remain very high.
So it continues to be a very accretive time to go out and acquire new assets in access to capital markets.
I think again this quarter and that – it should be in the next few quarters and certainly it was last year.
The main thing relative to our cap rates over the last year has been moving up to credit curve with acquisitions about a $130 million up to $150 million.
We did this quarter was with investment grade type tenants.
That’s probably lots off 50 to 100 basis points of our yields from what is the traditional tenant base but given weaken likely blend to about 8% caps this year.
I think if you look at the historical spreads even it’s working up the credit curve the spreads are very attractive.
And I have mentioned in the past if we go back over the last 15 16 17 years since we’ve been public and you look at the average spread of cap rate over a nominal cost of equity which is kind of taking your forward FFO yield and grossing it up for issuance.
Generally cap rates on closing have been about a 105 basis points over that nominal cost of equity and today we’re closer to 150 to 200 basis points while working at the credit curve.
And I think it was also attractive about that today.
Obviously if you can look at the debt equivalent debt of the tenant with the same maturity you’ll find that the spreads we’re achieving here on doing the net leases are significantly higher what you’d see in the equivalent debt and that’s – that’s pretty attractive to add to the balance sheet.
Relative to the flow of acquisitions I would say that the transaction flow that we have to look at is steady and consistent with what we have last year.
We’re not seeing a big increase.
So I know as we got through early and mid to last year we’re really accelerated in the volume we looked at.
And I’d say that that is flattened out a bit but still it is a very good pace and we’re very active in underwriting.
So it’s a pretty environment if we can find the transaction.
And we are cautiously optimistic that we’ll be able to do so on a competitive market this year.
Relative to our guidance obviously getting a strong start to acquisitions and good performance in the portfolio is very helpful to – in revenue FFO and AFFO.
And given a continuance in accelerated acquisition activity during the first quarter that we think that will continue and should be pretty additive to the FFO and AFFO this year.
A couple of items relative to the first quarter FFO Paul mentioned there was about $371 000 in transaction costs – costs on what we closed this quarter and those should go away in the second quarter relative to revenue stream traded by buying those assets and then additionally as most of you know we also took the opportunity to access the equity markets during the quarter to pre-fund the good part of these purchases.
So we have more shares out and cash on hand about a $129 million that prepared for the balance for closing rest of those portfolios but obviously its put us in a good liquidity position and given us the ability to continue to acquire.
And those all went into guidance.
And then as I said acquisitions were still using $6 million to $700 million and we’ll kind of balance that and change as we go along.
For 2011 we’re still estimating $1.98 to $2.04 at 8% to 11.5% FFO growth and a little higher AFFO 2.03% to 2.07% which will allow us to grow the dividend here in 2011 and at the same time as Paul mentioned bringing the payout ratio down and if we can have acquisitions accelerated that further added out to the numbers.
Paul mentioned the balance sheet in access to capital there is no balance on the line and we obviously have enough cash on hand to close the acquisitions that we’ve done and with no debt coming due.
The balance sheet really is in great shape with debt to EBITDA about 4.5 times and we’re quite liquid.
The other thing I now want to mention this quarter we did put into effect a direct stock purchase program also dividend reinvestment program.
And for those of you that haven’t had a chance we also reconfigured and relaunched our website which we’ve tried to make very consumer oriented for our shareholder base.
And so if you get a chance you might want to take a look at that some time.
But to really summarize the quarter I think good stability in the portfolio very nice and modestly improvement good start to acquisitions and it’s nice to see those acquisitions coming out of next year now starting to drive the revenue the AFFO and the FFO and that so it’s positive for dividend increases.
And with that I think what we’ll do Joe if you’ll come back? We’ll open it up to questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Go ahead please.
Hi thank you and good afternoon everyone.
Hi Tony.
Hi Tony.
Tom you may have touched on this in your comments and I may have missed it.
But as you look at the other types of products that you bring into the portfolio with this large portfolio transaction how big a part of the company do you think that can became or how do you kind of put parameters around – around that like you’ve done on the industry sector with – with discuss that would be done historically? It’s a great question.
We shut down a couple of years ago when we really started working on this.
And when we started talking about targets we really wanted to referring from having targets.
We have – as you know we’ve never really said for the year we want to buy $300 million or $500 million or $700 million because than that tends to be what you in that buying regardless of underwriting and we’d rather focused on thing.
We’re going to go the – into these areas look at as much as we can and them limited to those things that really that the underwriting characteristics – that we don’t have a particular target.
I think the primary thing rather than property type is to really look at and say you know over the years one of the best things we’ve done has gone from five industries in the portfolio to 30 and that had all kinds of benefits relative to risk reduction of our cash flows to the reputation and also due to us being able to allocate to a wider variety of industries.
And we would like to move that up over the years to 40 or 50 and maybe even 60 industries that we can allocate capital to.
But the pace at which it comes in any particular property type we really don’t have a target.
We do continue to not want any industry to move over 20 and we’re closer when they’re down around or below 10%.
But at the main part for right now as you look through getting this year and next year we’re still going to have the vast majority of our assets that are going to be in retail and we’ll add to these as they come along.
This was obviously – you look at last year and we had to be ideal purchase which is about $300 million and this is $544 million of which I think 67% of this was outside of the retail of 33% in and that goes together or obviously some large numbers.
But adds in the couple three bigger transactions I think it will be more incremental as we add them and we don’t have particular targets.
Okay.
And how this – how much does looking at single tenant office single tenant industrial add to your deal pipeline like do you – like opening up to that stuff because it’s just massively increase the deal flow or what you guys potentially look at? Yeah it’s interesting.
It does map but we opened up the – the feel to look at but at the same time I think it really tightens the funnel through which things get through.
Because as we look at it underwriting this type of asset.
You know you have to sit down and say okay as we’re trying to underwrite things what are we looking at.
And as you know traditionally our underwriting has been a function of five or six things that we’re looking for and those are usually you know we want to tenant with multiple cash flows so in retail that’s a chain.
If you look over to doing distribution or office or manufacturing we still want a very large company with multiple cash flows.
So if this is their only distribution facility or one of a couple or this is only manufacturing have only one line of business.
I think that’s going to knock.
They’re now relative to being something we look at even though the property type fits.
And then the second thing is I think for us referred to be worked well for us to do significant due diligence on a tenant if they’re going to have to – real estate’s going to have to be an important to them and they’re going to need to have a fair amount of real estate so that the work we do could be amortized over a number of properties.
And then I think if they also need to be pretty critical to the manufacturing of their EBITDA.
And as you know we’ve always said that the most important underwriting metric we have is looking at the properties we’re buying calculating the EBITDA and getting out idea of the cash flow coverage.
And in some of these types of properties you don’t have that and when you don’t have it in order to still have a margin of safety.
We’re going to have work out the credit curve as we do it.
So I think the majority of this that we would do would be less than or it would be investment grade.
And so that will tend to knock out a huge part of the pipeline that’s coming through the door now and then second tenant with multiple cash flows.
So we’re seeing much much more just generically coming to door but a lot of it gets cut out pretty quickly but I think it will add to our acquisitions in the next few years.
Right imagine that somewhere between 10% to 20% to 30% to 40% 50% of what we do maybe in these areas and if you add that to the overall portfolio it’s fairly modest in terms of how quickly these will build.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Lindsay Schroll of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Go ahead please.
Good afternoon.
Hi Lindsay.
I know you guys said that the flow that you’re seeing is similar to last year but how does that breakout in terms of larger portfolios versus one-off acquisition? Are you seeing more in one area or another or just the same as last year across the broad? I throw that to John Case our Chief Investment Officer.
I think flows about the thing what do you think? Yeah I think that the flows but same.
It really doesn’t vary.
It’s not varying much than what we saw last year.
These larger portfolios are somewhat unpredictable.
We’ve seen couple of them but we’ve seen a lot of smaller opportunities as well consistent with what we’ve saw in 2010.
You know I would guess looking over the last 10 years that we see anywhere from 4 to 6 of things a year and typically about 0 to 2 and then last year just happened to be 3 and we had one at the beginning of the year.
So they are out there.
They do come to us but I think last year the hit rate was just higher but it looks similar this year.
Lindsay Schroll – Bank of America/Merrill Lynch Okay and did you on the last transaction you guys announced did you face any competition for that deal just sort of curious how it was sourced to came above? Yeah I’ll give you a little background it came from a company out of cargo called ECM and they had filed an S-11 to go public earlier last year and have been going through all of the various spaces of that and as we got into the fall obviously the IPO market marine space became much more challenging and so they started looking for other alternatives.
And we had been watching it and had an opportunity to sit down and talk to them about what they were trying to accomplish and there were a number of other parties that we’re taking to them and looking at the transaction and we were able to sit down with them and have a just a very good discussion we also like the people and hit it up very well with them and the portfolio was a little over $700 million and it was very office centric and then there was also a substantial amount of retail that they had but it was not part of their S-11.
And so when we sat down with the first question is globally what are you trying to accomplish for your constituents? And as we were able to talk about that with them we then were able to say office net lease probably has the less interest for us and we were able to substantially lessen that as part of the portfolio.
And then retail is very interested us so we could add that back in and get to a number in this case $544 million that met their needs.
So I think a lot of the people that we’re talking to them kind of move to the side as we were able to get a larger more holistic type of situation together.
And then I think after that there were probably a couple of other parties that were still interested but I think our ability to close and track record of doing so without retrading and doing other things it was helpful.
But it’s a nice relationship that was formed with the people.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
Go ahead please.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey Jeff.
I’d like Tom’s picture on the website by the way.
Okay.
What I meant is please look at the website sometime later.
As I can summarize Tom I think you’ve been saying that compared to the last 30 years you think the next ten the fundamentals of our consumer driven business will be relatively softer and that’s leading you to – to look outside other types of property.
Well you’ve got a fairly unique cost of capital right now.
So I guess I’m curious what prevents you from taking bolder action I mean in ECM certainly was one step up.
But should we expect more transactions like that rather than just sort of one of these two reasons in whatever the venue their office I mean? We’d certainly like to do that when you start looking at very large portfolio.
If I think they become challenged for a enough of that portfolio to be something that makes it through underwriting where there is a huge population of them out there although we’d love to see that happen.
And I’d like to think between this transaction and that the (inaudible) last year you know $800 something million of which $600 million $700 million plus was in these new areas was fairly bold for it.
But the population group I think is likely to be in little small – smaller chunks.
But we’ll be as bold as we can be as long as it fits the underwriting.
And I don’t want to characterize that we’re negative on retail we just think as you said it will be a little more challenge that has been in the last 20 years.
And then the motivation for doing this kind of moves into three or four different things.
But we’ll – we’ll move as quickly as we can move but the underwritings the secrets it as and you look back on the last 20 years and we could have bought a lot more than we did and then we also trying to go back historically what’s – what happens to it and we would have a lot more problems than we would.
So it’s a – we’d like to do a big deals but they’ll come as they come.
I’m curious in what evidence you have for selling efforts? Well that’s an interesting one.
I think it will be more active in selling assets for not – perhaps not here this year but also in years in the future that’s something that we’d like to run at a little higher rate to more actively manage the portfolio.
And if you will allow me Jeff maybe I can tell two words in one stone and kind of explain for folks what are the three of four things we’re talking about.
That’s kind of let us to do what we’re doing and then secondarily where we’d like to go with the portfolio and that will speak to maybe selling more is that right? Sure.
Sure.
As we – a couple of three years ago went through a strategic planning process with our board that we haven’t done in quite a while there.
The first thing that Jeff alluded to is looking at the consumer retail business and saying look it could be a little tougher.
Obviously the consumer levered up in the last 20 years.
We had good job growth and retail was just very good and it could a little softer in the next 20 years.
And then second as you look at what we did as we really expanded our industries from five to 30 industries where we’re getting relatively penetrated in retail to the extent where if we add anybody new I think we move off into the big box space which is not an area that we want to do that.
And then the third thing relative to retail is if you look at what we buy which is the smaller net lease retail box it is gone more mainstream over the last five to 10 years and I think it’s a little more competitive and moderated cap rate.
And so looking at that looking outside was something that we wanted to do.
You know and I really tied to going from five to 30 industries and wanting to expand some more.
As we do that being penetrated in the retail you start looking outside of retail like we did (inaudible).
And to get that non-retail exposure to get in to new industries you’re going to get the non-retail type property.
So it’s really more driven in terms of wanting diversified not the assets in the different property type but really more industries that we can go work in to do net lease financing.
Now this next part kind of speaks to going up to the credit curve and then also probably selling a little more in the future.
One of the things we talked a lot about and going through this strategic planning elevation is looking in the last 30 years we’ve been pretty well in our declining interest rate environment.
And if you look what that did for people in terms of their growth rates in terms of how they handed their balance sheet and their debt levels and how it changed people’s behavior.
It’s pretty stunning that a lot of people will use a lot more debt.
And we’ve kind of asked ourselves if you then look forward over the next 5 10 20 years obviously interest rates would brought a lot and they could stay low and will assign a probability to that and say for lack of a better number 25%.
But then you start saying what are the chances over the next 5 to 10 years that interest rate twice.
And you start like thing something I will let if interest rates go up say 200 basis points for permanent financing in the next 5 to 10 years and you kind of walk through your business and say what would that do when you look at your tenants you look and kind of refinance their balance sheet for them at 200 basis points higher and then say how comfortable in I would add and you’re probably okay at least we are because we have a high cash flow coverages and then say let’s give that a 50% probability which we think is fairly reasonable given it’s 200 basis points off from very low interest rate and you’d say okay well that caused us to do.
And then I think you’re kind of taking outlier and sign a 25% chance that interest rates go up significantly higher and maybe people have to refinance their balance sheets at 400 to 500 basis points higher.
You look at that and say what does that do? How comfortable are you with that and you get about a 25% probability.
And when you sit down and do that kind of three or four questions come up.
One is that what do you want to do with your own balance sheet? I think the answer is while we have that modest task if we thought that interest rates could go up substantially we probably want to moderate our leverage.
And as Paul mentioned earlier debt stand about 25% on the balance sheet and part of that is a function of having done three equity offerings in the recent moths.
So that’s one thing we are trying to do.
And then what does it make you do relative to your existing portfolio? And if you do take the kind of base and you do it on prior refinancing rates off those and then you marry it to look at the properties and what their cash flow coverages are and then go a step further and look at what markets they’re in and where job growth is there is some population growth.
We are trying to go through a phase of taking the whole portfolio of kind of tenant-by-tenant industry-by-industry and property-by-property and laying out on a risk standpoint where we think the risk sits and then think about over though right away that appear to 3 4 5 years what you’d want to be selling and how you’d want to do it.
And we’re kind of in the midst of that right now.
And then the last step for that is obviously what you do with your acquisitions.
And I think going up to credit curve if you can do it and spreads allow us right now that is really going to increase the quality of the portfolio and if you look at possibly higher interest rates at some point down the road or at least the probability of it that is going to take some risk out of portfolio.
So if you kind of look in context of the last year we started working on this a couple of three years ago.
We’ve closed you know 1.2 billion or so or we are about to close in the last 12 13 months $700 million of that is been in new industries probably $750 million of that been has been up to credit curve into investment grade and we try to fund it primarily with equity in the last few so that’s essentially what we are trying to do is to take debt down trying to manage the portfolio for what it would be a little more challenging environment and I think we’re off to a good start.
Doing it while you raise FFO because cost of capital is good as really been a nice advantage to do that and be able to raise the dividend and to get payout ratio at the same time and then if you look forward and say okay five to ten years from now down the road interest rates are higher I think will be very well served by it and if interest rates don’t go up then we are in good shape and we’ll have access the leverage is up that’s kind of what is driving all of this.
It’s helpful actually if I could ask one last question just about the different types of assets you consider you know you mentioned looking at assets that were difficult to separate the earnings generation from the asset itself what do you think about healthcare assets or large space assets I know there is another REIT up in the San Diego area that has assets like that or data centers? I mean all three of those are arguably ones that are difficult to separate the kind of niche there is enough of the cap rate difference to make some sense for you guys? Yeah it’s part of it’s that – kind of when I went through background that I’ve also alluded to that what has worked for us over the years is working in the factors that aren’t efficiently financed or mainstream.
You know that for us that was fast food and child care and then auto service and each of those became mainstream.
So we looked a few years ago at healthcare and there are just a lot of people out financing that and they’re fairly well funded.
Data centers there are some people running after that and each of those are specialized they have some pretty good expertise.
So we haven’t seen those as huge areas for our expansion but we’re also do anything that we can underwrite understand and has either a cash flow coverage we can look at and we’re confident in that it pay less the building they lose the EBITDA or work up the curve.
So that those three areas we kind of watched with interest but I think they’re being pretty aggressively financed right now by other people.
Okay.
Great thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Gregory Schweitzer with Citigroup.
Go ahead please.
Thank you.
Hi guys I’m (inaudible) with him as well.
Hey Greg.
Just a follow up on some of the previous questions and in regards to new industries have you narrowed down a few or done a due diligence on as you guys talk about as you continue severance funding up to the 50 60 industry target? We are kind of in a mad rushed to a lot of at once but I’d have to say kind no.
As we said last year we had done due diligence on a number of areas and got nowhere in line was one the beverage industry and so that’s one that we really head down a lot of work on.
Another one is probably four or five years ago we assigned one of our people for a year to work in the banking industry and we really aggressively went after and talked every bank in the industry in terms of what they were doing but at the time they really didn’t need capital and when we went back and looked at him again a year ago some of them need capital but we couldn’t figure out what their credit situation is but we’ve done a lot of work there but seem nothing out of it there is probably three four more behind that and then we’re really it kind of looks like it did here in 1997 ‘98 ‘99 when we added research we’re really starting to widen the net now and look broadly over a lot of them and at the same time trying to see whether some work to be done but we don’t have big signing targets what we done huge amount of research we’re kind of going after now as we do.
Okay and then have you got through the internal reviews that you were taking about earlier any sense on how much or what portion of the ECN portfolio you might want to sell down the road or are you comfortable with all the tenants in the industry for the long haul at the moment? Yeah we are very comfortable with the tenants and you know I mentioned before the office for net lease is one for us that’s a little harder to get our hands around relative to release at the end of it.
And is open ended question so that’s where we probably have less interest we did substantially get the office down to this where it was just three buildings and we’re comfortable with them and with the prices we paid you know that’s one option to stick back there but given my conversation earlier about the entire portfolio I think there is more things there that we’d want to sell than in this particular area but when you look at the distribution the tenants the biggest tenant in here is FedEx with eight of the properties but it will now be about 2% of our revenue.
And the distribution people are investment grade the office there are close the manufacturing is MeadWestvaco and Coco-Cola.
So those are all areas that we are very conformable with what we have and I think sales would really come out of the existing portfolios in some areas that tenants and individual properties where we think there might be more risk.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And I will talk one more the properties and development that required the course was that outside of the portfolio deal? Yes it was and we are not showing a lot of development and I am look to only have two currently development.
Right.
And then we have couple of other prosperities that are more less I wouldn’t called redevelopment I called them added investment into fixed development whether expanding on side for really we just had two properties in the entire portfolio that we are funding new construction from they want.
And with that unique opportunity or is that something you are not continue to look at and high – how do you evaluate that? Existing tenant – relationship.
Yeah.
We’ve got a couple of tenants one in particular that we’ve done a lot of their new stores and very consistently there extraordinarily profitable and so we have a comfort level with them.
And that’s a majority and there is just new stores they are opening but like I said we normally like to buy existing with cash flow coverages but we have get that bind any that these guys didn’t open that it didn’t end up with high cash flow coverages.
So while it’s very small as part of the overall acquisitions we are comfortable with these people and then some others just want to turn it will come to us and say we want to expand this particular site or some excess land.
Obviously we are in the mud to invest so if they are willing to roll the lease back to a full terminal allow us to do some added investment we’re happy to do it but it’s relatively small.
Okay great.
Thank you very much and (inaudible).
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Go ahead please.
Hi good afternoon guys.
(Inaudible) Just following up on the development can you guys disclose how much more you’re going to be spending and when they are expected to be completed.
I think its 16.2 million I believe is the number and there is about 7 million more to fund so relative the size of the company it’s not huge and those are all subject to leases that we have written before the development happens and the completion is guaranteed by the tenants so there is no development risk.
Got it okay.
Cost and timing taken care of relative to development risk.
Right.
Got you okay and then just thinking about needs for exploration the retail versus the non-retail obviously on the retail side the EBITDA coverage rent gives you some good indication as to whether or not the tenant is going to renew or it will be relatively easy to release upon exploration you mentioned that sometimes on the non-retail side you guys are either aren’t getting that data specifically or is harder to identify are there any other sort of metrics that you look at there as is just moving up the investment credit curves that gives you confidence that’s a the least exploration.
It is moving up the credit curve that’s makes us comfort that we’ll get paid from now to the lease as correction.
Right.
Having EBITDA they can walk away from.
And as we did this part of our process and why it’s going to be a very big funnel for instance if you’re looking at distribution and you have a site you want to make sure that first of all that there is a credit standards.
Second you want to know what they are doing with it advertise and other operations.
Is it a distribution facility that is sitting next one plant what if the plant closes does it serve two or three plant.
Second is that this recent facility that is fully built out ideally what you probably want is additional land and a lot of these people like to put additional land.
So as time goes on and they need to expand their business they can do it.
That gives you an opportunity to rewrite the lease up to a longer-term again.
So we’re looking for that and then upfront in these we’re trying to make sure that the prices we’re paying and that the cost we have as you get more into the industrial pipes give us some margin of safety there.
So I think it don’t over pay really understand use they have make sure they’re up to current standards.
But have a good feeling that is a particular one of their distribution in manufacturing facilities but they’re likely to use for many years to come because it’s closer to headquarters or the distributions closer to manufacturing facilities.
So we’re really working on that and working up the learning curve but we start with getting a long-term lease in an investment grade credit.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks a lot guys.
And our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Go ahead sir.
Hi good afternoon guys.
On the ECM transaction is there anything else in their portfolio or was just the whole thing I mean would you add something else that they have or you kind of done with them? No we we’re done for now they are ongoing entity that will continue to invest for the benefit of their investors and we like each other and so we like to have an ongoing relationship if there is some things to do in the future relative to what they have now we obviously we’re able to take some things that didn’t fit us well or we didn’t know as well and move those out and those things did fit us we are willing to do all that they have or fit their needs for sales so I don’t see a lot to do with them right now but there may be overtime and stuffs we do in there good people we wouldn’t mind that.
Okay Tom thank you and then do you still kind of close everything in ECM that you are going do by August – by end of August I think you said before? Yeah that’s our best guess right now.
I think by end of August we should be able to do it but as you know there is some debt to assume which we typically want to pay off as fast we can because we don’t want mortgage debt but when you get into the assumption some mortgage services things can slide a bit and at this point that and maybe a couple of a closing issues could hold us up but that’s the plant for now Okay and speaking of the debt I think you had said you want to eliminate like 223 out of 291 million? Yeah.
Is that done have you done that are you still working on that? We are working and that process and that will continue through closing and after closing.
There may be a more another $20 million we have to take honor.
So it’s just as function of – it turns out it was uneconomic to pay it off but that will fly and again that’s the mortgage services and people we work with so happy happy to get it all paid off but don’t want to do when it becomes economic that splits a little bit but not that much and we’re working on it.
Okay I got you.
And then I think you sold three vacancies in the quarter does that sounds right? We sold three properties in the quarter most likely we found somebody who wanted to occupied and – occupied and we prepared to sell them rather than lease them.
Okay I got you.
And then will that continue do you think I mean is there a – is there a – I don’t know and the interest from tenants to buy the properties and then the owner occupied kind of thing that would take so more of that that 81 – those 81 assets that you have that are vacant? You know to the extent that you know anytime we get out of 81 we seem to add some and that’s kind of the normal rate that fits there given rough to 2005 19 properties but typically what happens is we’ll go out to lease those.
And when we find a tenant it either is one that’s fits our portfolio on which case we’d rather keep it on the books or it’s one that doesn’t fits the portfolio and at that point we’d like to help them to own it.
And that has been running anywhere.
I just have to look at that this morning anywhere from $15 million to $35 million a year for the last 10 to 11 12 years in sales.
But what I think maybe not this year but moving into next year and the year after I think sales will accelerate but that’s more a function of just work in the portfolio not vacancy and relief.
Okay I got you.
Good thanks.
And then lastly I had is – was there some particular emphasis to do the dividend reinvestment plan now.
I would have thought – I didn’t – you think about it you guys would have had one of those before and I guess you didn’t right now and why I guess now did you suddenly decide that’s a good idea? Yeah one suddenly you know out of this strategic plan process that were a number of initiatives and one of them is one that really build our brand.
The monthly dividend company which worked very well for us in the recent years and the financial community and continue to do that really with that income oriented investor.
And so it was all tied together with the relaunch of the website which is the first step of a program there over the next few years and adding in the direct stock and the dividend reinvestment at the same time of that.
So we really held off on it knowing for a couple of three years that was coming and so we could relaunch the website and really really start the initiative they were tied together.
Okay very good.
Thank you guys.
And our next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Go ahead please.
Hi good afternoon.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I just had a quick one as long as we’re on acquisitions.
Is there any interest in perhaps some public deals not so much non-IPOs but perhaps other lease that’s out there or was that going that you’re not really thinking about right now? Yeah that is one we’re always open to but it is long-term been a challenge for us there was a period there you know from probably 1997 to 2008 where we were offered 7 or 8 and we got very close with the couple and we did a tremendous amount of research and in each case while it came down to is you know you work so hard quarter-by-quarter to meet your underwriting characteristics to your business and then to take a large portfolio underwritten from somebody else all at once that is diversified where you’d have to do all that work and its already been done and they’ve done it differently has made a really problematic to do so and in order to do it you then are looking for some discounts that we would try and reduce or mitigate that risk of taking on other peoples underwriting so you know in each case we couldn’t quite get there and I’ve become a little suspicious to that’s something that will happen on the long-term but I think is appropriate to remain open to the possibility.
Okay great thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Omotayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Co.
Go ahead.
Hi guys good afternoon congratulations on a good quarter.
Thanks Omotayo.
Quick questions in regards to the guidance outlook on the acquisition side.
Yes.
How should we be thinking how you plant to fund that permanently should we be thinking about what you’ve done in the past as you you know once you announce the deal you kind of putting that equity a little bit after that or are kind of thinking about funding that’s a little bit different on a going forward basis? Yeah we pre-funded a lot of this with the equity raises and if you look at the depth that we’ll assume on this albeit we’re trying to pay if off I think right now cash on hand gives us a long way towards funding the vast majority of this purchase.
Right.
We still have the line sitting there if we did small acquisitions on a regular basis it think it build the line up to a $100 million $150 million before you do something.
If you get a large acquisition then I think you try and fund it right away so you don’t create a lot of overhang.
Okay.
And given what I said earlier I think equity – these prices would our choice preferred also attractive.
But if you get into a very large transaction this is interesting because we did it Diageo last year $300 million and we were wondering about what overhand issues would be to equity so we started with debt.
So all cards are available equity goes choice number one preferred two but debt if we think we need to that if we’re going to have to do multiple financing.
Got it okay.
And then just kind of – what comfort zone you think should be heading in the market any interest in doing more dispositions and recycling the (inaudible) in the portfolio? Yeah as I mentioned a little earlier we’re really in the midst of a project here to take the whole portfolio and look at it from a tenant and industry basis and then separately by a property basis.
And really you know we’ve taken it we put together spread sheets and then put in each market that they are in and rate at the market for job growth and population type of job growth and all of that.
We’re in a middle of a process to do that at the end of it what we want to kind of do is have internally our entire portfolio of scale most risk to less risk and at that point Omotayo I think we will want to do more active portfolio management and selling a few more but I think it’s going to take through this year to get a lot of that done.
We also won all the acquisitions we’ve done so far this year you know to have the spread hit the bottom line so we an lower the payout ratio while increasing the dividend.
One of the interesting things about actively managing the portfolio is that we have paid $300 million of acquisitions with an eight cap that the cost of capital is six and we’re clearing $2 million and we have $300 million of that that’s $6 million and its 4.5 $0.05 of new FFO on spread.
Yeah.
And to the extent that we take a $100 million out of the existing portfolio yielding us eight and sell it we take about 1.5 $0.06 for each $100 million with a 200 basis points spread out of our growth for acquisition and that assumes that at the cap rate now what you are selling equals the cap rate now what you are buying if you are selling those things you think it might have some more risk down the line.
I think you want to assume that the cap rate is a little higher and so it does eat into your FFO so I think each year it’s going to be taking a look at FFO growth getting to a good rate of FFO that allows you what you want to do relative to raise your dividend and then thinking if there is some of that you might burn off by taking some risk out of your portfolio and I think it’s going to be year-by-year and its likely next year is the start year we start doing that in the portfolio but it is something I have an interest in.
Got it thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Dizio with Janney Capital Markets.
Go ahead please.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Hi.
Hi just a kind of follow-up to Richards question about the reception to the direct program the direct stock purchase options if you kind of have an early lead on how much capital that will provide each quarter do you think it’s the kind of thing that can fund this small one off transactions you see every quarter? You know I think it’s very small I really do.
It is something that three years we didn’t add because we thought it was really small and most people who did it had the company pay for which means the existing shareholders.
We’ve set it up so the people who use it pay for it and we just want it as an option kind of the overall program of the website and what we’re doing is to kind of be able to work directly with our consumer there but we assume most of their purchases are going to come through their brokers be that and having a full service financial advisor or whether they do that in some other fashion.
And what – it’s really not through us majority of the purchase will come but we did one-off for it is an option and we thought a good time to do as when we put the website up.
But I don’t think it will be big and we’ll report it as we go along but we’re only a couple of weeks into the website and I think you know 10 or 11 days relative to direct stock purchase and I know somebody has done it but don’t have a read on volume don’t think it’s big.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Realty Incomes’ question-and-answer session.
I’ll turn it back to management at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you everybody for taking the time and I look forward to seeing you all soon at (inaudible) in ICFE and thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for using ACT Teleconferencing.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Realty Income second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
(Operator instructions) I'd like to inform everyone that this conference is being recorded today Thursday July 28 2011 at 1:30 pm Pacific Center Time.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tom Lewis CEO of Realty Income.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us on the call to discuss our second quarter of this year.
With me as usual is Gary Malino our President and Chief Operating Officer; Paul Meurer our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Case our EVP and Chief Investment Officer; Mike Pfeiffer our EVP and General Counsel.
And during this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in the forward-looking statements.
And we will disclose in greater detail on the company's Form 10-Q the factors that may cause such differences.
And with that as is our custom we'll let Paul start with some discussion of the numbers.
Thanks Tom.
As usual I'll just briefly walk through the financial statements and provide a few highlights of the financial results for the quarter starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 24.5% to $102.6 million this quarter versus $82.4 million during the second quarter of 2010.
This reflects the significant amount of new acquisitions over the past year as well as positive same-store rent increases for the quarterly period of 1.8%.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased by $5.7 million in the comparative quarterly period and of course depreciation expense increased as our property portfolio continues to grow.
Interest expense increased by just over $4 million.
This increase was due to the $250 million of senior notes due 2021 which we issued in June of last year and our recent issuance of $150 million of notes in the reopening of our 2035 bonds.
One of related note our coverage ratio has both improved since last quarter with interest coverage now at 3.6 times and fixed charge coverage now at 2.9 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the second quarter were $7.987 million.
As we've mentioned over the past year these comparative increases in G&amp;A are due partly to recent hirings and our acquisition in research departments.
Our G&amp;A expense has increased as our acquisition activity has increased and we've invested in some new personnel for future growth.
Furthermore and specific to this quarter this quarter's G&amp;A was also impacted by the expensing of $542 000 of acquisition due diligence cost.
That compares to a similar number of our category of $40 000 of acquisition due diligence cost in the comparative quarter a year ago.
Our current projection for G&amp;A for the year for 2011 is approximately $29.5 million which will represent only about 7% of total revenues.
This is only a slight increase from the $29 million estimate we gave you last quarter for the year the additional $500 000 reflecting of course this $500 000 of unique acquisition expenses during the second quarter.
Property expenses remained flat at $1.656 million for the quarter.
These expenses are primarily associated with the taxes maintenance and insurance expenses which we are responsible for on properties available for lease.
And our current estimate for 2011 remains about $7 million.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the company.
They were $368 000 during the quarter.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled just under $1.3 million.
Real estate acquired for resale refers to the operations of Crest Net Lease our subsidiary that can acquire and resell properties.
Crest however did not acquire or sell any properties in the quarter and overall contributed income of $220 000.
Real estate held-for-investment refers to property sales by realty income from our existing core portfolio.
We sold six properties during the quarter resulting overall income of just over $1 million.
These property sales gains are not included in our FFO or in the calculation of our AFFO.
Preferred stock cash dividends remained at $6.1 million for the quarter and net income available to common stockholders increased to approximately $33.2 million for the quarter.
Funds from operations or FFO increased 30.1% to $60.9 million for the quarter.
An on a per share basis FFO pare share increased 6.7% to $0.48 for the quarter.
Adjusted funds from operation or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividend was higher at $0.49 per share for the quarter.
Our AFFO is usually higher than our FFO because our capital expenditures are fairly low and we have minimal straight line rent in our portfolio.
We increased our cash monthly dividend again this quarter.
We have increased the dividend 55 consecutive quarters and 62 times overall since we went public over 15.5 years ago.
Our dividend payout ratio for the quarter was 90% of our FFO and 88% of our AFFO.
Now turning to the balance sheet for a minute we've continued to maintain a very conservative and safe capital structure.
Our current debt to total market capitalization is only 28% and our preferred stock outstanding represents just 5% of our capital structure.
We did assume mortgage debt of approximately $60 million on three properties we acquired during the quarter.
We plan to repay these mortgages at the earliest economically-feasible prepayment date.
All details regarding these mortgages can be found in the 10-Q to be filed shortly.
In June we raised $150 million of new capital with the reopening of our 2035 bonds.
Since some of the identified acquisitions we have did not close in the second quarter we ended up with $156 million of cash on hand at June 30 and we estimate of course using that cash for acquisitions during the third quarter.
We also have zero borrowings on our $425 million credit facility and we have no debt maturities until 2013.
So in summary we currently have excellent liquidity and our overall balance sheet remains very healthy and safe.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tom who will give you a little bit more background on these results.
Let me start with the portfolio.
Obviously the metrics for the second quarter for the portfolio were very good and operations continued to improve pretty much across the portfolio.
At the end of the quarter as you can see in the release 15 largest tenants accounted for about 52% of revenue.
That's down 180 basis points from last quarter and about 260 basis points for the year.
So obviously additional sources of revenue have given us some added diversification.
And the average cash flow coverage rent at the store level for the top 15 tenants remained very stable at about 2.35 times.
So overall a very good metric.
Occupancy in second quarter was 97.3% and 68 properties available for lease and that's out of the 2 523 properties we own.
That's up 50 basis points from the first quarter and about 110 basis points versus same period a year ago.
For the quarter we had only two new vacancies.
That's obviously versus 10 in the first quarter and we leased or sold 15 properties during the quarter and I think added 10 to the portfolio.
And that's the reason for the increase in occupancy but obviously at 97.3% very healthy.
My sense is we should probably look for the portfolio to operate at about this level going forward.
I think with the normal amount of rollover and other activities in the portfolio and ebb and flow a bit around this number but as we really look at our internal projections for the balance of the year it may go up a bit next quarter.
But I think this is around where we would anticipate being at the end of the year and back to where we were a few years ago before we went into the recession.
And obviously at this level we're pleased with that.
Same-store rents from the portfolio increased 1.8% during the second quarter.
That's compared to 1.1% in the first quarter and then 1% in the fourth last year and 0.3% in the third quarter.
So we've kind seen as expected.
That number continued to increase and we get up to about 1.8% to 2%.
That tends to be on the high end for Realty Income being a net lease company and pretty healthy for us.
If you look at the same-store rents kind of where they came from we had only one industry where we had decline in same-store rents in the quarter and that was some quick-service restaurants which declined only about $109 000.
We have four industries where we have same-store rent flat and then 25 saw same-store rent increases with very healthy increases primarily from the movie theatres and then surprisingly but very nice CRV vehicle dealerships that we have in the portfolio and then some added in as usual convenient stores and automotive stores for a net gain there of about $1.4 million overall in the portfolio.
Obviously the occupancy gains and same-store rent increases over the last four quarters have been very healthy and the portfolio continues to do very well.
Just a comment on diversification.
We continue to widen that out as we add new industries and tenants.
Basically we are now I think 2 523 properties and 37 different industries and 131 multiple-unit tenants in 49 states.
The industry exposures are moving around a bit and we remain very diversified.
Convenient stores remain our largest at 19%.
That's down about 90 basis points from last quarter.
Restaurants continue to come down as we've been working on that for the last couple of years.
It's down to about 17.5% of revenue.
That's down 140 basis points from last quarter and about 440 basis points over the last four five quarters.
And we think that will continue.
I also want to point out one of the things one of the charts is on industry diversification that we have in the press release and we're often asked of the restaurants in the portfolio how much are QSR quick service restaurants or fast food and how many are casual dining.
So we went ahead this quarter and broke those out and really broke them into two segments.
We still do that.
Industry of restaurants is being one industry that we want to keep below 20% rent but we thought we'd break it out and we hope that's helpful.
Behind that theaters is our next largest industry at 7.8% and then the only other categories that really come in over 5% are automotive tire stores at 6.3% beverages at 5.7% and then child day care at 5.4% which interestingly I would note that 5.4% in child care was 50% of the portfolio when we became public a number of years ago.
So we remain in good shape and trying to improve on diversification.
Our largest tenant is Diageo at 5.4% and then as you see in the chart LA Fitness and AMC behind that.
And with all 15 of our largest tenants really contribution a smaller percentage of revenue it's widening out.
When you get to the 15th largest tenant as you can see here it's 2.1%.
When you get to the 20th you're below 1.5%.
And then it goes down pretty quickly under there.
And again geographically we remain fairly well diversified.
Average lease length on the portfolio at the end of the quarter was 11.1 years.
So that's very healthy and remains strong.
And I think overall a very good quarter for portfolio operations.
Let me move on to property acquisitions.
During the second quarter we continued to be active.
We acquired 10 properties for $213 million.
The average lease yield or cap rate on those in the quarter was 7.5% average lease term about 13 year.
And the 10 properties that we bought are leased to eight different tenants.
Those different tenants are in seven different industries.
I would note that of the $213.5 million that we acquired approximately $206 million was part of the $544 million transaction that we announced in the first quarter.
So if you look at that $544 million without $130 million in the first quarter $206 million here in the second quarter gets us to $336 million and leaves us with another $208 million of that transaction to close in the third quarter.
And we believe all of it will close by the end of the third quarter.
For the first six months that gets us to $364 million at a 7.6% cap rate.
If you then add in $208 million I just mentioned that should close in the third quarter that should get us really about $564 million for the year at probably around a 7.8% a cap overall.
We think we'll continue to add to that.
Right now for our planning purposes we're using $600 million to $800 million in acquisitions for the year at around 8% cap rate or so.
And that's what kind of underlies our guidance.
That obviously would be another good year for us for acquisitions.
Let's talk about cap rates for a moment.
The cap rate for the quarter was a bit lower than usual at 7.5% but that was due primarily to the fact that the portion of the $544 million transaction that $206 million of the $213 million we bought this quarter had really a cluster of the highest credit tenants in that transaction.
So we were very much working up to credit curve in the quarter and the properties we closed were with tenants like MeadWestvaco T-Mobile FedEx and Coca Cola.
And obviously when you're working up to credit curve with those type of tenants the rates are lower and they just happen to be clustered into the closings this quarter.
And that's why a little bit lower rate.
So I think we'd look for cap rates to increase a bit on the assets that we acquire in the balance of the year.
That's true in the third quarter for the $206 million remaining in this transaction and I think also for the other things that we're working on.
So I think out in the marketplace while cap rates remain very competitive the lower cap rates so far this year are just primarily a factor of working out the credit curve.
And the majority of what we'll closed in the third quarter and I think beyond would likely be 50 basis points higher or more than what we did this quarter.
And that should probably get us to about an 8 cap by the end of the year give or take 10 basis points or 20 basis points.
But that's really where that came from.
Talking about the acquisitions market overall right now we continue to see a very good flow of acquisition opportunities to work on.
Transaction flow is very healthy and has continued to increase really since about the second quarter of 2010.
And so there are a lot of transactions.
And we're very busy in underwriting and also the majority of what we are looking on as in our traditional retail net lease areas at the moment.
And there is quite a bit going on.
However it is also a very competitive market.
There is a lot of capital flushing around looking for a home and a lot of it is also in the triple net lease market.
And so while it's very competitive that leads I think some of the transactions to be a little loosely structured.
So I'm trying to figure out exactly what we'll be able to close even though there is a fairly high level of transactions that we're looking is a bit difficult.
But even at these cap rates given cost of capital obviously spreads remain very good and it's a good environment to the extent that we can continue to find good things to buy.
Let me move to guidance for a minute.
Obviously the acquisitions and increasing occupancy and same-store rent have increased our revenue and FFO and AFFO numbers and we think that will continue to be the case for the balance of the year and I think in the next year.
But in the release as you can see we took a couple of cents off the top end of the guidance and that was really due to three things the first of which is as I mentioned some of the closings on the $544 million transaction held back by a few months due to some of the issues related to assuming mortgages on those properties.
And that's a process that is fairly new for us.
Additionally some of those where properties with mortgages that we thought we might assume for a couple of month until we had a chance to totally pay them off but as it turned out as we run through the transaction there were some fees and costs with lenders for the assumption that we just decided it wasn't economic to take.
And if we just waited a couple of months to close those if we could under the contract we can just pay those mortgages off.
And so those moved into the mid-to-light third quarter on that $206 million.
And obviously the revenue we'd have started booking somewhere in the second quarter was put off for a quarter or so.
The second thing that we did is obviously elected to move into the bond market open up our 30-year and raise $150 million of capital with 24-year debt offering.
We thought the rate was attractive.
The market was open.
And notwithstanding that we knew we didn't need the money right away we knew we'd need it by the end of the summer.
But having that cash on hand was also contributory.
And then Paul finally mentioned that there was about $550 000 of additional G&amp;A from direct transaction cost and then there was also really another $200 000 in G&amp;A that was not research or due diligence costs but just cost relative to some legal fees and other things and state fees that directly related also to those acquisitions.
So there is about $750 000 there in G&amp;A.
And the net effect of the three of those together is responsible for taking $0.02 off the top of the guidance.
So I hope that's helpful.
For the year then we're estimating FFO of $198 million to $202 million.
That's about 8.2% to 10.4% FFO growth.
And AFFO of $203 million to $205 million that's 9% to 10% AFFO growth.
And obviously that should allow us to continue to grow the dividend and at same time bring the payout ratio down quite a bit.
At this point in the year if acquisitions accelerate further that would add to the numbers to some extent for this year.
But obviously as we're sitting here in the third quarter and you look at acquisitions and as they close later in the year it'd be more additive to next year's numbers as we buy in the third and fourth quarter.
I'll just finish.
Paul mentioned the balance sheet which in very good shape and we're very liquid and have capital to move forward and do additional acquisitions.
And so to summarize it was a very very good quarter for the portfolio.
We continue to be active in acquisitions and revenue FFO and AFFO grew nicely but should continue to grow.
And with that if we can we'll open it up to any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
I guess from a high-level view how would you guys think of growth versus portfolio sales going forward as the portfolio is getting now close to $4 billion? I guess there has to be some additional if you really want to make future accretive acquisitions.
Do you guys think about either pairing back to portfolio on some of the lower-quality stuff or do you think that the primary growth is going to come from acquisitions going forward? I would hope over the long-term given how we structured the leases there is probably 1.5% to 2% internal growth from same-store rent increases given a kind of flat occupancy.
And so you're right.
Majority of the rest of growth really has to come externally.
And as we get larger now and if you're looking at 5% FFO growth in the next year you're probably looking at about $700 million of acquisitions.
Unfortunately even though while we've grown it is a very large net lease market of which we hold a very small share.
So I think we can continue to grow.
With that said one of the things that I was really trying to focus on it's likely not to have as much impact this year but going into next year and the following is really doing what you said which is we have a project underway to go through the portfolio and kind of look at each of the properties and rate them 1 through 2 500-plus relative to what we think the long-term risk is return.
And that's a project that's ongoing and we're going to marry that also with the tenant review.
And kind of taking a look as we look forward five 10 years given we've had 30 years of declining interest rates and almost to zero kind of how we view the tenants relative to their operations but also if they had to go out and refinance their balance sheets which most will and the combination of those two will lead us probably in the next year and the year after to work on some portfolio sales.
And while I don't think it will be massive I think it will step up continuously what we're selling off.
And that may be partially with fund acquisitions but I still believe that new assets will be responsible for our growth primarily in the next three four years.
You also touched before on the 1031 market before.
Have you seen any additional demand coming from that market or it's still been sort of sleepy like it's been the last year or so? As it was a few years ago it's very sleepy because obviously the one thing you have to have is a gain.
You need a 1031.
But as we've seen cap rates falling prices rise there is a little more activity in the 1031 market out there.
And absent the volatility you are seeing we are watching potentially in the financial markets today it is a time where there probably would be some opportunities for sales coming there.
That's fine for selling out of the portfolio relative to adding assets and starting Crest back up.
Given the potential volatility I am not quite sure I'd do it yet.
But if things continue and reach the low then there probably will be additional demand coming on from the 1031 market on one-off transactions.
Our next question comes from the line of Lindsay Schroll of Bank of America.
I am not sure what those three remaining Crest properties are but I guess is there any thought that you'd dispose of those three assets and get rid of Crest all together? I don't think we'd get rid of Crest all together.
I think there may be a time of the future when we could use it again although I don't know in how much volume.
But to give you an idea Crest at its peak when we had well over $100 million inventory there was approximately two employees in Crest and the person that was the professional there is still with us and is doing a lot of our good acquisition work.
And the other person has really transferred aside.
So Crest has no employees and really the only expenses that we have there is a little bit of tax and bookkeeping.
The three assets that we hold in there are assets that wrote down quite a bit.
They were the three Hometown Buffet and I think they're carrying value.
We're more focused now out of leasing them and hope to have some progress there and then decide what to do with them.
And then there is also a couple of other assets in Crest that are generating income.
I mean these are mortgages taking back taking back at a fairly low loan to value ratio from a couple of sales we did.
So there is very little cost in Crest but there is some revenue coming in there right now and we may use them it again some day.
So it's not a huge carrying cost.
What is really driving the higher level of opportunities that you're seeing? I think M&amp;A is back on the table and we've started to see that heat up.
And I also think that there are a number of investments banks that have been talking to their clients about taking advantage of what is a bit of a resurgent market relative to net lease properties.
The flow has just continued to pick up.
It kind of flattened out in the first quarter.
But as we sit here today I know the flow we're seeing from investment banks directly from retailers and then the private equity firms has increased quite a bit.
So that's basically it.
But the volumes have increased and there is a lot out there.
And I think I used a line on the last call that Odds are good but the goods are odd.
Given kind of animal spirit reemerging back into the marketplace some of these are structured at prices and cap rates that don't make sense for us and there are a lot of players out there.
But I think some of them are getting end up in our sweet spot and we'd be able to do some more but it is very active.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Can you guys talk a little bit about the general health of the retail environment? You had a good uptick in occupancy this quarter.
Has anything changed from the leasing discussions recently that led to that or is it just sort of a gradual improvement? First in lease rollover we had some pretty good results.
I think we had 86 properties to do at the start of the year.
40 of them are done and had pretty good results in there.
And so there wasn't really incoming on from that.
And there is not a lot of tenant activity in terms of getting anything back.
And people during the second quarter first quarter felt better about leasing space to smaller tenants and growing their businesses.
And I don't want to sound like it's a great retail environment but I think over the last 30 days or so people are a little more cautious.
But I hear in the third quarter I think the activity is going to be pretty good.
Do you have an internal estimate as to when you think the mortgages will be paid off? The other thing is I'm also speaking most of what we have the smaller box-type space.
I'm not sure if that's true for the larger box.
So I'll just take that caveat.
We'll give all the details in the Q but just so you know it's four different mortgages on three different properties aggregating about $58.6 million.
And we will be paying those off somewhere between 2013 and 2015.
That's the earliest very economically-feasible prepayment date.
And I think when we first announced our transaction we thought we might have $90 million $92 million in mortgages but we were able to work on that and get it down to about a little under $60 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
You talked a little bit about the retail environment.
It sounds like it's still pretty healthy.
I think in the last couple of quarters there've been no tenants on the credit watch list.
Is that still the case? Yes there is nobody on the credit watch list which we think if anything is imminent.
Particularly over the last three to four months if you look at those that really work with kind of low income those are the people that continue to suffer.
We paint a picture generally but most of our businesses came back really well but there are a few guys there still working very hard but nothing that we see is imminent.
You mentioned the cash flow coverage of rent Tom.
Do you have the range for the top 15 tenants? Yes I do.
It's about the same as last quarter 1.5% to 3.5%.
And with regards to the direct transaction cost should we think about those as costs for already agreed to acquisitions or costs related to potential future acquisitions or a combination of the two? I'd say it's primarily associated with acquisitions that either closed or in the process of closing.
You need kind of diligence costs on unique property types as well as unique work you need to do on in-placed leases if you will things of that nature.
And you have a large portfolio.
And then my last question just with regard to dividends coverage is obviously improving.
If the Board thinks about a dividend increase in the third quarter can you just give us some idea around what type of metrics they will be looking at to set a possible dividend increase? I think we have been steadily increasing it in the last few years small amounts on a quarterly basis.
That's particularly as revenue and FFO flattened out during the recession.
And so this is going to be a bit of a catch-up going on getting the payout ratio back down in the 80s.
I think by the end of the year we will have done that.
And so my sense is although this is going to be a subject of our Board meeting that it wouldn't be a bad idea to have just a full increases this year.
But in next year probably dividend increases would be much closer to matching up FFO growth.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Recently you guys have been doing more deals with higher credit tenants got much lower cap rates.
But when we think about just the overall competitive environment as you mentioned cap rates keep going down how should we be thinking about your appetite if you're doing deals at pretty tough cap rates? Should we be kind of thinking about you guys are going down or you guys still would be in very competitive but maybe levering up the balance sheet (inaudible) and end up with a decent spread on those deals? Even though rates in the last couple of years have fallen the spreads have been the widest they have ever been since we've been in business.
Again working on credit curve we are really looking around 8 cap rates on what we're doing.
And an 8 cap rate in this cost to capital environment is a pretty good rate.
Relative to levering up I'm not sure that we want to take balance sheet metrics much further out than they are.
And like you saw us two quarters or so ago to the extent we would do it we'd probably want to do it in very long-term paper.
With rates near zero I think the odds in the next five to 10 years for interest rates to be a little higher or decent I'm not sure you want to add on to your balance sheet intermediate and short-term financing.
You're going to refinance at higher rates.
So I think it will be a combination from equity maybe a little preferred maybe a little debt and then on an accelerated basis but not the majority from outside recycling as we move into the next couple of years or so.
Are there any retail categories that you guys would be more interested in increasing exposure to or decreasing exposure to going forward? In the retail area we continue to like the convenience stores.
We're probably pretty heavy there but we can do some more.
The casual dining restaurant is not an area that we'd want to go to but quick service is a nice solid business if we could get the right tenant.
And then movie theaters we like theaters quite a bit.
That's always of interest to us and still under 10%.
And then kind of outside of that in the other areas that newly went into the transportation FedEx type tenants are some that if we can be additive there and get a cap rate that makes sense we wouldn't mind doing it.
But it's pretty broad-based.
It really has more to do with the particular transaction cash flow coverage into our credit and the prices and cap rate that we can get rather than saying "Hey this is the industry we want to go after." You've had the Diageo deal under your belt for a bit now.
Just how that's going relative to your initial thoughts? Absolutely great.
They are a great tenant obviously a very very good credit and their business continues to move forward.
And we have Diageo on the lease for a very long time.
I think we added on Hewitt as the number one another one of their wineries such as Sterling and BV and both are doing well.
As a leader of the wine sector strongly recommended 2007 Georges De Latour.
90 points.
Our next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
Can you comment on what type of tenants have been active in leasing your Vegan properties? It's pretty broad-based.
A lot of this was smaller some of the childcare and restaurant that we added over the years.
So it's been a combination of local tenants primarily or small three four five six-unit chains.
And that's why you've kind of more sales than leases but pretty broad-based.
We've been out there really working hard beating the bushes.
One of the advantages of having smaller units is you have the opportunity to work with some smaller organizations.
And then it's a question if you're more comfortable keeping them in the portfolio and selling them.
But it really is a lot of two three four-unit people that look at the current opportunity and see an opportunity to expand.
I really give credit to our people in portfolio management.
They have been very active and very successful this year.
Our next question comes from the line of RJ Milligan with Raymond James.
Tom just curious if we're seeing any change in terms of the mix of where the capital is coming from looking for the triple net assets and maybe if some of the recent economic data points have changed that mix.
The private REIT space which is getting a lot of pressure today there has been a couple of people there that have been expanding and that just seems to be the asset class they've moved to mix.
So there is a fair amount coming from that end of it as well as the public companies being active.
And then there is also some kind of real estate private equity that's out.
Even some of the mortgage people that are unable to get the yields they want in their business have been opening up some shops to do this.
So it just happened three four or five times since we have been public and there is just a lot of people looking moving into this space right now as they see falling cap rates in another areas trying to get some yield.
So it's pretty broad-based and it's very active but we think we'll get our appropriate share of the business.
So there is still pretty strong demand from the smaller owners the more local guys? There is a demand for buying triple-net leases.
The 1031 market has picked up a bit.
But it's a lot of larger transaction stuff.
As we all know a lot of money on the streets flushing around and some of it's looking to net lease given where the yields are today.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo Securities.
Building of the ECM portfolio do you find yourself in more conversations for deals and the FedEx-type acquisition opportunities or it really still too early to see any flow from that yet? I think it's too early to see flow on a current quarter but we're in a lot of discussions there and we're kind of adding to our efforts in that area because we think it'd be very good place to go.
If one of your views is interest rates could be higher in the future we look back on some of the lower rated tenants and some of their success may have come from the low interest rate environment over a prolonged period of time so moving up the credit curve over the next five to 10 years is not a bad place to be.
So we are putting more effort there.
And it's some nice discussions with some very large corporations just about how they view the world and we hope going into the next year that that will be additive.
The initial moves we had here with some industrial and distribution and manufacturing was really a function of the two transactions Diageo and then secondarily the ECM.
But now we're trying to get granular with those people.
But as is it when you go into a new line here it's going to take a year or two or three.
We'll have better clarity of exactly what's going be but we're active.
There are no further questions at this time.
This concludes the question-and-answer session for the Realty Income conference call.
Mr.
Lewis please continue.
As always thank you very much for the attention.
We appreciate it and we look forward to talking to you again at one of the industry meetings or in the next 90 days when we do this again.
Thanks so much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Please disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tom Lewis.
Go ahead sir.
Thank you Joe.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our conference call.
We will go throw the operations and results for the third quarter and year to-date.
With me in the ring today as usually is Gary Malino our President Paul Meurer our EVP and CFO John Case our EVP and Chief investment Office and Mike 	Pfeiffer our EVP and General Counsel.
And as always during this call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law and the company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in the forward-looking statements we’ll disclose in greater detail in the company’s Form 10-Q the factors that could cause the differences.
And as usual Mr.
Meurer will start with the review of the numbers   Thanks Tom.
As usual let me go through the financial statements briefly provide a few highlights of the financial results for the quarter starting with income statement.
Total revenue increased 23.6% to $107.39 million this quarter versus $86.8 million during the third quarter of last year.
This obviously reflected a significant amount of new acquisitions over the past year but also positive same store rent increases for the quarterly period of 1.8%.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased by $7.9 million in the comparative quarter as depreciation expense increases obviously as our property portfolio continues to grow.
Interest expense increased by just over $3.4 million this increase was due primarily to the June issuance of $150 million of notes in the reopening of our 2035 bond but also because of the $96.6 million credit facility balance at quarter end.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remain strong; interest coverage is now at 3.9 times and fixed charge coverage now at 2.9 times.
General administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the third quarter were $7.1 million representing 6.7% of total revenues as compared to $6.2 million during the third quarter of last year which represented 7.1% of total revenues at that time.
Our G&amp;A expense has increased a bit as our acquisition activity has increased and we have invested in some new personnel for future growth.
This quarter’s G&amp;A was also impacted by the expensing of $233 000 worth of acquisition due diligence cost.
Our current projection for G&amp;A for 2011 is approximately $30 million which will represent only about 7% of total revenues.
Property expenses decreased to just under $1.7 million for the quarter.
These expenses are primarily associated with the taxes maintenance and insurance expenses which we are responsible for on properties available for lease.
Our current estimates for all of 2011 is about $7.5 million.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the company and they were $367 000 during the quarter.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled just over $3.1 million.
This income was associated with our property sales activity during the quarter.
Our Crest subsidiary did not acquire or sell any properties in the quarter.
We did sell 12 properties from our core portfolio resulting in gain on sales of $3.1 million and a reminder that these property sales gains are not included in our FFO or in our AFFO calculation.
Preferred stock cash dividends remains at $6.1 million and net income available to common stockholders increased to approximately $34.7 million for the quarter.
Funds from operations or FFO increased 32.6% to $63.4 million for the quarter.
FFO per share increased 8.7% to $0.50 for the quarter.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO are the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividends was higher at $0.51 per share for the quarter and our AFFO is usually higher than our FFO because our capital expenditures are fairly low and we have minimal straight line rent in the portfolio.
We increased our cash monthly dividend again this quarter we’ve increased the dividend 56 consecutive quarters and 63 times overall since we went public over 17 years ago this month.
Our dividend pay-out ratio for the quarter was 87% of our FFO and 85% of our AFFO.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we have continued to maintain a conservative and safe capital structure.
In September as you know we raised just over $200 million of new capital in a common stock offering.
Our current debt to total market capitalization is only 28% and our preferred stock outstanding represents to 5% of our capital structure.
And as I mentioned we have $96.6 million of borrowing on our $425 million credit facility.
We have no debt maturities until 2013 and so in summary we currently have excellent liquidity and overall balance sheet remains very healthy and safe.
Let me turn the call now back to Tom who will give you a little bit background on these results.
Thanks Paul.
I will start with the portfolio which performed very well during the third quarter operations continued to improve across portfolio.
At the end of the quarter our largest 15 tenants accounted for 51.2% of our revenue that was down a little bit from last quarter and the average cash flow coverage to store level for those 15 tenants remains fairly high at 2.41 times during the quarter.
We ended the third quarter at 97.7% occupancy and 59 properties available for lease out of the -- this is unusual where even number and number of properties 2 600 properties and that’s up about 40 basis points and occupancy from the second quarter and up about a 130 basis points for the same period a year ago.
In the quarter we had only six new vacancies and then we lease ourselves 15 properties and obviously added to the portfolio and that’s the reason for the increase in the occupancy but obviously very healthy at 97.7%.
My sense is we should look for some moderation in occupancy in the fourth quarter and that’s primarily due to a number of lease rollovers that occurred at the beginning of the quarter.
There were 18 that came off lease and sometimes these rollovers get a bit lumpy and that was the case this quarter.
And then a 15 Friendly’s properties we got back.
Our best estimate right now is about 97% of our occupancy at the end of the fourth quarter.
And then we would anticipate as we re-lease those properties that came off the rollover and Friendly’s that would go back up in the first quarter of next year but a good guess is 97%.
Same-store rents on the core portfolio increased 1.8% during the third quarter that’s same as the second quarter and 1.5% year-to-date that’s a very healthy number for us in that lease company.
And if you wanted to look across portfolio kind of where the increases and decreases came from we had only four industries that have declining same-store rents during the quarter that was office supplies child care auto service and book stores but was a very small decline of only $50 000.
Two of the industries were flat and then 23 had same-store rent increases with the majority coming from motion picture theaters and convenient stores and then to kind of my surprise casual dining restaurants and motor vehicle dealerships both of those as a function of.
During the recession we had some rent reductions we did for those tenants and those burned off their businesses come back very nicely and that’s the reason that happened this quarter even though I think their fundamentals may not be a representative of that we did see the rent go up.
The balance of the industries had fairly small increases during the quarter but the 23 industries together had increases of about $1.45 million per net gain of $1.4 million.
And obviously the occupancy gains and things for rent increases over the last four quarters have been very healthy and it continued in the third quarter.
A relative to diversification obviously up to 2600 properties at the end of the quarter that is up 77 properties from last quarter 38 different industries 134 multiple unit tenants in 49 states.
From an industry exposure standpoint we continue to diversify with 38 industries that’s up six from the same period a year ago.
And our major concentrations of the top couple came down a bit.
Convenient stores were 18.3% that’s down about 70 basis points from last quarter.
And then restaurant is a little less than last quarter also at 17.3%.
Theaters were up a bit at 140 basis points to 9.2% that’s a function of some recent acquisitions and then health and fitness which is 6.1% then the only other category that are over 5% today is beverages at 5.6% automotive tire stores which have been along with convenient stores both at 5.2% and those were much larger concentrations going back quite a ways.
So pretty good shape by industry the large is tenants switch this quarter to AMC theatres to 5.4% and again that’s a function of some acquisitions.
Diageo second at 5% and then everything else is under 5%.
I mentioned our 15 largest tenants are 52% of rent.
When you can get to the 15th largest tenant as you can see in the release its about 2.2% and goes down from there and when you get to the 20th largest tenant you are only about 1.5% of rent.
So we continue to diversify the portfolio.
That’s also true from a geographic standpoint.
Still in 49 states everywhere but Hawaii.
Average remaining lease length in the portfolio at 11.1 year remains pretty healthy so obviously good quarter for the portfolio.
As we look forward kind of in the next year we thing expectations for economic growth not withstanding higher than expected GP numbers today that have moderated over the last couple of quarters and I think that will lead us to be a little more cautious about the portfolio going into 2012.
If we look across the retail landscape I think most of us deserve that the kind of high end and retail are holding up well.
We don’t have a lot of that.
At the low end it is tough in retail but the dollar stores and the value retailers club stores seem to be doing pretty well serving that market.
And as we look out there and in areas that might highlight some concern I think it’s really in the consumer discretionary area to the middle and lower class and you can see their businesses being stretched a bit.
Some of it margin compression is there as the cost go up.
But if you look in to areas like casual dinning and similar electronics auto supplies we think those are all worth watching.
Fortunately most of our portfolio is in the basic needs type of businesses with the tires stores auto service C-stores that type of things which are doing pretty well.
But looking at the portfolio absent Friendly’s nothing is popped up that gives us concern from a tenant standpoint.
But we adjusted our expectations a bit for the portfolio.
And in the guidance for 2012 is our expected impact from the Friendly’s filing.
And as well we also added into the estimate an expectation of additional filings of tenants equal to about 5% of revenue with what has been our normal recovery rates over time.
And while we don’t know would be we just think in an environment the little tough in retail it was good for us to do that in our guidance.
We also in the guidance assume that none of the properties come back from Friendly or the other tenants would be leased during 2012.
So I think that we have been conservative in our estimates relative to the portfolio.
That now we understanding we still think that our occupancy will remain very high in 2012 in the 97% range and we will have to see that works out.
But overall we think we will have high occupancy.
Moving on the property acquisitions obviously a very strong quarter and year for acquisition and I'll let John Case our Chief Investment Officer comment on kind of what we bought and what the environment is.
Our acquisitions activity continue to be robust in the third quarter.
We acquired 89 properties for approximately $462 million making the third quarter or second most active quarter for acquisitions in our company’s history.
The average initial lease yield on these investments was just the shade over 8.1% and the average lease term is approximately 10 years.
Properties are diversified by geography and industry and property type.
They are located in 15 states are 100% lease the nine tenants in seven different industries and represent three property types with our traditional retail investments accounting for just over 88% in the third quarter acquisition volume.
The industries are automotive collision services food processing how to get quick service restaurant theaters transportation services and hotel plus.
Of the $462 million that we acquired in the third quarter a $189 million is part of the $544 million diversified net-leased portfolio acquisition we announced in the first quarter.
At the third quarter end we had closed $525 million of the $544 million acquisition during the first second and third quarter.
The final $19 million of the portfolio should close in this quarter.
So for the first three quarters of 2011 then we have acquired a 125 properties for $826 million with an average initial lease yield of approximately 8% and an average lease term of about eleven and a half years.
The properties are leased to 20 commercial tenants in 15 different industry segments.
The $826 million in acquisitions we have completed in the first three quarters the most we have completed in any previously full calendar year.
For the entire year we expect to complete just over $850 million in acquisitions at an average initial yield of about 8%.
So we continue to be pleased with our acquisitions activity.
As we look forward acquisitions transaction flow remained strong.
With the high-yield and CNDS markets cooling off since this year property owners continue to turn to the sale lease back market for liquidity.
There continues to be significant competition with property portfolios with multiple sources with a good bit of capital.
But we should continue to be competitive in the marketplace.
We are currently seeing opportunities in all of our property type and in a wide variety of industry from tenant.
The majority of our current acquisition opportunities are in our traditional retail property.
Initial yields and cap rate seem to be holding steady for now ranging from the mid 7% area for high credit tenants up to the low 9% range for some of the smaller non-investment grade tenant property.
We continue to believe that our initial yield on future acquisitions should average right around 8%.
Tom? Thanks John.
I would like the higher credit tenants at 9% can you arrange that for us? Yes I will do my best.
Okay.
As John mentioned the pace of transactions we look that has been very good and obviously we have gotten enough of share over the last 18 months or so and that's let do a couple of year-to-year record acquisitions.
But I also want to note that that level has been very heavily impacted by a few large transactions if you recall the Diageo we have done over $300 million.
The ECM portfolio earlier in the year is $544 million and then there were several others that equated to about a half a billion dollars and those transactions account pretty much for the majority of the acquisitions that we have done this year and last year.
And so I just want caution to extrapolate that out and assume the same things happen in 2012 might be aggressive.
And aggressive assumption we said for many years kind of being out there in the business you do.
25 to 35 a quarter by being in the business and if you do a run rate that works up to $100 million or $200 million a year.
And then it’s really a function of whether we grab 0 1 2 3 or a couple of larger transaction and while lately we have obviously had a bunch of them each year it kind of unfolds with last two years itself.
I think more than our fair of share.
So for our planning purposes and our guidance for some acquisitions for next year we are assuming $315 million of acquisitions of what we are using in guidance that an age cape rate and obviously it could be more but that’s a I think a good number to start with.
We'll adjust as 2012 develops.
But the transaction flow remains very robust currently.
As far the balance sheet and access to capital as Paul mentioned we are in fairly good shape on that.
We have only $96 million sitting on the $425 million line.
So the vast majority of the acquisitions we made this year have been permanently financed at fairly attractive rates.
And with the balance sheet in great shape with good metrics that leaves us plenty of dry powder to execute on an acquisitions to come up.
Let me go back to guidance and kind of walk through that obviously with acquisition things strong and occupancy and same-store rent up that’s been very health for FFO and AFFO numbers.
And we think that will continue to be the case the balance for this year and moving in to next year.
We did release a couple of weeks ago where we updated guidance and initiated for 2011 initiated 2012.
For this year we are estimating FFO of a $1.97 to $1.98 at 7.70% to 8.2 % FFO growth and then AFFO of $2.01 to $2.02 and that’s 8.1% to 8.6% AFFFO growth.
And as usual our AFFO Paul mentioned this but really wanted to highlight it its higher than our FFO.
And lately that’s been widening a bit which is a function of a number of the acquisitions that we made this year we are on existing properties with existing leases.
And so we had to do a FAS141 adjustment.
And in net lease generally that means that you reported cap rate when that been slightly below the actual cash you receive on the leases.
And that really is going to widen the gap to get between FFO and AFFO with AFFO being higher.
We obviously take dividends from cash so AFFO number continue to be our primary focus.
For 2012 right now you can see the estimates FFO $2.07 to $2.11 that’s about 4.5% to 7% of FFO growth.
And AFFO of $2.11 to $2.16 also about 4.5% to 7.5%.
with this growth rate the dividend payout ratio is falling down into the kind of 85% 86% 87% rate and we would achieve the guidance that would continue next year and really accelerate that.
And generally we want to keep our payout ratio in the 85% to 90% range.
So we are optimistic about additional growth in the dividend and the amount of growth looking into 2012.
I think it would be a good time for dividend increases.
I’ll take a second since we just came out with 2012 kind of walk through again the assumption that are embedded in the 2012 guidance.
As I mentioned acquisitions of $350 million at an 8% cap rate that’s less than half this year and last year.
But as I said these were exceptional years driven by some large transaction.
So I think it’s proven to keep the expectations moderated for now.
Our capital will depend on the timing of the acquisition.
Estimated property sales we put in at $25 million.
We have interest rates moving up modestly throughout the year but still very low so not a huge impact.
We’re putting occupancy kind of in the 96% 97% range and that is really where we’re reflecting the front lease plus an addition on identified tenant issues that can come up.
And again we have built into the assumptions for front lease outcome as well as it’s 5% and also the fact that we’re just assuming conservatively that it takes through 2012 to lease any of them which is a conservative assumption.
Same-store rent we modeled at about 1.50% growth which would be pretty good.
Free cash flow at $50 million.
And as I mentioned AFFO of $0.04 to $0.05 above FFO and that’s what gets us to the 4.50% to 7.50% FFO and AFFO growth rates.
To the extent that tenant issues do not materialize that obviously would be great.
Our acquisitions would have had $350 million that also would be very good.
I think we would probably take the opportunity to do some paring to the portfolio and sell some properties and move out maybe some of the tenants or properties that we think might have more exposure from an economic and interest rate standpoint going forward.
That would likely burn off a little bit of FFO during the year but really above the 4.50% to 7.50% rate that would probably be prudent and something we would like to do in the next few years.
So we think the assumptions we made are pretty good assumptions.
Really to summarize then obviously continued stability in the portfolio and a good quarter relative to occupancy and same-store rent increases.
We remain very active in acquisitions with good FFO and AFFO growth this year and I think pointing into next year one again makes us somewhat optimistic to for dividend growth.
And with that we will open it up for questions.
So Joe if you want to comeback and remind everybody how to do that again I would appreciate it.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Lindsay Schroll.
Go ahead please.
Tom I know that you mentioned casual dining rents were up.
But I was just wondering if you can discuss more to the fundamentals of that segment and if there are any other tenants that are kind of on your watch list in that segment? Yeah it’s if you look at casual dining they’re a very good example.
I was looking at some numbers yesterday relative to food prices this year that have been moving up pretty aggressively.
And if you look at the grocers they’ve been able to pass a lot of that on I think was about 6% increases in food prices at grocery stores.
But if you look at restaurants they haven’t been able to pass it on and consumers have been pretty tied with their wallets wallet to the restaurants.
And so you’re seeing their cost move up and they’re not able to pass it on.
And I think it’s really starting to wear on their margins.
And so that’s one area that’s kind of upfront for us.
And we think other areas in consumer discretion that are impacted by commodity cost are similar.
The other ones and I also mentioned is if you just look at kind of the big box that tends to be discretionary purchase.
We look at them and you continue to see the growth of Internet retailing and that’s kind of front and center right now as we move into the holidays and we think their business could be a little weak.
But it’s primarily consumer discretionary middle class lower class and I try to light on restaurants.
Normally fast food does very well in a downturn but I think even they’re having trouble kind of passing it all along.
Okay.
And then just turning to acquisitions what do you think in the macro environment can change that would potentially shutdown some of the opportunities you’re seeing decrease the flow? I think it would take a pretty good drop in the economy on one side.
But John mentioned the high yield market while it’s had a little bit of resurgence in the last week or so has been weak but still breathing and CMBS has been very weak.
And a lot of times Paul has used the term we like those markets breathing but not too robust because it helps transactions to happen and yet it makes our type of financing very attractive.
And even though they’ve been very weak we found that people have really started turning to net lease.
So those markets came back very strong.
It would be a mixed bag.
I think we would see a lot more transaction activity out there.
But the debt markets would be much more competitive.
So that’s one thing to watch or if we just get a big double dip and the economy pull us down.
But it’s a fairly active environment for people viewing their real estate as a source of capital today are very active.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber.
Go ahead please.
First of all John would you be able to comment a little bit further in your press release a couple of weeks ago and you alluded to it again today about the 5% of rents that you were looking at.
Can you just talk about what sectors you’ve seen I guess get the worse over the last six to nine months and which ones would also have the tightest net coverage today? Yeah I think the tightest rent coverage you come back to casual dining and kind of the restaurant sector overall.
And again as I just said that’s where the margin compression is going on.
So that’s kind of front and center as we look at it.
And as we put that in there we have a couple decent size exposures.
But tenant gets into a lot of little ones.
And so that wasn’t meant to be somebody at 5% it could be one at 5% two at 2.50% and we just thought it was it’s time to be a little more conservative in that area.
But restaurants are kind of front and center but when you get out of basic human needs kind of a C-stores and the rest of it it’s I think their business is weakening a little bit and I was buoyed by things and higher GDP numbers but I’m not sure if I’m really believe them we will see how that revise.
I mean following on that would you say that most of the bankruptcies that we have seen year-to-date in casual dining have actually been a case of landlord so far is that trend starting to work a little bit? What two are you referring to? The Mexican dining with most of the markets not necessarily in the Reality Income? Oh yes yes yes there was Realmax and that’s (inaudible) and Falcao.
We didn’t pay that much attention to it but they are kind of larger billings like that hurt a bit.
It’s been a pretty good year as we said throughout the year was pretty quite out there.
But I think in the restaurant industry particularly you can see some more but so far it is been pretty good for the landlords and continued for us.
We keep her running tall bankruptcies and if you look at the fourth quarter I have only got four on my list and I have got five in the third quarter and before that there would be 8 or 10 or 12 in retail.
So it’s been a fairly short list and so not a lot to work with recently.
We think we will work out pretty well in the one we are working on and generally if you didn’t over paid too much it shouldn’t be that bad.
So I don’t want to ring a bell that everything is getting negative it’s just it’s really been nearly quite for about a year here in the portfolio and it was nice to see the economy come back a bit.
But it’s not really running forward hard with some commodity price increases we just kind of saying somebody got to be impacted by this if they are not able to pass through to the consumer ultimately those costs.
Well I guess the fourth quarter is still young so.
It’s still young.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman.
Go ahead please.
Hi it’s Greg Schweitzer here with Michael Citigroup.
Tom as you continue diversifying and increasing industry exposure to new areas apart from some key new hires is that anything new you are doing or investing in internally to better manage or handle the increase and improve core competency there? Yes I mean we have hired people on research and then we have hired people that have background in those areas and we continue to work very hard on all of that a lot of it is just expanding a corporate underwriting we have done for many years in retail and fortunately our people are – credit people being trained in and able to move outside of retail pretty good.
The other area that we will down the road is portfolio management but that’s something that really comes later we have 28 people in that department which is up substantially in the last 7 8 years dealing with retail so we would anticipate if you look for five years down the road we will have to widen it there.
But it’s really three four people on acquisitions who have some background in that and then a couple of people in research.
Okay.
And anything you could discuss related to the impact from Friendly's and the press is going on there? Really not that much I think just for anybody I think most people are aware that Friendly's filed a couple of weeks ago and we have 121 properties that are about 3.6% of rent.
We bought starting 10 years ago 138 and 140 of those units we sold off a number of them which got us down to the 121 to-date.
They filed rejected 15 properties which equates to about $1.3 million of rent which we will have now available to us to go back and release.
But as its normal in these processes I think this is the 24<sup>th</sup> filing we have had since going public of this type and we’ve got fairly strong retention rates of rents up in the 80% and generally we feel pretty good about these processes we have done a lot of them.
But now we have to just wait and let it work.
There kind of two issues that will go on.
One is obviously as we work through this process there are some negotiation that goes on.
So talking about what we would perceive as an eventual outcome is not probably the best strategy there.
And then we found it very useful to try and stay very involved in the process and our General Counsel is Co-Chair of the Creditors Committee and obviously that requires non-disclosure agreements as it goes through the process in the Court of Delaware.
But as the Court decides anything that can be seen publicly and then over the next few quarters if this works out we will fully report.
We feel pretty good about the properties we own relative to the profitability of what we have paid and with expectations we’ll pretty well.
And we did build that end of the disclosure as well as some assumptions that there would be other one next year.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya.
Go ahead please.
Quick question if we were to come up with – if 2012 ends up being an Utopian World where you don’t see a lot of retail bankruptcies this and you take out this 5% of rent that you kind of put at risk in your2012 guidance by how much would guidance grow up? Well I think it’d probably go back up to where everybody pretty much have it before we first guided and which is lower but as I’ve said earlier Tayo and there is one analyst I know who has talked about capital recycling a lot which is you I think that’s something that’s coming up and the level and the amount of capital recycling we can do which I think does burn off some FFO if things are better and there isn’t as much tenant activity and if acquisitions are a little higher I think we’d take the opportunity to do and then hopefully stay about where we are today.
So I think that’s a – I can say it’s slower but that was a message we are trying to give.
Okay so basically say things were better on the retail side you may take it as an opportunity to divest a few more assets and that include some dilutions in net-net it would still kind of – you would still kind of end up where you are? That would be our expectation.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of RJ Milligan.
Please go ahead.
Tom question for you on the 350 for next year in terms of acquisitions at least as a ballpark or the way to think about it how much of that do you think is going to be non-retail or can you tell us how you think about that? And John you want to comment relative to kind of transaction flow and legacy in [ph].
Yeah I will tell you sort of what we are currently seeing right now is predominantly retail and we are seeing in queue investment grade distribution centers but we would expect obviously based on what we are seeing now 80% of our acquisitions next year could be retail oriented acquisitions in our traditional industries and property types.
But that can change with one large significant portfolio.
Yeah as you predict.
Yeah if you look at this year its kind of interesting 55% of what we’ve acquired to-date is retail 21% distribution 17% office 6% manufacturing and 1% to 2% industrial.
But the vast majority of that came through that one transaction with ECM and its interesting thus over the last quarter or two we thought we could see moderation in the number of kind of traditional retail transactions come up and they are actually accelerating a bit so we have to take this transaction flow right now and look forward it would be heavily retail or the smattering of some investment grade in other areas but as John said one transaction can change that.
Is there a specific non-retail property type that’s more attractive to you or is it just the credit quality? It’s well – it’s very much credit quality when we move outside of retail because in retail you can have the four walled EBITDA cash flow coverage which can give you a lot of protection even when working with some weaker tenants and when you get outside of retail you can get at a case only but it’s a little harder to tie down so we think its absolutely necessary to go up the curve and then kind of our greatest comfort level to-date relative to the other areas has been distribution.
As we’ve done with Diageo there is a fair amount of the agriculture that you see ended up 4.6% its pretty much all the Diageo.
That’s very comfortable that’s a function of where it is and who the tenant is.
So I would say tenant first and going up the credit curve to investment grade and when we get outside of retail and that’s our intention and distribution most comfortable out of - of that group and probably manufacturing industrial after that probably office last.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik.
Go ahead please.
Just a question I guess is the plan still to get up to sort of 20% to 30% of the portfolio in non-retail over the medium term? Yeah that - for us that’s a ballpark four to five year feeling and its one of those things or once you are – well that’s what’s the objective and so 20% is a good initial number when we are off to a good start but it is so underwriting specific that the number could freeze where it is if we weren’t able to pull good investment grade stuff in but if we were able to pull investment grade in then higher would be okay too because there is a strong desire to do two things right now one is when working within retail to have even higher cash flow coverages up above 2.5 where I think over the last few years its been in the 2.3 million to 2.5 million and or go up the credit curve.
And that’s really a function of looking forward and understanding in the last 20 years that a lot of these less and less NAREIT retailers have to wend at their back if you were in a declining interest rate environment.
And if you look forward we’re fairly close to zero to-date in interest rates.
And so the expectation that you might have see a higher interest rates in the future were kind of undertaking a big project to look at the impact for all of our tenants if they had to refinance their balance sheets over five to ten year period at 300 basis points higher in permanent financing costs and 600 basis points higher.
So to the extent that we’re working on retail we would like higher coverages and to the extent we can we would like to go up the credit curve whether it’s in or out of retail.
Okay.
And as you get some of those higher credit tenants in the portfolio does that change your outlook on your use of leverage at all? At the moment not right now I think we’re okay to use leverage right now.
We’ve been reducing it a bit as you’ve seen debt fall from about 35% down to 27% 28%.
But we’re more focused on the maturities of that.
If you start again worrying about interest rates over five to ten years you look at your maturity schedule.
So we’re fine adding debt like we did earlier in the year where we opened up $150 million of our 2035.
So we’re comfortable with more leverage a little bit more leverage.
So if we’re going to do we would like the duration to be fairly lengthy but don’t want it to get too high.
Okay.
So in terms of sort of an average leverage that we could look at historically it probably wouldn’t increase much even though you will have higher credit tenants on thereafter? Yeah we put the Board put a policy in 1994 when we went public 17 years ago that we didn’t want leverage debt over 35% kind of gross assets market cap and we didn’t want preferred over 10% and we stayed inside of that and that hasn’t changed.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And probably looking forward to see you in Chicago in a couple of weeks and get our management behind (inaudible) conference.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Moore.
Please go ahead.
Following up on that for a second knowing how much you guys hit at should we think in terms of you guys clearing of the acquisition line here given the market was up gigantic today if it keeps going like this I mean clearing with common equity at some point or do you have to wait until to gets maybe it gets say half full something like that? Yeah generally we would like it to get up $150 million plus before we do something.
And we just did a fair amount of equity we’ve done kind of four in the last year it’s just under $1 billion and well the prices were very good and they were very accretive transaction relative to the impact to cash flow.
And we’re not in a hurry to rush into one right now.
And so we would like to do some additional acquisitions build the line of debt and then watch for things go.
We took the opportunity this year to add to the equity base substantially.
Okay good.
Thanks.
And then I want to go back for a second to your comments Tom about about getting rid of stuff as times get better.
I mean it sounds like you look at different segments of what you have maybe consumer discretionary or casual dining as a whole group that’s something you might get rid of maybe do a portfolio transaction that’s a couple of hundred properties is that how we should think about that? My sense is is in this business when you have a large portfolio and you’re trying to put it out and at the best price.
You do that better on a one-off basis kind as you go along one at a time.
That was our experience we learned from Crest when we bought 30 40 at a time put them out one at a time and that’s how we would probably want to do it.
So we’ve got out of the tenant base maybe 70 tenants of decent size and we’re going through and passing them very carefully given a lot of metrics and refinance the balance sheet and how we feel about the industry and our position with them and how much debt when it comes to a wide variety of metrics.
And then rating from top to bottom and if you put them into kind of four quartiles and looked at the bottom quartile you would say cheap.
We’re going to be lovely five to ten years from now those one in the portfolio and then you’ve to look at your growth rates and making sure you deliver for the investors while you’re doing it and to the extent that acquisitions are good the portfolio performs you can do that at accelerated rate.
And that if it doesn’t maybe at a little slower rate.
So I think it will be just picking out really a group of tenants in the lower quartile and then there is a separate project we have to take all 2600 properties and put a rating on them for the market they’re in for what we paid for what the cash flow coverages are how much we’ve less than lease and when you marry those two together ultimately they become a mix of tenant and property but over the coming years we would like to accelerate those sales but it will be a function of how much we can do and still maintain a decent growth rate and dividend growth.
Okay okay.
But the lower quartile is about 650 properties.
So we should think maybe if you really get going on this you could do 100 in a year is that what’s you’re thinking? I think it’s possible but I don’t think that’s in the cards at all for 2012 and that’s probably aggressive for 2013.
But it will all depend on the growth rate because if you’re adding a lot on the high credit side it gives you a lot of flexibility to still pose pretty good numbers and accelerate it.
But there were years in Crest where I think we had $130 million as inventory in 2007 and we got it all out of the door in about a year.
And those were in right sized properties of $1 million to $2 million.
So we’ve done it before but I wouldn’t look forward to ’12 because we’re still crunching the numbers and in the middle of the analysis.
Our next question comes from the line Todd Stender.
Go ahead please.
Your assumptions for next year Tom you’re talking about interest rates picking up does that mean initial lease yields they just go or is there a longer lag maybe that’s more of 2013 event just in your estimations? Great question.
I would assume if our guys lag because that’s almost always what happen you’ll start seeing your line cost rising and we -- it hasn’t been happening but we put I think 10 basis points in for it to go up on a regular basis.
And so your line cost go first your permanent financing cost go second and the net lease cap rates tend to lag that’s true on the way up and the way down.
So for modeling for us or anybody in the business that be our best cap that’s what we’ve seen over the years.
Thanks.
And the ECM deal it came with some secured debt.
Do you have your sale with that right now; if you sell a portfolio would that be a deal breaker what’s -- what are your comments on that? Well I think Paul said $64 million or $68 million.
$67 million.
$67 million.
There was $90 million we thought we would be left with but we’ve been to pair that down.
And so $67 million you said.
So we’re about $67 million above where we would like to be.
And but that doesn’t mean we wouldn’t if a portfolio came in and have some secured debt we take it but as we do hit here we will do our debt immediately to payoff everything that we can payoff without it being just a huge economic drain and then paying off the balance as fast as we can.
So we don’t want to say it will preclude us from doing a portfolio but at the same time we’re not looking to add it and we would like to get rid of it as soon as we can.
We like a unsecured balance sheet strategy.
As far as your underwriting new deals are rent coverages being adjusted higher as well then you have less visibility on how the company cash flows are going to look next 18 24 months? Yeah if you look at the cash flow coverages on our recent purchases they’ve been 20 30 40 basis points higher than the last few years.
So you’re really looking up in the very high twos as where we’re pointing into the threes if we can get it.
But and it changes from industry to industry but we’ve been trying to really adjust that up because that’s the kind of lesson that’s investment grade retail and then obviously up in the other areas we’re looking for investment grade credit.
Thank you.
That concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn it back to Mr.
Tom Lewis for any closing comments.
Thank you very much.
I know it’s a busy earning season and we appreciate the time spent and look forward to seeing many of you coming up at NAREIT some other function.
Thank you very much and thank you Joe.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Realty Income third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
If you would like to listen to a replay of today’s conference please dial 1-800-406-7325 and enter the code 4480899.
Again I would like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today February 9 2012.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host for today Mr.
Tom Lewis CEO or Realty.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Joe.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our conference call.
We will go throw the operations and results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
In the room with me as usually is Gary Malino our President Chief Operating Officer Paul Meurer our EVP and CFO John Case our EVP and Chief Investment Office and Mike Pfeiffer our EVP and General Counsel and Terry Miller our Vice President Corporate Communications.
And as always during this call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
Company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in the forward-looking statements and we will disclose in greater detail in the company’s Form 10-Q the factors that could cause those differences.
And we will start as we always do with the numbers Paul? Thanks Tom.
So as usual I will provide some brief comments on our financial statements and provide some highlights of the financial results for both the quarter and the year starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 23.6% for the quarter and 22.6% for the year.
Our revenue for the quarter was $114 million or approximately $456 million on an annualized basis.
This obviously reflects the significant amount of new acquisitions over the past year and positive same store rent in our portfolio increases per year of 1.3%.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased by about $9.5 million in the comparative quarterly period as depreciation expense increased obviously as our property portfolio continue to grow.
Interest expense increased by just under $3.9 million and this increase was due primarily to the June issuance of $150 million of notes in the reopening of our 2035 bond as well as the $237 million of credit facility borrowings which we had at year end.
On a related note our coverage ratios do remain strong with interest coverage at 3.5 times and fixed charge coverage at 2.9 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the fourth quarter were $7.95 million or 7% of total revenues.
Our G&amp;A expense has increased as our acquisition activity has increased.
And we invested in some new personnel for future growth.
G&amp;A was also impacted by the expensing of acquisition to diligent cost $357 000 during the quarter and a total of $1.5 million in expense during the year.
Our current projection for G&amp;A for 2012 is approximately $33 million which will continue to present only 7% of total revenue.
Property expenses were $2.3 million for the quarter and $7.4 million for the year.
These in course of the expenses primarily associated with the tax of maintenance and insurance one properties where we are responsible for those expenses and properties available for lease.
Our current estimate for 2012 is similar at about $7.5 million.
Income tax consistent income tax paid to various dates by the company there were $367 000 during the quarter.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $1 million and this income is associated with our property sales activity during the quarter.
We did sell five properties resulted in a gain on sales of $1.2 million during the quarter and a reminder that we do not include these property sales gains in our AFFO or in our FFO.
Preferred stock cash dividend remained at $6.1 million for the quarter and net income available to common stock holders increased to approximately $34.9 million for the quarter.
Funds from operations or FFO per share increased 8.5% to $0.51 for the quarter and 8.2% to $1.98 for a year.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO are also bad but the extra cash we had available for distribution and dividend was higher higher than FFO and it increased 8.3% to $0.52 for the quarter and 8.1% to $2.01 per share for the year.
Our AFFO will continue to be higher than our FFO and its differential between our AFFO and FFO will continue to increase.
Our capital expenditures are fairly low we have minimum straight line rent in our portfolio and we believe we will continue to have some FAS141 non-cash reductions to FFO due to in place leases that we acquire in large portfolio transactions that we do.
In addition in 2012 we will have a $3.7 million non-cash charge to FFO for the redemption of our preferred D stock representing approximately $0.027 per share in FFO.
Our 2012 AFFO earnings projection is $2.07 and $2.12 per share or an increase of 3% to 5.5% over our 2011 AFFO per share of $2.01.
We increased our cash monthly dividend again this quarter we have increased dividend 57 consecutive quarters and 64 times overall since we went public over 17 years ago.
And of course as we announced this week we have not declared 500 consecutive monthly dividends over the past 42 years.
Our dividend payout ratio for the quarter was 85% of our funds from operations and about 84% of our AFFO.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we have continued to maintain a conservative and very safe capital structure.
This week we closed on our recent preferred stock offering which raised over $373 million in gross proceeds at a coupon rate of 6 5/8%.
We were very pleased with the strong investor demand in the offering and we very much appreciate the underwriters who supported us and did a terrific job on this offering.
User proceeds will be to repay our outstanding 7 3/8% class D preferred stock which will save us $1 million cash expense annually and also to pay off all of our acquisition credit facility borrowing.
Our balance sheet continues to be well positioned to support our acquisition growth.
Our current debt to total market capitalization now is only 25% and our preferred stock outstanding still represents only 8% of our capital structure.
Our $425 million credit facility did have $237 million of borrowings at year end.
But as I mentioned we used the preferred proceeds this week to pay off all of those borrowings on the facility.
We had no debt maturities until 2013.
So in summary we currently have excellent liquidity and our overall balance sheet remains very healthy and stable.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tom who will give you a little bit more background on these results.
Great I will start with the portfolio.
During the fourth quarter the portfolio continue to generate very consistent cash flow.
At the end of the quarter our largest 15 tenants accounted for about 49.8% of our revenue that’s down 480 basis points from the same period a year ago and 220 basis points from the third quarter.
So our acquisition efforts continue to help us reduce our concentrations in the portfolio getting that down to 49.8.
The average cash flow coverage at the store level for those top 15 tenants which we mentioned each time was right at 242 times so very healthy.
We ended the fourth quarter with 96.7% occupancy and 87 properties available for lease out of the 2634 in the portfolio that is down about 100 basis points from the third quarter and up about 10 basis points for the same period a year ago.
During the quarter we had 43 new vacancies 25 of those came from expirations at the end of the lease and that is a little higher number than usual but occasionally with the expirations it gets a little bit lumpy and that was the case in the quarter.
We also had 18 which were defaults primarily related to Friendly’s we also leased or sold 15 properties during the quarter and also added properties portfolio which is how you get to the 96.7% number.
If we look forward into the first quarter I think it was about phase filing and as we begin leasing the properties up that they are on the vacancy list we could see another 20 or 30 basis points decline in occupancy down to around 96.5 or 96.4% is the best estimate right now.
And then we would anticipate that we would see occupancy increasing from there over the next few quarters as we really generate more leasing activity on these.
Let me take a moment and kind of walk through how we calculate occupancy and then give you some color on it.
For the last 18 years or so we calculated occupancy by taking the number of vacant properties we had which was 87 and dividing that by the number of buildings that we have in the portfolio which was 2634 and that’s pretty simple methodology that gives us 3.3% vacancy and 96.7% occupancy.
For a number of years now internally we would run occupancy a couple of other ways.
Just eyeballed the numbers other ways to take it just on a square footage basis instead of property where we take the vacant square footage and divide it by the total square footage in the portfolio.
Another way to do it is on a dollar basis which was to take what was the previous ramp on any properties that are vacant and divide that by the sum of that number and the ramps on all of the occupied properties and that gives us to you on a dollar basis and we’ve run all three methods for quite a while and generally they would be around the same numbers as historically our building sizes and kind of rents for property overall were pretty consistent.
However in the last few years as we bought some larger properties that is skewed the numbers and we also have about 4.5% of the portfolio now in agricultural land that have no buildings on it yet are under long-term leases.
And so we are getting some variance in the three different methods of it.
Somebody recently asked me when I said occupancy they said it’s physical or economic and well I don’t wasn’t quite sure what their version of economic occupancy was we thought we would go ahead and provide all three numbers.
Then again the traditional way is 87 properties vacant 2634 total and that’s a 3.3 vacancy rate and a 96.7% occupancy rate.
If you do buy square footage the total vacant square footage is 746 000 square feet you divide that by the 27 369 000 square feet in the portfolio that gives us a 2.7% vacancy and 97.3% occupancy rate.
And then the last way if you take the former contractual rent in the fourth quarter for the vacant property it was about 2.48 million and if you combine that and the rent on the occupied property of $113 you will get $115.78 million and then if you divided that back into the $2.48 million that will give you a vacancy of 2.1% at an occupancy of 97 9 on a dollar basis.
So you can pick your own number we will for historical continuity continue to report it on the fiscal occupancy number but make those other numbers available and I will figure out how to get them into our reporting and then mention him on the calls if anybody wants to know what they are.
Obviously all three are fairly close and represent fairly high occupancy.
Same store rents on the portfolio increased 1.1% during the fourth quarter which was in the kind of average range in our mind for the year since rents increased 3.3% taken a look at where those came from during the year we had three of the industries declining same store rents in the portfolio book stores was one automotive services and quick service restaurant which was fast food but it was relatively modest decline of only about 492 000 so fairly small.
Two industries have flat same store rents that was drug stores and transportation services which was fairly new to the portfolio.
And then 24 industries saw some same store rent increases the majority of that kind of going from highest to lowest was increases was movie theaters motor vehicle dealerships casual dining restaurants convenient stores sporting goods automotive tire and health and fitness.
In the balance we are fairly small increase in those numbers casual dining restaurants and motor vehicle dealerships making surprising relative to a contribution for the same store rent increases.
But I would note we gave a few temporary rent reductions to a few of those tenants in those industries during the recession those expired and that’ what caused the increases in those industries and it’s not a trend we would think it’s going to continue.
And again the balance of the increase is fairly small increase.
The 24 increase industries together had a total increase of about $4.7 million and that gets to a net gain of $4.25 million in same store rent.
Diversification in the portfolio continues to widen we are in 38 industries that’s up 6 from a year ago.
Concentrations in the industries continue to climb convenient stores is our largest at 17.2% that’s down 110 basis points from last quarter and we think we will continue to bring that one down.
Restaurants if you combine both casual dining and the quick service are little less than last quarter now at 16.4% that’s down 90 basis points from last quarter casual dining is now under 10% at 9/8 it’s down about 110 basis points from the last quarter.
Quick service fast food was up about 20 basis points to 6.6%.
The next one is Peters which rose 9.8% as we made some acquisitions this year.
Also health and fitness was up 80 basis points to about 6.9% both areas we continue to like and will likely add to.
The only other category that’s over 5% now is beverages at 5.3%.
So I think we are in very good shape relative to industry concentrations.
We’ll keep them reasonable and try and continue to lower them.
On a tenant basis the largest individual tenant at 5.3% of rent is AM Peters that’s down 10 BPs Diageo is 5% and then everything else in the portfolio is under 5% and again when you put the 15 largest together they are just under 50% 49.8% and then when you get back into the 15% it’s about 2.2% of rent and if you even went further to 20% it gets down to about 1.5% of rent and then goes down pretty quickly after that so fairly well-diversified from a tenant standpoint.
Geographically we also remain well-diversified.
The average lease term remaining is 11.3 years that’s up a little bit over the quarter with recent acquisitions.
We announced a couple of weeks ago that Friendly’s is back out and operating having completed their reorganization fairly quickly and also announced Buffets is in the process and we work with their management who we know well very quickly to structure an agreement with them.
As we said in our press release a couple of weeks ago it is subject to court’s approval and the reorganization process which is underway.
Like in the Friendly’s situation with Buffets Mike Pfeiffer our General Counsel co-chairs the creditor’s committee and we’re hopeful that a process can be completed expeditiously which I think could benefit all parties involved and we can move through that one fairly quickly.
Relative to a theme with those two I think it continues to be a difficult environment for retailers that sell discretionary goods to generally lower income consumers.
I think tenants like these two in the casual dining area will generally fit into that category in our mind.
And as we’ve mentioned we wouldn’t be surprised to see a little more softness with another tenant in that area and as the year goes on.
Fortunately our exposure to that area is modest and continues to climb although we would prefer if more of that decline was generated from asset sales and investments in other areas as a way that it declines.
The majority of the portfolio continues to do quite well and occupancy as I’ve mentioned is very high.
We’ll move on to acquisitions now.
It’s obviously a very strong year in that area and I’ll let John Case our Chief Investment Officer to comment on activities there.
All right Tom.
We remain quite active on the acquisitions front in the fourth quarter.
We acquired 39 properties for approximately $190 million.
The average in this release yield on these investments was 7.5%.
The average least term is just under 20 years.
Properties are diversified by geography tenant industry and property type.
They are located in seven states 100% leased to four tenants in four different industries and represent three property types with our traditional retail investments accounting for 86% of our funds invested during the fourth quarter.
80% of the acquisitions are leased to new tenants which further diversifies our portfolio.
In the fourth quarter we closed to file $19 million of the $544 million diversified net lease portfolio or ECM transaction we announced in the first quarter of 2011.
Our fourth quarter activity brought us to $1 billion… Is that a billion? That’s a billion Tom.
With B? With a B $1 billion in property investments for 2011 the most we’ve ever completed in a single year in dollar terms.
The billion for the year was comprised of 164 properties having initial average initial yield of 7.8% and an average lease term of 13.4 years.
The properties are leased to 22 separate tenants and 17 different industries.
We continue to be pleased with our level of acquisition activity which really helped us drive our FFO growth in 2011.
Most of you have heard Tom describe our acquisition activities lumpy before.
Well it continues to be that way.
$852 million of our 2011 acquisitions came from three large portfolio transactions.
The remaining $148 million of acquisitions came from single property and smaller portfolio opportunities.
We generally this from quarter to quarter by just being in the marketplace and this should lead to about $100 million to $150 million of acquisitions annually.
So our success on the three large portfolio has really drove our volume in 2011.
On this yearend call we usually give you an overview of the previous year’s acquisition transaction flow and provide some additional perspective.
I’m going to go slowly here because there are a lot of numbers I want to share with you.
In 2011 we sourced $13 billion in total acquisitions opportunities.
This is everything that comes in the door not all of it makes sense for us.
So of the $13 billion sourced our acquisitions team analyzed about $8 billion in opportunities in 2011 an increase of about 70% versus 2010.
Of this amount just under $3 billion was taken through our investment committee.
The $3 billion represented 1 300 properties with 45 different tenants.
Over the last 10 years our investment committee has averaged working on about $3 billion in opportunities per year ranging from a low of $1 billion to a high of $5 billion.
So 2011 was right in line with our long-term average.
The $1 billion we acquired represented 33% of what our investment committee worked on and of course was a record year for acquisitions.
Over the last 10 years on average we have acquired 15% of what our investment committee worked on.
This year’s 33% figure reflects our success in closing those three large portfolio transactions.
Our initial yields or cap rates have averaged 8.9% during the last 10 years with a high of 10.4% and a low this year of 7.8%.
Cap rates declined over this period as interest rates have declined and as net lease properties have become more main stream and more investors have entered the market.
We have historically tracked our cap rates relative to 10-year treasury yields.
Since we went public in 1994 our cap rates have averaged about 475 basis points over the corresponding 10-year treasury yields.
The 2011 average 10-year treasury yield was 2.8% so our initial yield of 7.8% was 5% over the average 10-year this past year a bit better than our long-term average.
Obviously now with the 10-year treasury yield at 2% our cap rates are closer to 5.75% over the 10-year.
Another factor impacting our cap rates is our move up the tenant credit curve the last two years.
In 2011 41% of our acquisitions are with investment grade tenants.
Our completion of these high credit tenant acquisitions reduced our overall initial yields by about 30 basis points to 40 basis points in 2011.
However our investment spreads remain very attractive to our long-term average and we improved our tenant credit profile.
Over the last 17 years our acquisition cap rate spread over our nominal cost of equity has averaged about 110 basis points.
We calculate our nominal cost of equity by taking our forward FFO yield and grossing it up for issuance costs.
Last year that spread was approximately 170 basis points.
As we have moved into 2012 our acquisitions transaction flow has continued to be quite active consistent with the volume of opportunities we were seeing in 2011.
Sellers were motivated by the significant liquidity in the net lease market.
Continued private equity and M&amp;A activity are also leading to sale lease back opportunities.
The flow is fairly evenly divided between investment grade and non-investment grade opportunities and the majority of it is in our traditional retail properties but we are seeing possibilities in all of our property types.
There continues to be significant competition for property portfolios but we should continue to be competitive in the marketplace.
Cap rates are turning down slightly from where they were in the second half of 2011 as interest rates have declined a bit.
Cap rates generally range from the low 7% area to the high 7% area for investment grade tenants and from the high 7% area to the high 8% area for non-investment grade tenants.
We currently anticipate our initial yields on acquisitions for 2012 to average around 7.75%.
Tom? John’s promise still average 7.75%.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Obviously we’re pleased with the results for 2011 in acquisitions and I think is much from by the pace of transactions just coming in the door right now that will drive what we are able to do this year and we think that will continue to play a role in obviously growing the revenue and AFFO which is what drives dividend increases.
I think secondly and equally important for us is it will also help us in adjusting the makeup of our portfolio where we’re trying to do a couple of things which is move up the credit curve with the tenant base and then also into areas both inside and outside of retail that we think want to make up a larger piece of the portfolio and going forward.
If you look at the last 24 months or so we bought about $1.7 billion of property $1 billion of it was in retail and I think much in the sector is that we think will do well if we continue with a tougher retail environment where lower income consumers continue to struggle.
$720 million of the properties we bought are into areas outside of retail that we think will do well for us and of the $1.7 billion total about $770 million was done with investment grade tenants and a good measure of the rest of the acquisitions are also up the credit curve close to investment grade and we’re pleased with that.
The other thing about it is how we’ve funded the acquisitions.
Living in a very low interest rate environment that’s largely generated by monetary policy at the federal level I think it’s easy to get lulled in to the assumption that rates will stay low which they might.
However we want to be mindful of where they could go in the future particularly if they were to go up substantially and I think that is true not only for our tenants as they would refinance their balance sheet down the road but I think also for our own balance sheet.
And one of the things we want to make sure we do is we are fairly active here in acquiring is we don’t materially add to our levels or to our near-term maturities.
So if you look at the permanent financing that we’ve done or our funding of these acquisitions over the last 24 months or so we did four equity offerings that generated gross proceeds of just over $1 billion.
We did $150 of debts that had a maturity of 20 35 and then last week we did the perpetual preferred offering which is – was $373 million.
And that is about $1.5 billion in capital and with either no maturity or a small piece of maturity there the far end of the future.
And as we think about capital we’ll continue to keep in mind that the cost to capital could be materially higher in the future and the cost of refinancing that could be an issue.
So we’ll try and take care of that in terms of how we are funding the acquisitions.
Relative to the balance sheet and access to capital we’re in very good shape.
As Paul mentioned there’s plenty of drive powder to continue to acquire.
On earning and guidance obviously the acquisitions occupancy and same-store rent increases the portfolio had in 2011 really drove the revenue FFO and AFFO and that will benefit us with the acquisitions here in 2012.
In the release a couple of weeks ago we adjusted our guidance for the preferred issuance to 201 to 205 on FFO and that included that non-cash charge that Paul talked about and then AFFO 207 to 212 and that’s 3% to 5.5% AFFO growth and that number will be our primary focus as Paul mentioned into the best we have for recurring cash flow right now.
Kind of finally before we take questions I’d be remiss if like Paul I didn’t mention the press release yesterday announcing the 500th consecutive monthly dividend.
That’s over 41 years of monthly dividends it’s a long time.
I think the company was about at 108th consecutive dividends when I came in to do due diligence in the company and met the founders Bill and John Clark.
It’s probably over 200 when I came to work here 25 years ago and I called the Clarks who are actively retired to talk to them about getting to 500 and I liked their comment which is very typical for them which was “That’s great and I hope you guys are focused on the next 500 ” which we are.
Anyway a nice milestone for the company that they founded a long time ago.
Operator we will now open it up to questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And we have a question from the line of Lindsay Schroll from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Can you guys please discuss the health of the casual dining (inaudible) overall and whether the filings by Friendly’s and Buffets are more retailer specific issues or indicative of broader industry trends? Yeah.
It’s a good question happy to do that.
We’re not overly positive on the industry to say the least.
I think a theme in almost everything we’ve looked at today is whether it’s in casual dining or somewhere else is to try and look at the consumer at that individual retailer or here restaurant is targeting because if you look at kind of the upper income consumer they are spending both discretionary and non-discretionary.
The middle market consumer which seems to be a little smaller group today is spending on non-discretionary but is really looking for value when they’re our doing discretionary spending and that includes casual dining.
And then when you get to the lower end consumer not only are they extraordinarily value-conscious on discretionary or non-discretionary they are almost aren’t spending on discretionary.
So pick your casual dining and pick who their customer is but I think for a lot of people most of those changed or appealing to the middle and lower market and it’s a tough operating environment and we think it will continue to be so.
The other thing that’s going in there over the last couple of year is also minimum wage has gone from I think $5.85 an hour up to over $7 in the quarter so they’ve seen some labor pressures and then at the same time had some commodity costs move.
But we have the industry rather – relative to further investment kind of we’re not going to do it and then we’d like to continue to reduce it as part of the portfolio because it’s an area that even though for short periods it can snap back.
We are not overly positive with it.
I’d be remiss if I didn’t note there were chains doing very well in that industry and there are but casual dining for us as we watch is an industry that we’re not going to be doing additional acquisitions in.
Okay.
And then I think you’ve talked about wanting to dispose of your office assets and I’m just wondering what demand is those versus retail if the cap rates are similar the buyer is the same.
If you can just talk about that? Yeah.
I don’t think we’re looking to dispose of it.
We don’t have much in that area and they’re with very high quality tenants.
I think it’s more of comments that that’s not something we’re looking to aggressively add to the portfolio.
In the ECM transaction we had a couple of few office buildings that came with that but it’s still a relative small part of the portfolio it’s only about 2.6% of rent.
So I wouldn’t see it increasing but currently we don’t have plans to sell the assets.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead Hi good afternoon.
I certainly hope there’s not going to be a quiz on all those numbers that you guys threw out.
Sorry about that.
That’s okay.
Just a couple of quick questions when you guys were talking about the eventual rents from releasing the Buffets and the Friendly’s deal what’s the time horizon that you’re using for releasing those assets? It varies a little.
In the Friendly’s I believe we assumed in our -- that we didn’t lease anything until late in the year or early in the next year.
We think we’ll do better with the Buffets.
We had a little more aggressive move on it because we’ve had a little better luck as we’ve gone through this recently.
Okay.
Has any of them actually been released so far? There are LOIs in place in a handful and so I think of that estimate is kind of 6 to 18 months and what that means is you’ll have some outliers that happen sooner and you’ll have some outliers that happen later than that.
Okay.
And regarding casual dining obviously we’ve talked a lot about that.
Can you talk about these sponsors of the casual diners especially the ones that you have exposure to and what their wiliness to restructure or to keep those entities going rather that bankrupt them right now? What those owner posture tends to be of today? They tend not to be 7s they tend to be 11s.
Certainly that was the case in Friendly’s and that’s the case in Buffets.
And when you think to sponsor you kind of wanted – there’s a couple of things obviously these are levered entities and one of the strategies in the toolbox of these people has been to – if the chain starts to struggle in the debt trades to a discount go into the market buy the debt and they become both the debt and equity owner and that gives us some optionality to go through an 11 continue it on the chains and do some work on the contracts other contracts of it.
But I think as long as they can see in the properties profitability and the chain overall they’re obviously going to look for an 11 and that will either be through the debtor is becoming the owner or in the case as I mentioned were both – both have the same.
But if you look Friendly’s and Buffets both the rents are pretty low which gives them the opportunity to do that and the what we’ve tried to do in all of these of course is get some optionality for if the business recovers that we can get a piece of that.
But in most cases they do want to operate but it’s a chain by chain basis.
There has been a fair amount of bankruptcy in that industry over the last four or five years 34 or 35 of them and the vast majority have been 11.
Great thank you very much.
And our next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Hey Todd.
Just a quick question on the acquisitions.
Do you guys have a preference right now for doing deals with the credit tenants in 7s versus the non-credit tenants in the 8s or still happy to do either category? We are happy to do either and it really is investment grade and we would like to take it up the credit curve when we can find them.
It’s a competitive world today but like to do that.
And then when they are not investment grade we’d rather be moving kind of up the cusp with it.
And when you get to non-investment grade it again is kind of a tenant with a low income consumer and discretionary we really don’t want to be investing there even though yields can be very attractive and we are willing to do both today.
Okay.
And then just the acquisition assumption that’s currently embedded in your guidance? I think right now about $0.5 billion is what I have got in there.
Okay.
And in thinking about same store rent growth is 1% to 2% still a good long-term assumption for that? Yeah I would think I would hang around the 1% level or closer to that through the first half of the year as we deal with some of these properties and that was a case a few years ago.
And then I think it probably – long-term probably 1% to 1.5% is to consider average when we get above 1.5% that’s high just given the way lease structures work.
Okay.
And you mentioned that I guess a couple of other categories that contributed to the increase in the last quarter the motor vehicles and the casual dining that was from the expiration of rent reductions.
And this quarter I guess is that something that lasts than for 12 months in the same store numbers but that this time next year that impact would drop off? Yes I think that’s the case and then I would also think we will get some boost from leasing.
Okay great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Okay you bet.
Thank you.
And you next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks.
Tom you were indicating a vacancy that’s higher than expected in the fourth quarter.
Other than the friendly stuff who was the tenant on the bulk of those? I would have to go look.
It was an automotive it was service but what it was is we have vacant properties and then we have a list and there is generally 20 to 30 properties on it that are closed properties but they are still under a long-term lease and the tenant is healthy.
And what happened at the end of the third quarter there was a bunch of properties that a tenant has closed about two years that was still under lease and still paying.
And those all came off at once and so we've gone back and we've looked at that list which O exists at this very little of that this year very little next year but it was one little lump and I forgot but it is an automotive service tenant I believe that was a bunch of them and then there were just a couple of others.
Okay.
Will they likely be teed up for sale? We will tee them up for re-lease or sale both.
Okay.
And just along those same lines could you be – say any disposition volumes increase maybe ahead of schedule maybe where you thought you would be this time last year just to get out in front of some of these credit issues? That’s exactly what our plan is in terms of property sales.
We have typically sold $25 million $30 million of properties a year but that’s mostly just working through lease roll over and occasionally tenant issue and that’s just been kind of the average but we really do want to accelerate that kind of bid and if it’s okay I will spend a second on it.
Over the last year we want back and undertook a very lengthy project that took about 7 to 8 months where we re-underwrote basically the majority of the portfolio.
I think we picked the largest 67 tenants and they combined at about 83% of our rents.
And we went through a rating of each industry we then went through our exposures relative to how many of their units we own how many units we own percent of rent and then went back to their credit ratings around their balance sheets debt maturity schedule usage of line of credit cash debt after cash liquidity revenue.
And then went after their trends and looked at the margin trends and revenue trends and fixed charge coverages.
And then literally remodeled each one of them once again and started running some stress tests where we move their revenues and margins and then kind of refinance their whole balance sheet over the next 5 to 7 years.
And we added on 300 basis points a higher financing cost of 600 basis points and then did some mixing of that to get a perfect storm.
And we took all of that and that kind of guided us along with some themes we had their interest rates too how is retail going to be different that the low end consumer may have trouble coming back the non-discretionary is going to be difficult.
And in doing that then really we kind of laid out our top to bottom in the portfolio.
At the same time we did the same with properties and when we got through we merged that and basically came up with a group of the portfolio that over time that we would like to move out of and in combinations with acquisitions and sales kind of re-orient the portfolio.
And initially we targeted a little over a 100 properties about $110 million or so we bought those out about $100 million of carrying value.
And we have started a process to market them and we have done some staffing done some systems and we have just literally launched that over the last month or so.
So for this year if we can move that up to $50 million from the normal $25 million to $35 million that would be just great.
My sense is to do the whole $110 million will be moving in through this year and early in the next year but the plan right after that will then be to take the next on the list and we would like to over the next three four five years be fairly active in recycling capital and moving into some new areas that we’d rather have in the portfolio.
Okay that’s really helpful thanks Tom.
And just lastly it looks like did you have one agricultural property? Did I see that right? We did.
We had one additional property Diageo it’s in the Napa Valley.
It’s kind of wedged in between the other vineyards that we owned and it is one that we had looked at doing a ways back but there were a couple of complications operationally for them on it but we were able to do that.
So it’s a little addition to the Diageo portfolio.
Any pricing on that any indication what the cap rate was? It’s relatively similar to what we did two years ago.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon.
Just following up on that Tom and thanks for laying out your thoughts on dispositions.
Can you give us any sense of what that magnitude might look like against the $500 million of acquisitions you are thinking about for 2012? Yeah.
There is about – well acquisitions for 2012.
Again our best guess this year is we would like to do 50 and that probably adds in 25 to 30 of this new grouping of investment properties we’d like to sell.
So that’s the number there but there is $110 million probably over the next 18 to 24 months.
And then behind that as we went through and did the whole portfolio it wasn’t we need to sell these now but these are areas we want to move out of.
It is about 20% of the portfolio where you looked at instead over the next four or five years that’s what we would want to recycle.
When you say 20% of the portfolio is that 20% of value or 20% of the buildings? Revenue.
Revenue? Yeah.
So I mean does that suggest there’s a lot like a much bigger ramp in sales beyond 2012 and 2015 with that? No if you think of about 20% that’s 400 or 500 properties so I think over three to five years that’s about 80 properties a year or something.
And to some extent more art than science Tony.
So for example if we – buy $1 billion worth of real estate again this year then maybe we can do more than $50 million in sales this year who knows.
So we will kind of manage that from an earnings run rate perspective as well.
Yeah it’s a balancing act with acquisitions and all the other things going on in the portfolio and still hitting good numbers and raising the dividend but we think we can move a good part of the portfolio over the next two years.
Okay.
And then you talked a bit about same store revenue.
I was wondering if you would give a sense of same store NOI maybe net of things like the $7.5 million of property expenses that you bear.
The effect of the phase and in Friendly’s this year just some the vacancy ticked up in the fourth quarter from some of those leases that burned off and just how that roles into a same store NOI number for 2012? Okay let me.
Let us work on that.
And the one thing we do I think we do a pretty good job of giving you the specifics of how we approach same store calculation in the 10-Qs and 10-Ks but we will have that laid out to give you exactly what we have put in it versus what’s not it because everyone does it a little bit differently.
I think what you are generally going to find and that’s why Tom tried to give you some guidance on where we get some bumps in which industries and which ones were down is that obviously the ones that we got bumps in it was probably a number of slightly healthier than 1% to 1.5%.
But the ones the vacancy is what really drives it down to that kind of overall run rate.
So when you are modeling for the overall portfolio that’s why we are guiding you to that 1% to 1.5% area.
Yeah and I don’t have that number off the top of my head Tony but if you want to e-mail what the piece of puzzle is let us take a look at it.
Sure and I guess what struck me and where I was coming from was even between the 1% to 2% ban being towards the lower end of that it still seemed like not a whole lot of impact given what's happened with Buffet’s and Friendly’s and stuff.
Is that like all those things? Yeah that’s very fair it definitely impacts.
When we talk about an 80% recovery rate that is when we get those leased up so if you have a event happen for the 12 months after that the impact is certainly greater than the 20% that you don't recover because that's during the period where they are vacant and aside from not gaining rent there is also the triple net expenses and so in a year like this and it really bans the year between Friendly’s and Buffet’s.
That does have a pretty good impact it may exceed the same-store rent for a period of time until you get those leased.
But even with the impact on a top line of Friendly’s and Buffet’s you still think you will come in that low 1s? I am only hesitating because I'm trying to make sure I understand what the numbers are.
Obviously Right.
Fair enough.
Your question is on the projection for 2012 and I think what we are seeing is we were expecting same-store rent to be more like 1.5% plus next year reasonably healthy from an overall historical perspective for us.
And the Buffet’s and Friendly’s vacancy is what's dragging that down closer to a 1% number certainly for the first nine months of the year or so.
Okay.
Yeah no I just wanted to make sure that was in that low 1s because I would have actually guessed it to have had a greater negative impact in that.
Great and then just the last thing just curious as you thought about your strategy in the push towards a little bit more higher credit quality a desire to go up the credit quality spectrum.
Like how do you think about going higher credit quality versus perhaps maybe any other options like staying where you are on the credit spectrum and focusing more on certain MSAs or just a different product category or something like that? Yeah that's a very good question.
I think rather than what we are doing talking about why we are doing it's really important.
And starting about four or five years ago as we were doing strategic planning one of the things we did is let’s look back at the last 20 years and say it obviously went really well.
And then say okay why did it go really well and to try and differentiate between being in the right place at the right time and then secondarily what we did and there are kind of three themes in there that are driving it.
One is looking at retail in our business if you look at the last 20 years you had great domestic economic growth personal income growth the baby boomers were peak earnings and spending years the next one is very important the consumer levered up.
Retail spending growth rates were really high retailers added a lot of new stores and it was the right place to be at the right time and we were.
And then we said okay let's look forward there is a bid of the new normal the term goes around debt to GDP is approaching 90% which takes something out of GDP growth and personal income growth the baby boomers are ageing you got the baby bus behind them.
And the consumers unlikely to lever up at the same rate because they can't and may even de-lever a bit.
And so maybe retail isn’t as – the growth rate isn’t as high as it was in the past.
And then you throw in kind of the impact of Internet on retailing and you say it’s the difference between running downhill and the difference between running on flat ground or flat land and the first step was to say okay industry and tenant selection will be more important in the future than in the past because it’s just not as a environment.
And then really going to one step further and saying let’s take a look at the consumer.
The low-end consumer did pretty well over the last 15 to 20 years with all of the growth in construction and real estate and the building trades.
Home improvement there was a fair part of what normally would be kind of the lower income market that we think crept into the kind of middle income market and we are not sure that will be the case in the future.
So let's look at each business we have and which consumer it serves and assume it's not going to be as good as it could.
The second thing which is also really really important and I alluded to that take a minute [ph] is with interest rates and I get the tenure year over the last 30 years ago from 14% to 16% to 2% and that's very much running downhill.
And that obviously made asset prices rise but kind of more importantly made leverage always work and refinance always work and there were a lot of what might have been marginal business models that worked because interest rates were falling so fast.
And there was a fair amount of our tenants that used a fair amount of leverage in environment when interest rates were going down.
And so with the tenure 2% the chance of having a material declining interest rate environment is almost zero because if you go from 2% to 1% it’s only 1% and so that benefit won't be as robust.
And then you say okay what if rates stay low well that’s generally because the economy is probably limping along and very timid [ph] relative to economic growth and in that environment over time the possibility you could see credit spreads gap which means refinance rates for those tenants would be higher.
And then moving out 5 to 7 years you take a look at those tenants and you say if they had to refinance their entire balance sheet what it would do? And that's what started that project which we did where we really know what it would do.
And then you throw in obviously anybody that has impact by Internet.
And when we got done with all of that we said okay look we want to go up the credit curve so 5 to 7 years from now interest rates are higher and the tenants have to refinance their balance sheet and that sucks cash flows really out of their income statements it can have an impact and default rates will be greater in the next 20 than the last 20.
So you put those two together and then kind of the last one that’s the net lease retail spaces become more competitive and more mainstream and so that launched us in a couple of directions.
One just generically up the credit curve and not just into investment grade but in the portfolio for those less investment grade higher up the curve.
Second in terms of the type of consumer they really serve again we want to stay away from more of the consumer discretionary.
And then third where can we go outside of retail that should benefit good examples are FedEx and the impacted as for them with Internet taking more and more of retail sales and other areas where we can also get investment grade credit and then maybe even have some very large Fortune 1000 tenants that are benefiting from having a presence overseas where we are not but as they are our tenant of ours we would benefit.
So it was all of those kind of put together that we said okay in retail up the curve out of certain areas and into others and then outside of retail up the credit curve so we wake up 5 7 8 years down the road and we have kind of remade the portfolio.
And if it is that’s going to slow our retail environment and/or interest rates were materially higher it won't have near the impact that might have because the last 20 30 years and track record it was put together because that is a function of the operating conditions to some extent and it’s unlikely that that will persist into the future so that was kind of the thought process.
Okay yeah thank you.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Market.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi good afternoon guys.
I was looking at the or thinking about the impact of Friendly’s.
And I went back to the press release you guys had is that what you pretty much are seeing what you put in the press release on January 18 is that still what you expect from the Friendly’s closures and then how much you recover of what's left? Yes.
Okay and at what point in the year did they stop did all of this take place.
I mean you said it was late in the year but was it – how much of that fourth quarter rent I guess we see? We received October rent and then the impact say 15 of the 19 rejections we did not receive November or December rent.
And then the other four rejections we haven’t received January’s rent just to kind to give you a feel.
Okay that does.
And then as far as what you will recover from the others when did that start the reduction? on the concessions and that sort of thing on any properties where we agreed to a lower rent level.
But October was a full rent.
October was a full rent.
I got you.
And then for the phase you are thinking obviously nothing is happening.
Are you thinking the same that you have in the press release the same sort of same sort of parameters that you mentioned in here? those recovery numbers and with the expectation as mentioned call it a six-month to 18-month general window some earlier some later than that in terms of re-leases on the rejected one.
Okay.
And those parameters Paul as far as how much base rent you will lose and what the concessions will be on there mainly.
Do you still feel comfortable about that? Yes we are at the same place where we were with the press release a couple weeks ago.
Yeah absolutely.
Correct.
I wanted to ask you guys when you re-leased some of these when you redo Friendly’s overall [ph] do you have to put capital in in any way for the new tenant? Sometimes a little.
but generally not huge amounts.
Historically the revenue tenant was that’s part of the work he does on it and we agree to a long-term rental agreement it's generally not it's also you don't get two years free rent and you do it it’s generally renegotiated rent and that’s his responsibility.
So it's a marginal amount of CapEx that it adds in.
Yeah a lot of the buildings are set up for that so it generally is and I could give you other things they would become but it’s really anecdotal they are restaurants.
Okay.
All right very good.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
This does conclude the question-and-answer session for the Realty Income operating results conference call.
Mr.
Lewis please go ahead.
Okay.
Well listen thanks everybody for being with us today I know it's a busy schedule and we appreciate the attention and we will talk to you in about 90 days and thank you Diane.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded April 26 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Lewis CEO of Realty Income.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Good afternoon everybody and thank you Elisa and welcome to our call to talk about the first quarter.
In the room with me is Gary Malino our President and Chief Operating Officer; Paul Meurer our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John Case our Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer and Mike Pfeiffer our General Counsel and he is also an Executive Vice President and Tere Miller who is our Vice President of Corporate Communications.
And as always during this call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
The company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater detail on the company’s Form 10-K the factors that may cause such differences.
And with that we’ll open it up as we usually do going over the numbers to Paul and he will handle that.
Thank you Tom.
As usual I will comment briefly on our financial statements provide a few highlights of the results for the quarter and start with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 17.9% in the quarter.
Our revenue for the quarter was approximately $115 million or about $450 million annualized run rate.
This obviously reflects the significant amount of new acquisitions over the past year.
Other income was only $255 000 for the quarter.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization increased by about $8.6 million in the comparative quarterly period.
Obviously depreciation expense increased as our property portfolio continues to grow.
Interest expense increased by just over $3.8 million and this increase was due primarily to the June 2011 issuance of $150 million of notes in the reopening of or 2035 bonds as well as credit facility borrowings during the quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remains strong with interest coverage at 3.5 times and fixed charge coverage is at 2.7 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the first quarter was $9.2 million.
Our G&amp;A expense has increased a bit as our acquisition activity has increased and we invested this past year in new personnel for future growth.
G&amp;A also includes the expensing of additional due diligence costs on the acquisition side which totaled $242 000 during the quarter.
Our current projection for G&amp;A for all of 2012 is approximately $34 million which will represent only about 7.25% of total revenue projected for the year.
Property expenses were $2.5 million for the quarter.
These expenses are primarily associated with the taxes maintenance and insurance expenses which we are responsible for on properties available for lease.
Our current estimate for property expenses for all of 2012 is about $9.4 million.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various state company and there were $405 000 during the quarter.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $851 000 million and this income is associated with our property sales activity during the quarter.
We did sell five properties during the quarter a reminder again that we do not include these property sales gains in our FFO or AFFO.
Preferred stock cash totaled $9.
5 million for the quarter and this increase reflects our issuance of 6 and 5.8% preferred F stock this year.
Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed refers to the $3.7 million non-cash redemption charges stemming from the repayment of our outstanding 7.38% preferred D stock from some of the proceeds from our preferred F offering this year.
Replacement of this preferred D stock in our capital structure pays us about $1 million cash annually.
Obviously due to the lower coupon of the new preferred F stock that we just issued.
Net income available to common stockholders was$26.
1 million for the quarter.
Funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.46 for the quarter although excluding the $3.7 million preferred stock redemption charges our FFO for the quarter would have been $0.49 or 2.1% increase over the fully $0.08 earned in the first quarter of last year.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividend was higher at $0.50 per share for the quarter an increase of 2% over $0.49 AFFO earned in the first quarter of last year.
As we have always mentioned our AFFO will continue to be higher than our FFO and we believe this differential between our AFFO and higher FFO actually continue to increase likely.
Our capital expenditures are fairly low.
We have minimal straight-line rent adjustments in our portfolio.
And we do believe that over time we will continue to have some FAS 141 non-cash reductions to FFO when they purchase large portfolio to have some in place leases.
In addition in 2012 of course we will have a $3.7 million non-cash preferred redemption charge which effects our FFO but not in the calculation of our AFO four.
Our 2012 AFFO earnings projection is $2.08 to $2.13 per share an increase of 3.5% to 6% over our 2011 AFFO per share of $2.01.We increased our cash monthly dividend again this quarter.
We’ve increased the dividend 58 consecutive quarters and 65 times overall since we went public over 17.
Years ago.
Our AFFO dividend payout ratio for the quarter was 87%.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet for a moment we believe we continue to maintain our conservative and very safe capital structure.
We were very pleased to raise $409 million with our 6 5/8% class F preferred stock offerings this year including the 1.4 million share reopening add-on offering that we did earlier this month in April.
As I mentioned the proceeds were used to redeem or higher coupon class D preferred stock and also to repay borrowings on our acquisition credit facility.
So our balance sheet continues to be well positioned to support our acquisition growth.
Our current debt to total market capitalization is 24% and preferred stock outstandings still represent only 8% of our capital structure.
Our $425 million credit facility had just $43 million of borrowings at quarter end and of course some of that were paid off with the preferred add-on offering earlier this month in April.
We have no debt maturities until 2013.
So in summary we currently have excellent liquidity and believe our overall balance sheet remains very healthy and safe.
Let me turn the call back over to Tom who will give you a little more background on the results.
Thanks Paul and I’ll kind of run through the various areas of the business.
Let me start with the portfolio.
The portfolio continued to generate very consistent revenue throughout the first quarter.
And at the end of the quarter our 15 largest tenants accounted for about 49.4% of our revenue.
That’s down 440 basis points from the same period a year ago and 40 basis points from the fourth quarter but the acquisition efforts and (inaudible) portfolio continue to reduce concentration.
Relative to the health of the portfolio the average cash flow coverage at the store level for those top 15 remains very high and very stable from previous quarters at about 2.4 times and so overall the operations of the tenants in those properties are doing pretty well.
We ended the first quarter at occupancy of 96.6% 90 properties available for lease out of the 2 631.
That’s down about 10 basis points from the fourth quarter and down about 20 basis points for the same period a year ago.
During the quarter we had 16 new vacancies in the portfolio eight came really from buffets and friendly leases that were rejected during the reorganizations and then the balance from the normal operations portfolio which is (inaudible).
And then we also leased or sold 13 vacant properties during the quarter and that basically gives you the reason for the movement in the asset.
I mentioned last quarter that we thought that we – during the first quarter we could see another 30 basis points or sort of occupancy decline.
Obviously we were able to do better than that.
And we think throughout the year absent anything material change that the portfolio occupancy will remain very high.
Our best guess will be around 97% at the end of the second quarter third quarter maybe high 96 97 and then a little over 97% in the fourth quarter and that’s how the things are looking stable and up a bit.
And the formula for how we do occupancy is basically the vacant number of properties 90 divided by the occupied total number 2631 and that gets to the 3.4% vacancy and 96.6% occupancy.
As I mentioned last quarter we also run a couple of other ways one is to take the vacant square footage and divided by the total square footage and that gives you a different number.
That number today is vacant square footages is about 790 000 square feet you divide that by our total of 27 377 000 square feet that gives you 2.9% vacancy and about 97.1% occupancy.
And then in the third way we run that is to take the previous rent on vacant properties and divide that by the sum of that number and the rent on the occupied property.
And if you run that today the vacant property former contractual rent in the first quarter was about 2.87 million and if you combine that with the rent on all the occupied properties which is a 114.6 you will get 117.47 million divide that by the 2.87 million and essentially you will get to on a dollar basis about 2.4% occupancy or 97.6%.
So if you look at the three ways number of properties 96.6 square footage 97.1 by dollars 97.6.
And each quarter probably we will not go through the definitions in the future we will mention what they are utilizing each method.
And in each case I think it still represents our very good occupancy.
Our same-store rents on the core portfolio decreased 1.1% during the first quarter while fairly small that is unusual and it is really a function of the impact and the kind of coming to flourish in the first quarter and reorganizations.
Excluding those same-store rent would have increased 1.1% during the quarter that is the dead light saying hey it is up to the bad stuff the good stuff look like this.
And we believe that those numbers should turn positive over the next couple of quarters and if we had to make a guess right now the same-store rents over the course of the year it should be flat to slightly up.
If we look where really that came from there were only three industries that had declining same-store rents one was bookstores we only have one bookstore home furnishings and then casual dining restaurants.
And that includes above Buffets and the total decrease was about 2 57 000 million of which 2 million came from the Buffets and the Friendly’s.
Four industries have flat same-store rents business services equipment services stores and transportation and then there were 24 industries that saw same-store rent increases with the majority coming from sporting goods motor vehicle dealerships health and fitness theaters quick service restaurants and childcare.
The 24 industries together that had increases was about $1.1 million and that gets you to the net decline of about $990 000.
From a diversification standpoint the portfolio continues to be well diversified.
We have 200 – 2 631 properties at the end of the quarter and that’s down three from the previous quarter 38 different industries 137 different tenants in 49 states and we anticipate as we said materially adding to that in the second quarter through acquisitions.
Industry exposure continues to be well diversified (inaudible).
Our largest industry convenience store you can see in the release is 17% that’s down about 20 basis points from last quarter.
And then restaurants if you combine both casual dining and QSR quick service restaurants are down about 180 basis points from last quarter.
QSR is actually up a bit and casual dining is where most of that drop came from.
Some of it from reduced rent on the buffets and friendlies which is really not the way we want to reduce the concentration.
And then it’s really theaters to 9.7% it’s down 10 basis points health and fitness up 10% and 7%.
And then very quickly the only other area over 5% is beverages which was unchanged.
So we continue to try and diversify out by industry.
On a tenant basis the largest you can see there is AMC at 5.3%.
(Inaudible) also over 5% just slightly and all of the rest of the tenants under 5% again with the 15 largest at about 49.4%.
You can see when you get to the 15th largest tenant you are down to 2.2% of revenue.
When you get to number 20 by the way it’s down to 1.5% and 10 down from there so fairly well diversified by tenant and then lastly by geography.
The average remaining lease length on the portfolio remains healthy at about 11.1 years.
If we look forward to the balance of the year on the portfolio we feel pretty good about things for the years and we think we should have a good year in operations.
Friendlies releases on the 19 properties that we got back are ahead of schedule.
In our model we had assumed that the first releases would occur next year in January in the model and we leased three of those in the first quarter have contracts out for two more and LOIs letter of intent on five so we think the 10 of the 19 should get done here relatively quickly and then we’ll follow on on the other ones.
With buffets we got seven back in the first quarter.
One has been leased.
We have LOIs on three more.
So running a bit ahead of schedule there.
And then third we had assumed an assumption that tenants equal to about 5% of rent might have some issues going forward and we’ve said that in the last couple of calls.
Yeah I’m sorry Paul.
2% to 3% of rent not 5%.
Excuse me 2% to 3% of rent but basically our concerns there are abated quite a bit as in talking to the tenants they have seen that their business have improved.
So a bit more positive there relating to how we do the portfolio going forward this year.
I would also say that leasing and sales activities is rest in the portfolio management department is in pretty good environment right now and overall we think the portfolio should be pretty stable going forward.
And there are no new issues that have emerged over the last quarter.
So a little bit more positive comp related to the portfolio.
Moving on to the property acquisitions the first quarter was obviously quiet but second very busy and I’ll let John Case our Chief investment Officer comment on acquisition.
Thanks Tom.
We remain quite active on acquisitions front we continue to see a high volume of acquisition opportunities.
While we only invested 10.7 million in the first quarter we expect to see a very active closing calendar over the next two to three months.
Our quarterly closing activities typically driven by the timing of our larger portfolio of transactions of which they were none in the first quarter of this year.
As we stated in our earnings release subsequent to the end of first quarter we have acquired or placed under contract acquired 500 to 14 million in acquisitions which we expect to close during the second quarter.
The two large portfolios transactions are driving the bulk of these activities these acquisitions are comprised of 250 properties leased before in the four different industries all of which are industries were currently invested in.
Virtually all of the acquisitions of the retail properties of about 36% our investment in our tenants we will provide more color on these acquisitions once they close.
We have seen a broad range of investment possibilities we sourced approximately 6 billion in acquisitions opportunity so far this year.
Again this is everything that is come in the door that acquisitions team has reviewed.
This activity is comprised of 1300 properties leased to 115 tenants and 33 industries.
The majority of what we’re seeing continue to be retail and distribution property.
And about half of the properties were analyzing are released to investment-grade tenants.
While we are no longer evaluating the majority of these acquisitions we continue to pursue a number of these investments.
Given our level of activity to date this year we’re raising our acquisition estimates for 2012 of 650 million from our previously announced $500 million.
We currently believe our initial cap rates should average from 7.5% to 7.75% for the year.
Our initial lease terms should continue to average 15 years or longer.
While the acquisition market is active it is also competitive.
So investment yields remain under pressure.
Our investments spreads continue to hold up very well though.
Our anticipated acquisition cap rates reflect about a 175 basis point spread over our year-to-date average nominal cost of equity.
This again is taking our average price year-to-date and adjusting it for the forward FFO yield and – calculating the forward FFO yield on that and grossing it up for our equity issuance cost.
This spread compares favorably to our long-term average of 110 basis points and it’s just a shade of our 2011 average spread of 170 basis points.
At our current share price our expected investment spreads are in excess of 200 basis points.
Tom? Thanks.
So obviously spreads remain very very wide even on slightly lower cap rate.
Obviously we’re pleased with what plan on the second quarter with the $514 million that we’ll have coming in the door during the quarter.
As John mentioned it’s 250 properties.
So it’s a lot of retail properties leased to four tenants in all industries that we are in already and then the vast majority of it is retail.
The other thing is it’s very typical of what we thought over the years.
It has fairly high cash flow coverages that would be in line with the balance of our larger tenants and about a third of it is investment grade.
So I think normal write-up the middle of – the middle for us in terms of what we require.
Normally we would not have announced it obviously until they closed which is what we typically do but we needed to disclose that we did have those accusations coming in because we were doing the additional preferred offering.
And those transactions some of them are part of larger transactions that tenants are undertaking and those will transpire over the next couple of months and then we’ll comment further on those after we get them done and then the tenants are able to complete the overall transactions and then we are freed up of confidentiality agreements and be able to talk a little more about them.
And we believe that all of them should close in the second quarter.
There could be a little leakage into the third quarter but obviously very positive.
John mentioned we’re using $650 million in acquisitions in our numbers for now.
Transaction flow is excellent.
So we could exceed that but it really is as we’ve said for a long time lumpy quarter-to-quarter and highly dependent on the larger transactions closing in a competitive environment and it’s really instructive now in the first quarter you’re looking at 10 million and in the second quarter 514 million that is a very good example of how it can be lumpy quarter-to-quarter and how to take what you do one quarter and then annualize that.
We think the acquisitions will continue to play a big role obviously in our ability to grow the revenue and the AFFO which will drive dividend increases but also really adjusting the make-up of the portfolio where we want to move up the credit curve relating to tenant quality and then be selected in terms of retail in what sectors we want to be in and also outside.
So if you look at the last couple of years we have been trying to do this movement as of the end of the second quarter that would take us for kind of 2010 2011 and 2012 about 2.2 billion of property that we have acquired about 1.4 billion of that has been in retail 800 million in other areas outside of retail that we think will do well for us.
And then of the 2.2 billion just under 800 million would investment-grade tenants or the subsidiaries and these amount of the balance of the acquisitions pretty close to investment-grade and that’s a trend that we would like to continue but given the volumes we’re looking at now and kind of where it is coming from the best guess this year would be a little heavy in the retail than we have in the last two years and more to what we have traditionally done and that is just really a matter of the transaction flow that is coming across.
And we will see how that goes as the year goes on.
Relative to funding those acquisitions as I mentioned last quarter were all living in a very low interest rate environment and it’s easy to get the assumption of what was being that way.
And we want to make sure on the capital that we were raising that we are not really creating any near-term maturities and that if interest rates go up in the future we will have appropriately match funded long-term leases and long-term capital.
And that’s what we have been trying to do in the last couple of years it has been a little over 1 billion of equity obviously with no maturities.
150 million debt offering last year that matures in 2035 and then the 400 million of preferred that we’ve done recently.
So that’s about 1.5 billion of capital where we are making too much creating the near-term maturities.
Going forward today and looking what we might do long-term debt obviously looks very attractive but be nothing with the short maturity obviously the equity is trading very well and attractive and over the next couple of months we’ll watch the markets with what’s going on try and make an appropriate decision relative to what type of permanent capital we will use with these acquisitions.
As mentioned in the balance sheet and power today– continue to grow so we feel that the capital markets are obviously open and available in a very good pricing.
Let me go on to earnings and guidance.
The acquisitions and high occupancy obviously had an impact on the numbers here and will benefit us for the balance of the year.
We’ve increased the guidance for 2012 depending on both ends on FFO of 202 to 206 and then on AFFO of 208 to 213 which is about 3.5% to 6% AFFO growth.
As we continue to raise the monthly dividend a bit each quarter it has been our custom every year in August that our Board Meeting to sit down and see if a fixed dividend increase is warranted each year and now we are seeing AFFO payout ratio which falls at 87% excuse me and that should drop further as the year goes on when we see FFO growth.
So I would anticipate that the board will meet and consider a fifth and larger increase this year which obviously would be positive for shareholders.
And with that I think what we will do Elisa is we will open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Josh.
I’m wondering if you guys could give a little bit more comments about your two to three year outlook on sales process.
I know you noted that the sales have been kind of slow in the first quarter.
But this is sort of a question within a question.
A what do you expect in the sales process over the next couple of years and B is there some right size of the enterprise that you’d like we’ll be able to get over the next few years just given that you guys have gotten bigger and probably necessitates larger deals to continue growing? I’ll start with the last part of that.
I think we will continue to get bigger notwithstanding sales because the acquisitions will outstrip them and fortunately we have been able to do more acquisitions as the market has been there has been at lot of product on the market.
We have been very active and with good spreads and cost of capital it’s really an nice window here to jump through but size over time is certainly an issue down the road.
Relative to sales talked to linked again in the last two about kind of re-rating the whole portfolio and starting to sell off some things that we don’t want to hold over the long term and we targeted initially 106 properties out of the portfolio a fairly small was about 114 million and asset size and really just stack that really and additional departments to do that in January and started the process obviously these are aren’t like selling securities where you can push a button.
They do take some time but I think that initial 114 will take the balance of this year and probably into the first quarter of next year and than what we will do is we will probably just have another 100 150 right behind that that we try and do over a year.
So if I could targeted run rate once we get up and operating here it will be $100 million give or take $25 million $50 million on each side.
And that should be something that should continue I would think for the next three four years based on how we’ve analyzed the portfolio.
If you look at the 106 that we targeted again really (inaudible) in January there is 49 of those right now where we’re out talking to brokers in the communities where those properties are and going through due diligence getting the broker opinion of value and coming to some agreement with the person who’ll use.
We have another 24 that are listed on the market right now and available.
There are 13 that we had on the market that have letters of intents and then two under contract and we closed one.
And then there is another 17 or so that we need to initiate.
So I think we are off to a good start but it will take a couple of quarters to get it going we should start seeing sales ramp up a little bit in the second quarter and then in the third and fourth I would hope that it becomes very very active but we’re up and running there.
If I had to guess it would be $100 million give or take that we’re selling each year.
That’s very helpful.
One last question.
Have you seen the high yield market which has been as you know very strong this year has that been impacting tenant decisions on whether to go with the triple net financing or have you seen – it sounds like the deal flow this year has been pretty good.
Has the high yield market been impacting that either positively or negatively? The high yield market is on fire and that does give an alternative to tenants but they’ve also realized that net lease is permanent financing and we are very low interest rates and I think that some people have sat down really thought their way through it and said look we have these properties on the books let’s go out and get some very long-term financing which I think is smart for them to do.
John you want to comment? I can think of just a couple of transactions involving private equity firms where they opted to pursue more high yield financing than sale leaseback financing over the last three to four months.
It hasn’t really been a significant impact on our business but we’re seeing a little of it given the strength of that market right now.
Right.
So for the triple nets you don’t get (inaudible) at the last moment? We try very hard to make that point when we’re doing a transaction.
Thanks very much.
Good luck.
You bet Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon with Robert W Baird.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
Hi Paula.
Tom you described the transaction flow as excellent.
Does that reflect just the velocity of opportunities that you’re seeing or does that reflect the suitability of the opportunities relative to your acquisition criteria? Yeah I think it is as John mentioned that in (inaudible) acquisitions this year about $6 billion had come in the door and for the whole year last year if I recall it was about $13 billion and then we’ll use last year numbers.
Of the $13 billion about $8 billion gets seriously analyzed and then about $3 billion goes into committee and we actually had a very high hit rate last year though we bought $1 billion.
So looking at six and closing about 500 million the numbers in terms of are pretty high and then the suitability is also very high.
And a good part of it a good percentage again is investment grade that we’re looking at.
Yeah about half of what we are seeing is investment grade and what we’re invested in projected to invest in it’s about 36%.
And it’s also across a lot of different industries and that tells us sometimes there is something going on in convenience stores or restaurants where those industries don’t have capital or there is a lot of M&amp;A and that’s really what causes people to come into the market but today it’s pretty broad-based across industries which tells us people saying hey this is a good time while interest rates are low to go out and do something and I think they are right and then conversely this for us too given where spreads are and we can get long-term financing.
And what are some of the industries that you’d like to be in that you are not currently? Well in retail we kind of got fully funded and if there you just kind of say anything in there that is non-discretionary to meddle up our income we love and in retail if it’s going to be the kind of lower income better be value club stores dollar stores or along those lines.
And then outside it’s really kind of the Fortune 1000 we’re trying to fall in a little bit and look into those industries that’s cannot be as capital intensive and we would benefit from some of the trends going on conversely in retail like in when the Internet retailing and transportation we are looking in that area and we’ve been we’ve done some business with FedEx and looking at some others and so it’s kind of up the credit curve outside of retail and non-heavy equipment type businesses service business or really Fortune 1000 type companies.
That’s really helpful.
And then finally one last question what do you think the spread is in the cap rate between what you are buying and selling at? That’s a very interesting question.
We had targeted for our modeling selling at a 10 cap and we had probably bought those assets at 8 and today they are yielding us – happen to yield us 883 those we want to sell on the sales.
We only have one sale but in through looking at the LOIs and others it’s down closer to where the cap rate spread is it’s pretty tight I think in the four or five to date is about 9.
So I think we’re going to have a better range of cap rates and some are lower than what we’re holding at so we’re doing pretty good.
If you look today it’s hard to really say here’s what we’re buying here is what we’re selling we’re selling generally those tenants that we think that might be challenged in the future or in industries that we like to move away from and we’re buying going up the credit curve so there should be a spread there is any type of credit spreads that go on in that lease business? And I’m sorry one last question this is really big picture.
As you sort of think about long-term really long-term about the trends of consumer spending patterns and what not is there anything kind of emerging to you of where you definitely want to be or don’t want to be and sort of using that this next generation coming out where I’d be long (inaudible).
Right.
Yeah.
Very much so and will do have some very strong feelings about that and it’s a function that we think A retail will be tougher and then secondly the interest rates will be something that comes in as a problem in the future.
And we – it’s interesting we kind of thought that recession was coming.
We’re doing a big picture dive relative to where we were and where we kind of missed it for a couple of years in the last couple it’s really come up front for us is dividing the consumer up to upper income middle income and lower income and then looking at discretionary versus non-discretionary items.
And saying in the upper income you can do both the discretionary and non-discretionary we will do very well with that money.
And then when you get into middle income it’s a little bit of a shrinking group so you want to say with non-discretionary things they have to buy and when you are looking at discretionary be careful.
And then in the lower income it’s a really tough going forward.
Credit is tough it’s a lot of people out of work and it’s not improving rapidly and we think we are discretionary spending it’s going to be huge problem and so we don’t want anything that we view as discretionary spending of the low-income consumer.
We made some significant investments in restaurants in 2007 and 2008 and I wish we would have looked at what we thought would be was going to happen with the economy and tied it to the consumer a couple of years earlier because a lot of that was casual dining and comes right down to the low end consumer on discretionary spending and that’s really kind of where we don’t want to be and in retail we want to make sure it’s primarily the middle income upper income consumer and then we can play in both discretionary and non-discretionary.
So if you did that and I will give you an examples if consumer discretionary it’s the middle and upper income health and fitness theatres supplies that was pretty good and you have to watch where you’re buying from a demographics standpoint.
If it’s consumer non-discretionary kind of at the middle take auto collision auto service tires sea stores drug stores those look fairly attractive to us.
And then kind for all demographics those retailers could have good value propositions as kind of whole sale clothes dollar stores discount volume retailers.
And then to couple it given where we think the fixed rates might go in the future by trying to go a bit up the credit curve.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
Tom just circling back to your comments on the disposition the real opportunity for you to sell properties on a one-off basis I know it might be a little more time consuming but you get that tend you really want to exchange buyer it might not be as price sensitive and if an urgency to close.
Any color on the – if these are going to be portfolios group or maybe just the one-off? Yeah we will do a few – in pieces but I think we’ll come with the conclusion the best buyer for the – their good locations is to the buyer in the community where the property exists because these tend to be on main drag people know them if they go buy and they’re comfortable with their community and they’re comfortable with that location in their community and that’s sold by I think the local brokering there.
And since they’re fairly small asset size they fit kind of that type of buyer.
With that said along the way we’re getting a few calls where somebody says we would like to do four or five.
What we learned in crust though over a number of years if you get people coming and try and tie up four or five and then try and work the transaction it’s got one out here and one in there and we’ve just been better off unless you’re really going to discount them and do a good volume block you will get maximum value kind of one-off.
And that is a system that we’re trying to build as we do the sales.
That’s helpful.
And then just a couple with that.
Any geographic pockets that concern you maybe some macro issues related to the housing market not coming back that are skewing you to sell more across the country? That’s a great question and I have to say a soft.
No there are some areas that are little less attractive but we did a really interesting study we went and studied all of the tenants last year and the industries and we rate them and it took a year.
We undertook the same project with properties and started defining real estate characteristics to them relative to income population demographics and really going through the portfolio and when it was done weighted and weighted the properties from real estate characteristics then they could marry to the credit statistics of the tenant.
And we thought it’ll be interesting the back cast was real estate characteristics.
So we basically took the last couple of three bankruptcies the company have had we took both properties and rated and the correlation to whether we got the properties back or they were successful is almost zero.
The co-relation was almost cash flow coverage and then there was the rating for consumer discretionary as the consumer.
So we’re more focused in that area because when we backed up it was stunting to me that you take – you’re looking at traffic flows the traffic demographics and all the other things and all that really matter with the cash flow coverage.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Tom.
And last question with the new acquisition you announced the pending one that’s going to close in the second quarter.
Is there any secured debt that comes along with that? No there is none on this one.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hello guys.
Good afternoon.
Hi Rich.
Staying with that last question for a second.
Your acquisition facility I assume it is at about zero I think how you’re basically saying and as you add these acquisitions this quarter that’s going to pretty much match you out.
Is that about right? Yeah and so obviously options include the utilizing the accordion on the facility which has $200 million that can be added to the $425 million or access in permanent capital which whether be common preferred or bonds or all very available at the moment and very well priced.
I’ll also say add-on to that that we have a fabulous group of banks that we have a great relationship with and have been told over time that it’s an environment where pick up the phone if you need something.
So we don’t have a concern in that area.
Okay.
Tom your confidence level I take it is high that you closed on these.
So you could say you were going to equity you could do that really at any point right? You could but we have found that the best ideas to match those things up while we think there is a very very high chance that they’re closing given where we are on them.
We generally like to make sure they are going to close and close them before we got a lot of money.
Okay.
That sounds pretty intelligent.
When you look at Friendly’s and Buffets is there any more impact in the second quarter and what do you think happened beyond 2Q? I think the impact lags throughout the year.
I think same-store rents will be a little soft in the second quarter and gets a little better in the third and fourth.
And I think the leasing happens over time and obviously since we are comping off last year’s number pre-bankruptcy on both of these and some of the concessions we made on a comp basis those will show up this year.
But in terms of handling it I’d say it gets done in the first three quarters.
I think most of it could do and I know our portfolio management group is listening and now knows what we need to do.
And then that will pretty much in and we’ll look forward from there.
And as I mentioned earlier there is nothing that’s jumped up we see as of right now in the portfolio above or beyond those.
Okay.
Thanks.
And one more thing.
It looked like you – you added two stores in the quarter and it looked like you added one retail chain.
And I was curious two things one what the retail chain was and why you would add one store of one new retail chain? The retail chain increases were released of a property.
Okay I got you.
As part of the acquisition efforts.
We agree relative to the acquisition front for the most part you’re not going to see that sort of situation.
I was just going to say that I don’t know.
Yes exactly.
Okay good very good.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer portion of the Realty Income’s conference call.
I will now turn the call over to Tom Lewis for closing remarks.
Thank you.
As always we appreciate everybody’s time and look forward to talking to you again in any upcoming (inaudible) or other meetings and other than that we’ll talk to you in about 90 days.
Thank you and Elisa thank you for your help.
Ladies and gentlemen if you’d like to listen to a replay of today’s conference please dial 1800-4806-7325 4303-590-3030 and enter access code of 531986 followed by the pound sign.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator instructions) This conference is being recorded today July 26 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Lewis CEO of Realty Income.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Liz and good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to our conference call where we will discuss the operations activity of the second quarter and for six months of this year.
In the room with me today is Gary Malino our President and Chief Operating Officer; Mike Pfeiffer our Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and as always Tere Miller our Vice President of Corporate Communications.
And then on the call with me today will be Paul Meurer our EVP and Chief Financial Officer and John Case our EVP and CIO.
And again during this conference call we will likely make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities law and the company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
But we’ll discuss in greater detail in the company’s Form 10-Q the factors that may cause such differences.
And as our custom we’ll start with Paul and you can do an overview of the numbers.
Thanks Tom.
As usual I’ll just comment on the income statement first and – providing a few highlights and then moving on to the balance sheet.
Total revenue increased 13.8% for the quarter.
Our revenue for the quarter was just over $115 million or just over $460 million on an annualized basis.
This obviously reflects a significant amount of new acquisitions over the past year.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased by about $6.8 million in the comparative quarterly period as that expense increases as our property portfolio of course continues to grow.
Interest expense increased by almost $3.2 million.
This increase was due to our credit facility borrowings during the quarter as well as the June 2011 issuance of $150 million of notes and the reopening of our 2035 bonds some of which appears in this quarter and not all of which appeared in the comparative quarter last year.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remain strong with interest coverage at 3.6 times and fixed charge coverage at 2.7 times.
General and administrative expenses in the second quarter were approximately $9.3 million as compared to about $8 million a year ago.
Part of this increase is due to higher unexpected costs related to our proxy process this year about $550 000 more than we expected.
Our G&amp;A expense has also increased as our acquisition activity has increased and because we’ve added new personnel as we continue to grow the portfolio.
We spent $392 000 of acquisition due diligence costs during the quarter and our employee base has grown from 78 employees a year ago to 89 employees today.
However our current projection for total G&amp;A for all of 2012 is approximately $35 million which will still represent only about 7.5% of total revenues projected for the year.
Property expenses were just under $2.1 million for the quarter.
These are the expenses primarily associated properties available for lease.
Our current estimate for property expenses for all of 2012 is about $9 million.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the company and they were just over $400 000 during the quarter.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $3.8 million.
This income is associated with our property sales activity during the quarter.
We sold 14 properties during the quarter for $15 million and a reminder again that we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or in our AFFO.
Preferred stock cash dividends totaled approximately $10.5 million for the quarter and this number obviously increased because of the issuance of our preferred F stock earlier this year.
Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed – a reminder again refers to the $3.7 million non-cash redemption charge stemming from the repayment of our outstanding 7.375% preferred B stock with some of the proceeds from our preferred F offering earlier this year.
Replacement of this preferred B stock in our capital structure did save us about $1 million cash annually obviously due to the lower coupon of the newly-issued preferred.
Net income available to common stockholders was $32.95 million for the quarter.
Funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.49 for the quarter a 2.1% increase versus a year ago.
It was $0.95 for the first 6 months of the year but a reminder that excluding the $3.7 million preferred stock redemption charge our FFO year-to-date would have been $0.98 per share.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash that we have available for distribution as dividends was higher again at $0.50 per share for the quarter a 2% increase versus a year ago.
As we mentioned recently in the last couple calls our AFFO – we think will continue to be higher than our FFO and we believe this differential between our FFO and a higher AFFO will continue to increase a bit.
Because our capital expenditures still remain fairly low we have minimal straight-line rent adjustments overall in the portfolio.
We’ll continue to have some FAS141 non-cash reductions to FFO for in-place leases when we acquire them in large portfolio transactions.
And of course this year in 2012 we have that $3.7 million non-cash preferred redemption charge.
Our 2012 AAFO earnings projection is $2.06 to $2.11 per share or an increase of 2.5 to 5% over our 2011 AFFO per share of $2.01.
We increased our cash monthly dividend again this quarter.
We’ve increased the dividend 59 consecutive quarters and 66 times overall since we went public over 17.5 years ago.
Our AAFO dividend payout ratio for the quarter and year-to-date was 87%.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we’ve continued to maintain our conservative and safe capital structure.
In May we were very pleased to enter into a new $1 billion unsecured acquisition credit facility to replace our existing $425 million facility.
This facility has a four-year initial term plus a fifth year within our control.
It also has a $500 million accordion expansion feature and the pricing is very attractive at only 125 basis points over LIBOR.
We are very appreciative of the 15 bank lenders who participated in this expanded credit line which gives us tremendous flexibility with our acquisition and financing efforts.
The credit facility had only $184 million of borrowings at quarter end.
Our current total debt to total market capitalization is only 24% and our preferred stock outstanding still is only 8% of our capital structure.
And our only debt maturity in the next three years is a $100 million bond maturity in March of next year.
In summary we currently have excellent liquidity and our overall balance sheet remains very safe and well-positioned to support our continued growth.
Now let me turn the call now back over to Tom who will give you more background.
Thanks Paul.
Let me kind of run through each piece of the business and I’ll start with the portfolio.
The portfolio continued to generate very consistent cash flow during the second quarter.
Generally the tenants are doing well.
There were no issues that arose with any of the tenants during the quarter and I think at this point we’d look for that to continue herein the third quarter.
So pretty much steady as she goes for portfolio operations.
At the end of the quarter our largest 15 tenants represented about 48.5% of revenue.
That’s down 350 basis points from the same period a year ago and about 90 basis points from the first quarter.
So this kind of accelerated acquisition activity we’ve had the last couple of years continues to help us reduce concentrations in the portfolio.
Generally very healthy from an operational standpoint to the average cash flow coverage at the store level for those top 15 tenants stayed just under 2.5 times so very very healthy relative to the operations there.
From an occupancy standpoint we ended the second quarter at 97.3% you saw in the release with 75 properties that’s available for lease out of the now 2 762 we own.
That’s up about 70 basis points from the first quarter and just about flat unchanged from a year ago.
During the quarter we had only 6 new vacancies in the portfolio.
We leased or sold 21 vacant properties during the quarter.
And I really have to say our portfolio management department and the leasing people did an outstanding job and have kind of gotten ahead what we’ve asked them to do this year which is quite positive.
In addition to that we acquired 145 properties and that’s the reason for the change in the numbers.
I mentioned last quarter I thought we’d see a I think 30-basis-point jump in occupancy for the quarter and very pleased that it came in higher than that.
I’ve mentioned this the last couple quarters and now I’ll do it much quicker than I used to.
But there are three ways to calculate occupancy.
The first is physical which is taking the number of vacant properties 75 and divide it by the 2 762 total and that’s the one we publish in the press release that gets us to 2.7% vacancy and 97.3 in occupancy.
A second way is to take the vacant square footage in the portfolio and divide it by total square footage.
If you run it that way we get 2.3% vacancy and 97.7% occupancy a little higher.
And then the third way to do it is pretty much economic which is take the previous rent on vacant properties and you can divide that by the sum of that number and the rent paid on the occupied properties and then you can run it in dollar terms.
And if you use that methodology vacancy is only about 2% and occupancy at 98%.
Obviously any of the three represent high occupancy and we’ll mention each as we do these quarterly calls in the future.
Same-store rents on the portfolio decreased 1.1% during the second quarter and also year-to-date excluding the impact of some rent reductions which was done in the reorganizations of Buffet’s and Friendly’s.
It was a same-store rent increase of about 1.1% so you can see the impact and where that came from during the quarter.
It’s likely the impact from both of those tenants will probably stay in the same-store rent number through the end of the year and then we’ll have been through the 4 quarters since that was undertaken and it’s likely then same-store rent will turn positive as we get early in the next year.
If you look where same-store rent and declines came from 6 industries had declining same-store rent which would be auto service auto tire bookstores I think of which we have one craft and novelties and office supplies.
But really the vast majority of it came from casual dining which is where we have Buffet’s and Friendly’s and that was about $1.9 million.
There were three industries that had flat same-store rents equipment services shoe stores and transportation and then 22 of our industries saw same-store rent increases with only a couple that have larger numbers sporting goods health and fitness and quick-service restaurant and then the balance was really spread out amongst a lot of different industries.
And if you put the 22 industries together they had an increase of about 1 million for a net decline between all three of down one.
And the percentages as I said earlier are pretty much the same whether you’re looking at the quarterly or year-to-date.
And we remain well-diversified being up to 2 762 properties.
That’s up 131 properties from last quarter.
And they’re in 38 different industries with 136 significant tenants in 49 states.
We continue to work down our industry exposures.
Convenience stores our largest industry is down to 16.9% down a little from last quarter and a couple hundred basis points from a year ago.
And then restaurants if you combine both casual and quick-services is down at – now down to 13.8.
It was at one time over 20% and that’s down 80 basis points from the last quarter and just under 4% 370 basis points from a year ago.
Then it falls pretty quick to theaters which is under 10 at 9.6 and health and fitness came down at 6.9.
And while those continue to be industries we like a lot and we’ll probably do some additional acquisitions there we think we’ll be able to keep those in pretty good shape.
The only other one over 5% is beverages.
So we think industry standpoint in fairly good shape and the same on a tenant standpoint.
You can see in the release AMC is our largest at 5.2 LA Fitness at 5 and then everything else is under 5% today and again the top 15 about 48.
And when you get down to the 15 largest tenant about 2.2% of revenue is what they represent and when you get 20 it gets down which is not on that list but it gets down about 1.8% and falls fairly quickly.
So well-diversified there and we think also from a geographic standpoint.
Average remaining lease term on the portfolio remains healthy at 11.1 years.
And as I started the portfolio continues to generate very consistent revenue.
Let me move on to property acquisitions and I’ll start with an update on where we are and kind of where we see volumes going for the year.
As those of you who follow us know we normally report our acquisitions on a quarterly basis after they have closed and don’t report what is under contract since from time to time what is under contract doesn’t close and falls out during the due diligence process.
If you recall in our first quarter call we mentioned that first of all that we thought we would acquire around 650 million in acquisitions this year given what market conditions looked like and what we were seeing in volume.
And then secondly we said we had previously disclosed in an offering document that we did earlier this year for a preferred offering that we had 514 million under contract for acquisitions at that time.
And the reason we disclosed what was under contract the 514 million was really twofold.
Primary was it’s a fairly large number and we thought secondarily in light of doing the preferred offering that that was good disclosure but not our normal disclosure.
During the second quarter we closed on 198 million of that 514 million and another 13 million or so for total acquisitions of just over 210 million.
The remaining 316 million in acquisitions under contract we terminated during the due diligence process and will not close and that puts us at 221 million in acquisitions as of the end of the second quarter.
So we wish more of it had closed but 221 million is where we ended at the end of the quarter.
Relative to where we see things going from here we remained very active on the acquisition’s front and continue to believe we will be still meet the 650 million in acquisitions for the year and that there is a very good chance we’ll end up exceeding that number.
And obviously most of that will now close in the third quarter where we are today and in the fourth quarter.
And while it will be very helpful for our 2013 numbers the impact on 2012 AFFO will be modest.
And that was the reason for the $0.02 adjustment to our FFO and AFFO guidance.
I still think we’ll acquire 650 million or maybe even better now for the year but obviously the timing of when we do that is what impacts the 2012 numbers.
Interestingly had we closed on the 316 million we would likely be guiding to around 1 billion again this year in acquisitions and I only point that out to say that as I’ve talked about for a long time when working on these larger transactions which we tend to do it can cause acquisitions to be very lumpy and hard to predict on a quarter-over-quarter or year-over-year basis.
And anyway John why don’t you spend some time and make some comments relative to the activity we did and kind of what you’re seeing out there.
Sure.
The second quarter was fairly active for acquisitions.
As Tom said we acquired 145 properties for approximately 211 million at an average cap rate of 7.1% and an average lease term of 15 years.
The credit profile of the tenants we added was pretty attractive.
98% of the acquisitions or leased – tenants with investment-grade credit ratings.
The acquisitions were leased to five tenants in five separate industries.
Four of the five tenants were existing tenants of ours.
These tenants operate predominantly in the general merchandise drug store and transportation services industries.
The acquisitions were geographically diversified located in 28 states and 95% of our acquisitions activity was comprised of our traditional retail assets.
That brings us to 147 properties acquired for 222 million for the first two quarters of the year at an average cap rate of 7.2% and an average lease term of 15 years.
Let me spend a second talking about acquisition yields and investment spreads.
Acquisition yields have continued to come down a bit and there are two principal reasons for this.
The first is cap rates are coming down as interest rates and investment yields in general continue to decline.
A second reason is we’ve acquired a much higher percentage of our properties with investment-grade tenants which offer lower yields than we had previously.
90% of the assets we have acquired during the first and second quarters are leased to investment-grade tenants.
So we have continued to improve the credit profile of our tenant base but we have sacrificed some yield to do so.
However our investment spreads the spread between our initial yields and our nominal cost of equity defined as our FFO yield adjusted for issuance cost have continued to be very attractive relative to where they have been historically.
Our year-to-date average cap rate of 7.2% represents more than a 200 basis point spread to our nominal cost of equity at the end of the second quarter.
This compares favorably to our average spread of 110 basis points over the previous 17 years especially when you factor in that we acquired assets leased to investment-grade tenants in only two of those years; 2010 and 2011.
Our 2011 investment spread was 170 basis points when 40% of our acquisitions were with investment-grade tenants.
So we have been able to improve our investment spreads while moving up the credit curve this year with 90% of our acquisitions leased to investment-grade tenants.
When compared to our current weighted average cost of capital factoring in the cost of our debt our investment spreads are of course a bit higher 230 basis points this year above our weighted average cost of capital.
As you know we also track our cap rates relative to the 10-year treasury yields and since our IPO you’ve heard me say this before since our IPO in 1994 our cap rates have averaged 475 basis points over the corresponding 10-year treasury yields.
In 2011 our cap rates averaged 500 basis points over the 10-year treasury yield.
This year our cap rates have averaged approximately 575 basis points over the 10-year treasury yield.
So we believe this is a great time for us to acquire at very attractive spreads while enhancing the credit profile of our tenant base.
Transaction flow continues to be strong.
We remain comfortable as Tom said with our acquisitions guidance of 650 million for 2012.
We’ve sourced 8 billion in acquisition opportunities through the end of the second quarter this year.
As you recall we sourced 13 billion in acquisition opportunities in 2011 and ended up closing 1 billion of those acquisitions.
Retail and distribution properties continue to account for the majority of what we’re seeing and approximately 50% of these sourced acquisitions have been properties leased to investment grade tenants.
We’re continuing to pursue a number of these opportunities and anticipate an active second half of the year as far as acquisitions goes.
We’re still seeing competition from property portfolios from multiple sources with a lot of capital.
This is not new.
We should remain competitive in the marketplace though.
This competition should continue to put some pressure on investment yields though.
In our last call you may recall we stated that we expected cap rates to average 7.5% – 7.75% for the year.
We now expect our initial yields or cap rates for 2012 to average just a shade less than 7.5%.
Of course this will ultimately be a function of the mix between investment grade and non-investment grade properties we acquire for the balance of the year.
So we believe our investment spreads will continue to hold up well in this environment and should exceed the spreads we have achieved historically even as we acquire properties leased to higher credit tenants.
Tom? Thank you.
Obviously it’s very nice to see a large transaction flow and continue to think that we’ll acquire what our targets have been or more but do wish that all of the properties under contract would have closed.
We think acquisitions is going to continue to play a big role obviously first in continuing to grow our revenue in AFFO which is what really drives our dividend increases.
And then secondly and equally important to us right now in adjusting really the makeup of the portfolio where we’re trying to more sharply define where we want to be when we’re in retail and then also as we move outside of retail and importantly as John mentioned up the credit curve.
Let me move on.
Relative to the balance sheet just quickly with access to capital we’re in very good shape as Paul mentioned.
Plenty of dry powder to execute on the acquisitions and the new $1 billion credit facility is very helpful in that light.
Looking at permanent capital obviously where our share price is trading is attractive as is – the debt markets are very attractive and as is preferred and as we acquire additional properties and the balance builds on the facility we look to enter the capital markets and take advantage of that at some time.
But for now only about 18% of that facility is drawn.
On earnings and guidance we’re looking – as the release says – for 2.00 to 2.04 per share and FFO that includes the $0.03 of non-cash charge from the preferred.
And then AFFO of 2.06 to 2.11 and that’s 2.5% to 5% growth.
And that number really is our primary focus as it best really represents the recurring cash flow that we use to pay dividends.
And speaking of dividends we do remain optimistic that our activities will support continued dividend increases.
As most of you know we’ve historically raised the dividend in fairly equal amount each quarter and then looked in our August board meeting to see if a fifth larger increase in the dividend is warranted to keep our payout ratio kind of in the 85% to 87% range which is where we’re comfortable of AFFO.
And our AFFO payout ratio is in that range now and continues to grow and the board will have that discussion on an additional larger dividend increase in our board meeting next month.
And I think that pretty much does it and why don’t we – Liz if we could open up the questions at this time that’d be great.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of RJ Milligan with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Tom you often run through the acquisition funnel in terms of deals that come in through the door versus the number that you actually close on.
And I know we don’t often hear about deals that are under contract that get terminated.
I’m just wondering what percentage of the deals that do get under contract end up getting terminated through the due diligence process? It’s very spotty and most of the properties that we put under contract generally do close but occasionally fall out.
And it’s hard just to put a percentage on it.
This obviously was one large one but it does happen and kind of trickles through the year.
And usually what it is is you’ll go through the approval of the tenant you do the site checks you do most of the work and then what happens as you put it under contract and do a lot of the final work – if it falls out it’s usually either title issues or something with the property condition.
Occasionally you can find out that there’s some planned condemnations or there’s some termination rights or something you know right around the lease.
Obviously environmental – that happens from time to time.
And then a few times for us over the years – since we do a lot of work in larger transactions where the real estate is just one piece of the financing package for an acquisition of an entity it can fall out by one or more pieces of that doing it.
And if you look at a typical year it’ll be a few properties here and there and with this one it was a larger transaction that we worked on with a number of parties and everybody was moving forward and then the decision was made to pull it pretty late in the diligence.
So it’s hard to see “Gee the number under contract is 100 and generally close 92.6.” It’ll be – we’ll close it all one year close it all the next year close 95 one year and then in a situation like this in a big chunk it’s hard to tell.
And of the 316 that was terminated does that – is that mostly an existing tenant or is this a new tenant? It was an existing tenant I believe but we had a small position with them.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Josh.
Tom you mentioned the growth outlook for the back half of the year.
You’re still pretty confident to get to 600 million to 650 million of acquisitions.
I’m just wondering how much of that is dependent on I guess an LBO or an M&amp;A sort of outlook or is that just people who are trying to modify existing real estate today? It’s pretty granular.
Isn’t it John? Yes.
It’s a little of both but it’s well-diversified.
As usual the ultimate number will depend on our success on some of the larger portfolios.
But I would say there’s some emanating from private equity-generated acquisition opportunities some we’re working on directly with private developers and some we’re working directly on with tenants.
So it’s really – when I look at the pipeline it’s not concentrated in one single area.
Does that help? Yes.
Last year as you recall – and John you can help me with the numbers – we bought a billion and there were 3 large transactions that if you totaled them up they were...
Yes 850 million...
Yes.
And so...
Three large portfolio transactions.
It was very concentrated last year.
And as I look down the list of what we’re looking at it seems to be in a lot more transactions than it was last year although some number decent size.
Okay.
Tom you mentioned before about some of the releasing gains that were done in the quarter.
What’s roughly the split in occupancy gains between releasing and acquisition? Gosh I’m sorry.
I’d have to sit down and do the math.
But I think if you look at this we leased or sold – I think it was...
20-plus? And then we bought 140...
140 but that’s on a base of 2 600 already.
So I would think – and this is top of my head.
I’d have to grab a calculator.
Maybe two-thirds really came from leasing.
Okay.
That sounds fair.
Last question.
You guys were mentioning your typical spread on cap rates versus your cost of capital.
How do you think about your equity cost of capital today I guess given the dividend yield and given the fantastic run the shares have had over the last five years? Yes.
As we always say when we discuss equity cost of capital we realize it’s as much a philosophical and religious discussion as it is a financial one.
But what we try and do first of all is – we’re in a business kind of like a bank where you’re working on spread and you need to make it upfront and so we kind of focus on a forward AFFO yield which is obviously AFFO divided by stock price and then we’ll gross it up for issuance and then say “Okay.
Where are we coming in over that to begin?” And we really start with equity and that’s the number where historically it’s been about 110 basis points and at the end of the second quarter it was about 200.
And then what we do is we’ll throw in the other type of capital which is debt which has huge spreads today and obviously is very attractive and then preferred which we issued at the beginning of the year.
So as I said there’s only about 18% of the line drawn right now but as some of these get closed in the third and fourth quarter we’ll start thinking about which way we want to go.
We’ll watch the markets at that time.
But let me tell you spreads are very large all over and we have as you know well – I think we’ve issued equity 20 times since we became public in ‘94 and that’s been at a stock price of $19 to $34 to fund accretive acquisitions.
So that’s worked out pretty well for the shareholders and we’ve kept debt today I think it’s 23.8% or 23.9% on the balance sheet so there’s a lot of room there too.
So we think that’s all very attractive right now given where spreads are.
Sounds good.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
With your bigger line Tom do you plan to clear it as often I guess from an equity issuance standpoint or will you maybe play a bit of the “I think interest rates are going to stay low” game? Yes.
We’ve historically as you know not been one to play that game.
The reason for getting the bigger line is we’re working on bigger transactions.
And with that said though it is efficient particularly when you look at the debt markets when you issue to make sure it’s index-eligible and so you need to do in size.
I think it’s 250-plus.
And also with equity I think we’d rather go out if we’re -even if we’re buying a lot and funding a lot not do small offerings five times a year.
It’s a little easier for I think the equity side of the street if you fund when you do it in bigger chunks.
So we’ll probably leave a little more on the line but that is a function of not really making a call on interest rates but a little more comfort and availability to do transactions out there when you have a little bit on the line.
Okay.
All right.
Good.
Thank you.
And then on the disposition front you guys accelerated a bit in the second quarter and you had talked about how you were going to do that.
You had laid out quarterly for us kind of what you were thinking.
But now I’m curious as you have slowed the acquisitions a bit because as you said you might have been close to $1 billion of acquisitions as you slow that a bit do you also slow the disposition process or are they really unrelated? Yeah those are levers we could certainly pull because you really want to start and making sure you have some good AFFO growth to grow the dividend.
But with that said it is a priority for us and we’ll think we’ll close what we probably would have last quarter but it’ll just be later in the year.
But we haven’t slowed disposition.
We did five properties for 3.6 in the first quarter and then 14 for I think 15 million in the second.
And the third quarter I think we will do more than we did in the second and I’d like to do another 50 million or so the balance of the year.
I think that’d get us to around 70 million for the year and most important the run rate up a little bit.
And then in the beginning of the year we can kind of polish off the first 100 million that we put out there.
And then we’re likely just going to grab another 100 million and start off again next year.
But if we could get the run rate 50 million to 100 million a year and then we can take a look at all the other levers and all the other variables and looking at the company’s cash flows and work off that.
But we’re very active.
There’s – right now we’re at a point where there’s 10 to 15 that are in some property – some type of closing whether you’re just putting them under LLI or whether you’re – they’ve gone non-contingent.
And then I think we’ve got 28 properties out on the market and then a good-sized group of properties behind that can go out and that’s on the 100 million.
So we do intend to be active but if I can get to a run rate of 50 million to 100 million a year at the end of the quarter.
And kind of next year get into – or at the end of the year and next year get it up around 100 million we’d be happy.
Okay.
Good.
Thank you.
And then is Crest officially gone now or is it just irrelevant? I mean you did mention it for the first time that I can remember in the press release and I’m assuming the properties are gone.
So is it – have you done away with it? No.
It’s still just hanging out there and I think it’s got three properties in it and then two mortgages that we took back so it’s generating some income.
It just didn’t have any activity so we kind of left it out there.
But actually with the acquisition that was under contract and didn’t close we did plan to put some properties in there and use it.
It wasn’t going to be a huge number but we will use it if we think it helps us from a diversification standpoint in doing something but we don’t look at – for it to become active over the next quarter or so.
Okay.
And then Friendly’s and Buffet’s – are we run rate at this point on those two? Yes.
I think we are on those.
The leasing – I think we said that we thought the Friendly’s – we would recover about 80% and I looked this morning and we’ve updated that number.
We think it’ll be a little higher – around 82.
And then Buffet’s – yes I think we had said about a 65 recovery.
That’s also looking a little better just by a couple hundred basis points or so.
And then the leasing in Friendly’s – we had in the model not to really lease anything this year and it’s gone faster than that.
That was part of what this quarter was.
And similar on Buffet’s.
So I’d say run rate and just moving through and maybe a little bit above what we thought recoveries would be.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Emanuel Porchman with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Just had a – with the properties that you ultimately terminated the contracts on was that purely a property characteristic or a title characteristic or the environmental issue that you talked about earlier – was there pricing involved too? It wasn’t – yes.
It wasn’t pricing and it wasn’t one of those others; it was the overall transaction moving away from of which we part of.
And I apologize.
Beyond that I can’t say much.
There were a number of parties involved and our confidentiality agreement was only cleared to discuss when it closed and since it didn’t close we’re still under it and since we plan to do future transactions with those parties – perhaps not on these assets – I really can’t go much further.
But it was the transaction itself that went away.
Understood.
And then on last quarter’s call you had discussed about a third of what you look at being investment-grade and obviously you’re closing a hyper-percentage of stuff as investment-grade tenants.
Is that really sort of a consistent run rate or was that simply the portfolio you were looking at the time and how much of the 650 for the year – how much of it is going to end up being 650 as investment-grade I guess is my question.
Great.
Of course it’s subject to what closes and doesn’t but John maybe you’d take a run at that.
Right.
The 90% we’ve closed year to date that’s investment-grade is high.
I would expect it to come down a bit based on what’s in the pipeline and what we’re working on but it is dependent upon some of these larger portfolios – some of which are not investment-grade some of which are investment-grade.
But I would expect it to be a little higher than where it was last year at the end of the year if I had to guess and last year...
Right now ballpark.
Yeah.
50% or so.
Yeah.
It’s hard to tell but it is as I said one of the things we’re trying to do.
And above and beyond just investment grade I would say even when you get below investment grade it tends to be on average a little higher credit than it might have been in the past.
And that’s intentional too.
But...
Perfect.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Lukasik with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Just to follow-up on the investment grade question.
I guess sort of in an ideal world five to 10 years down the road what percentage of the portfolio would you guys like to have in the investment grade category? Yeah.
We haven’t been as exactly specific but we’d like to move that up.
And again I’ll allude to what I just said which is some of the things that aren’t investment-grade will be cut and if they have very high cash flows we’ll be happy with that.
But right now we’ve gone from zero to close to 20% in between 15 to 20 today and in just a couple of years and we’d be very happy five six years down the line if that was 50% to 60%.
And we think that that’s something that we’ll be very happy about down the road.
There will come a point likely but interest rates do get higher although they could stay low for some time and so we are really working for five six seven years down the road and if it could be 50 60 70 that’d be just fine.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just curious about the timing of the acquisitions that did close in the quarter were there early late middle? Virtually all of them were at the end of the quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks for taking my questions guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
Just looking at the average of investment per property in the second quarter.
It looks around the 1.5 million range.
Is this a reflection of the type of deals you’re looking at right now or am I looking too much into that? Yeah.
It’s just what actually closed.
And as John said the vast majority of this quarter was in retail and traditionally those are smaller and these were a little smaller too.
So I don’t think it’s really anything targeted.
There was just a cluster of retail with smaller stores this quarter.
That’s likely to increase over the next quarter – a few quarters and be a larger number per property.
Have you guys talked about the tenants? Have you disclosed who the tenants are and specifically what industries within retail? John you talked about the industries I think a little earlier in the call which was general merchandise drug store...
And transportation services.
And then I think there was a little QSR.
Yeah.
A little QSR.
And so those were the industries.
But we didn’t do the tenants individually but if you look into the top 15 you’ll see that there were some increases in some names and some that popped in for the first time.
Okay.
Thanks.
And John the blended cap rate was 7.1.
If some of these properties were going to go individually are they going for higher or is there a portfolio premium that we should look at? I think there is a portfolio premium today in that $100 million to $200 million range.
Buyers are trying to get capital efficiently invested.
When you get above 200 million that premium goes away because there’s just a limited number of players who can execute transactions in excess of 200 million without financing contingencies.
So there is a bit of a portfolio premium at that level 150 million.
Todd I think one’s talking cap rates one’s talking price.
I think when you do a portfolio in the 100 million to 200 million range today it actually – you may pay a tiny bit more than you would on a one-off.
Above that number you would pay less than a one-off and it’s not a huge spread but it’s a little bit of a spread given the number of people out trying to put capital out in bulk.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Tom.
And really who – back to the disposition discussion who are the buyers to support the volumes that go in excess of 50? If you say you’re going to shoot for 50 million to 100 million what kind of buyers are you looking at? To date it has been all individual buyers.
The numbers in terms of property size is fairly small as you can see by how many we sold and what the value were.
And there is a 1031 market again today to some extent because with the declining cap rates there are some gains out there in commercial property.
So some have been there.
And – but that was the majority of kind of one-offs years ago.
Today it’s maybe a third 1031 and the other two-thirds are just people looking for yield.
They are yield-starved out in the marketplace and so when something comes out and has a name on it and has an attractive yield the prices are – the cap rates are lower than we had anticipated when we started doing this.
We were thinking on some of these it would be up in the 9 and 10s and it’s down into the 8s and 7s.
So they’re individuals.
One of the things we may do as we move along here given that there are some people out there trying to look to put away money in little – larger pieces is we may package some up and work through a few people and look for a little more quasi-institutional buyer for some of the assets.
But today it’s been all individual.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And just lastly I’ll just ask Paul a question.
There doesn’t seem to be much change expected in the second half of the year with your property operating expense guidance.
Is it fair to say you’re not expecting any new vacancies? And if that’s the case how long a lead time do you generally get for tenants soy if you notice when they’re moving out? Well as a general comment on that area the estimate did go down.
I think last quarter I estimated 9.2 million for the year.
Now that estimate is closer to $9 million.
The increase that we’ve had has really not been a bad debt expense; it’s been more some costs on vacant properties; insurance legal fees things like that.
The down time – historically we used to say six to nine months.
I’d say over the past handful of years that widened it became more nine to 12 months or sometimes more.
And that has started to tighten a bit back to the more normalized run rate which – let’s call it nine months to kind of answer your question.
So it did widen even further than that but I think it’s been getting better and the folks in portfolio management have been able to release things a little quicker than they were say 18 months ago.
On the how much lead-time do we get when a tenant has a problem? We have a few properties in the portfolio that it’s a one-man show where we released and then it’s generally the rent doesn’t show up.
But in the vast majority of the cases we have large tenants.
And so we’re trying to do some job of monitoring their situation.
We normally do get a lead-time.
Not always but normally we’ll know 90 days ahead of time or so and sometimes five six months that mom’s on the roof or something’s going on.
And today that – as I said earlier there was nothing that came up during the second quarter and we don’t anticipate anything in the third quarter.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And actually I did have one last question.
If you could just address the development piece of the new properties that you purchased in the second quarter? Yes.
Of that total about 3 million was development-oriented investments.
So very little of it.
These are new construction.
They’re pre-leased.
They’re just not cash-flowing yet? Yes correct.
And I’ll just comment on that right now.
We have five properties under development and it’s not a huge amount of money and then three re-developments.
And in those if you look at it the total cost will be about 31 million and we’ve already funded 21 million so there’s only about 9.8 million to be funded.
And in each case it’s a situation where we have the tenant and there is somebody building the building and we were able to go in and buy it during the construction period and it’s going to get built when the lease is already in place.
So you’re not taking lease upward.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Lesnick with Robert W Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Just standing in real quick for Paula Poskon.
Most of the other questions we had have been answered at this point but just a quick one.
How much of that occupancy increase was due to vacant properties being reclassified as held for sale? None.
None.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
That’s all I got.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This concludes the Q&amp;A portion of the Realty Income conference call.
I will now turn the call back to Tom Lewis for closing remarks.
I’d like to thank everybody for joining us and thank you for your time.
I know it’s a busy earnings season.
And if not before we’ll talk to you at the next quarter.
Thank you again Liz.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Realty Income second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
If you would like to listen to a replay of today’s conference please dial 1-800-406-7325 or 303-590-3030 and enter access code 4552149 followed by the # sign.
We’d like to thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Realty Income Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is also being recorded today Thursday October 25 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host for today Mr.
Tom Lewis CEO Realty Income.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much operator and good afternoon everyone and welcome to the conference call to review our operations and results for the third quarter.
In the room with me today as usual is Gary Malino our President and Chief Operating Officer; Paul Meurer our Executive Vice President and CFO; and John Case our EVP and CIO and Tere Miller our Executive Vice – excuse me Vice President almost promoted you Tere of Corporate Communications.
And as always we’ll say during this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in the forward-looking statements and we will disclose in greater detail on the company’s Form 10-Q the factors that may cause such differences.
On our call today we’ll focus on our third quarter and year-to-date operational performance for the company.
But before we get into that let me start with just a brief comment on our merger with American Realty Capital Trust or ARCT.
As most of you know we announced on September 6 that we had reached an agreement to merge the two companies and then after our announcement of the agreement we filed an S-4 proxy with the Securities and Exchange Commission which is where it sits today and it is currently in review.
Following that review which we anticipate will conclude in the near future we also anticipate getting a final and then effective proxy sent out to all of the shareholders of both the companies.
And at that time we’ll be having an opportunity to talk to all of the parties involved about what we think is an attractive opportunity for the shareholders of both companies and we then move forward towards an approval of that transaction and ultimately close it but we’ll engage in that time and I’m sure a fair amount of discussion about it.
We continue to anticipate closing the transaction towards the end of the year.
So we look forward to more discussion on that once the transaction proxy is effective for us.
I’d invite those with any additional questions for now.
If they haven’t reviewed the S-4 it is currently filed at Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on EDGAR.
And obviously after we have comments we’ll make any changes and get that out.
Moving then on to our operating results let me start with an overview of the numbers and Paul as usual if you’ll do that for us.
Thanks Tom.
So as usual I’ll just comment briefly on our financial statements provide a few highlights of our financial results for the quarter starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 13.2% for the quarter.
Our revenue for the quarter was approximately $120 million or $480 million on an annualized basis.
This obviously reflects a significant amount of new acquisitions over the past year.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased by about $6.2 million in the comparative quarterly period.
Depreciation expense obviously increased as our property portfolio continues to grow.
Interest expense increased by almost $1.2 million and this increase this quarter was due to our credit facility borrowings throughout the quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remain strong with interest coverage at 3.7 times and fixed charge coverage at 2.7 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the third quarter were approximately $9.3 million similar to the rate for last quarter.
Our G&amp;A expenses increased this year as our acquisition activity has increased.
We have added some new personnel throughout the year and our proxy process this past spring was more expensive than usual.
We’ve spent $795 000 of acquisition due diligence costs during this quarter and our employee base has grown from 80 employees a year ago to 92 employees today.
However our current total projection for G&amp;A for all of 2012 is approximately $36 million which will still represent only about 7.5% of total revenues.
Property expenses were just under $2 million for the quarter and these are expenses associated primarily with the properties that we have available for lease.
Our current estimate for property expenses for all of 2012 remains about $9 million.
Merger-related costs this new line item refers to the cost associated with the ARCT acquisition.
During the quarter we expensed approximately $5.5 million of such costs and this amount includes accruals for some of the expected total cost for completing the transaction.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the company and they were just over $400 000 during the quarter.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $1.9 million.
This income is associated with our property sales activity during the quarter.
We sold 11 properties during the quarter for $15.8 million an important reminder that we do not include property sales gains in either our FFO or our AFFO.
Preferred stock cash dividends totaled approximately $10.5 million for the quarter.
This increase compared to last year obviously reflects the issuance of our preferred F stock earlier this year.
Excess of redemption value we’re carrying by our preferred shares redeemed was not this quarter but it is in the year-to-date column.
This refers to the $3.7 million non-cash redemption charge in the first quarter associated with the repayment of our outstanding preferred B stock with proceeds from our preferred F offering.
Reminder that a replacement of the preferred B stock in our capital structure did save us about $1 million cash annually.
Net income available to common stockholders was about $27 million for the quarter.
Beginning this quarter we’ve included a normalized FFO calculation.
Normalized FFOs simply adds back the $5.5 million of ARCT merger related costs to FFO.
We believe normalized FFO is a more appropriate portrayal of our operating performance and is consistent with our public FFO earnings estimates and first call FFO estimate that analysts have already published on us.
Normalized FFO per share was $0.52 for the quarter a 4% increase versus a year ago.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash that we have available for distribution as dividends was $0.52 per share for the quarter; a 2% increase versus a year ago.
Year-to-date AFFO was $1.52 per share also a 2% increase versus last year.
While it may vary by quarter our AFFO annually will continue to be higher than our FFO.
So far this year our AFFO has been $0.05 higher.
Our AFFO has been higher because our capital expenditures are still fairly low in the portfolio.
We continue to have minimal straight line rent adjustments in our current portfolio and we have some FAS 141 non-cash reductions to FFO for in-place leases acquired in some of the larger portfolio transactions that we’ve done.
And then in 2012 specifically we have the $3.7 million non-cash preferred redemption charge.
We increased our cash monthly dividend twice during the third quarter including the larger $0.06 annualized increase in August.
We’ve now increased the dividend 60 consecutive quarters and 68 times overall since we went public 18 years ago this month.
Our AFFO dividend payout ratio for the quarter was 85%.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we’ve continued to maintain a conservative and safe capital structure we think.
Earlier this month we raised $800 million of new capital with our issuance of $350 million of 2% unsecured fixed-rate notes due in 2018 and $450 million of 3.25% unsecured fixed-rate notes due in 2022.
We were very pleased with the successful offering and we are grateful for the bond investors who continue to support us with their capital.
With the bond offering proceeds we were able to completely payoff the borrowings on our $1 billion dollar unsecured acquisition credit facility which continues today to have a zero balance.
We also have today an excess cash balance of approximately $160 million from the bond offering proceeds.
Our current total debt to total market cap is 30% and our preferred stock outstanding still is only 7% of our capital structure.
And our only debt maturity in the next three years is $100 million bond maturity in March of next year.
So in summary we currently have excellent liquidity.
And our overall balance sheet remains very safe and well-positioned to support our acquisition growth including the ARCT acquisition later this year.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tom and he’ll give you more background on these results.
Thanks Paul.
And I’ll kind of walk through as is our tradition the different areas of the business and let me start with the portfolio.
During the third quarter the portfolio continued to generate very consistent cash flow with tenants doing well and no significant issues arising outside of our normal operations.
At quarter’s end our 15 largest tenants accounted for 46.8% of our revenue that’s down 520 basis points from the same period a year ago and 170 basis points from the second quarter.
So our acquisition efforts continue to reduce concentrations in the portfolio.
The average cash flow coverage rent at the store level for the tenants remains high at just over 2.5 times which is very little movement from last quarter with a similar number but quite healthy.
We ended the third quarter with 97% occupancy and 84 properties available for lease out of the 2 838 we own.
That occupancy was down about 30 basis points from the second quarter.
For the quarter we had 27 new vacancies.
That is a little higher than we usually get and was really a function that we have 25 buffet restaurants that came off lease right at the beginning of the quarter.
And we have seen those coming off so I think made some comments on last quarter’s call that occupancy maybe a little softer but not much 97% for the quarter.
During the quarter we did release 15 of those.
We’ve released another couple since the end of the quarter and they make a good a good part of the 18 properties that we leased or sold during the quarter.
We also acquired 87 properties and that was the reason for the movement but quite solid at 97%.
As I’ve mentioned for the last few quarters and we will each time now is there is three ways to calculate occupancy: one is taking the number of vacant properties which is 84 and dividing it by our total of 2 838 properties and that’s how we get to 3% vacancy and 97% occupancy.
Second methodology is take the square footage that is vacant and divide it by the total square footage that would give us a 2.1% vacancy and 97.9% occupancy 90 basis points higher than the first method.
And then the third way which is more of an economic way of looking at it is take the previous rent on vacant properties and divide it by the sum of that number and rent on occupied properties.
And if you use that methodology vacancy is only about 1.7% and occupancy 98.3%.
Obviously any of the three represent fairly high occupancy.
And in the press release we use physical occupancy which is the lowest of the three.
Looking to the next few quarters leasing activity today is brisk.
Lease rollover is reasonable.
The tenants are generally doing well.
So we think occupancy should increase a bit in the fourth quarter and increase a bit going into early next year.
So we think the portfolio is fairly sound very soon from an occupancy standpoint.
Same-store rents in our core portfolio decreased 1% during the third quarter and 0.8% year-to-date.
As we’ve talked about for several quarters now if we exclude the Buffets and Friendly’s reorganization rent adjustment same-store rent and the balance of the portfolio increased 1% during the third quarter and 1.1% year-to-date.
As we look forward the impact of those two will now start rolling off.
And we think that we’ll probably have flat same-store rent in the fourth quarter and then in the first quarter likely go back to the more typical increase that we’ve had in the past of about 1% same-store rent growth.
So we’re optimistic relative to occupancy and same-store rent growth over the next couple of quarters.
Diversification in the portfolio continues to widen.
238 properties which is up over last quarter; 44 different industries 144 different tenants and the footprint in 49 states.
From a geographic standpoint there are no meaningful concentrations around the country.
And probably more important industry exposures are very well diversified.
Again with 44 industries now and concentrations in the larger industries are generally continuing to decline each quarter.
As you probably saw in the press release convenience stores which is our largest industry at 16.3% is down 60 basis points from last quarter and 200 basis points versus a year ago.
Restaurants if you combine both casual dining and quick service now down to about 13.2% that’s off 60 basis points from last quarter and 410 basis points versus a year ago.
And I think more importantly of note there to us is really the decline that we’ve had in casual dining as we acquire in other areas and we’ve been selling off properties in this area and we think that’ll continue.
Casual dining is down I think 360 basis points year-to-date.
And as the chart on Page 11 I believe in the press release shows we’re down to about 7.3% in that sector from over 14% in the last five years or so.
And we will continue to reduce that.
Theaters are at 9.5% that’s down a little bit up for the year.
Health and fitness also down a little bit at 6.7%.
We continue to like both of those sectors theaters and health and fitness and I think we’ll be adding to them.
And then the only other category industry over 5% is beverages.
And additionally this quarter we added six new industries for the portfolio for the first time.
So I think we’re in very good shape and keeping industry concentrations reasonable and generally widening out the diversification.
This quarter in our industry table in the back of the press release we separated our retail industries from our non-retail industries for the first time which should make it a little easier for everybody to see the activity in each of those areas and basically how it’s moving over time and we hope that is helpful.
From an individual tenant standpoint no tenant now represents more than 5% or more of our overall revenue in the portfolio.
Of an interesting note this is the first time in the 43-year history of the company that that has been the case where no tenant is over 5%.
So we continue to become more diversified there.
Our largest at forayed is AMC.
That’s down a bit.
LA Fitness and Diageo are at 4.7% and then everything else is under that.
The 15 largest tenants I mentioned is 46.8% of revenue.
When you get to the 15<sup>th</sup> tenant you’re looking only about 2% of revenue and when you get to number 20 it’s about 1.5%.
So we continue to be well diversified.
The other thing I would note is the continued transformation in our top 15 tenants over the last few years.
As I mentioned concentrations are down quite a bit.
Tenant quality continuing to move up a bit and industry representations are changing as we continue to focus on moving up the credit curve and away from some areas we think are vulnerable to a consumer downturn and we think the list will continue to transition in the coming quarters based on the transactions we’re undertaking now where we’re quite active.
Relative to moving up the credit curve three years ago essentially none of our rent came from investment grade tenants or the subsidiaries; 43-year old company that’s worked very well in that entire period occupancy has never gone below 96%.
And obviously earnings and dividend growth has been excellent.
But it really is – we are trying to make a move in that direction.
And as of the end of the third quarter that number stands a little over now 20% of the portfolio is generated by investment grade tenants.
And upon the closing of the ARCT transaction that would be roughly 35%.
And we continued here in the third quarter and we will in the fourth quarter to buy additional properties leased to investment grade tenants.
We’re also adjusting the portfolio by accelerating property dispositions a bit in certain industries.
Year-to-date we’ve sold 30 properties for $34 million.
That’s for us about $12 million of sales for the same period a year ago and we think that will continue to increase.
We’ll likely sell around $20 million or so in the fourth quarter.
That will get us up around $55 million.
And then we think likely to run in the $75 million to $100 million run rate perhaps a little higher over the next year or so.
Almost all of the sales to-date as a matter of fact all of them out of the investment portfolio what we’re targeting in the industry have been out of the restaurant category with the majority being casual dining restaurants.
We have been pleased that the cap rates for sales have been a little better than we thought.
The properties would have been closed to-date.
The cap has been about $8.19 and on the properties that we currently have under contract for sale now it’s about $7.55.
So it’s been a good environment to be active out in dispositions for us.
Finally on the portfolio our average remaining lease term remains very healthy at 11 years and so given the long-term leases that we have and increased diversification in the portfolio and then the idea we think that same-store rent should accelerate and also occupancy debt we’re very optimistic and continue to see very stable revenue production out of the portfolio.
Let me move on to property acquisitions.
We’re obviously having a lot of success on that front for the first three quarters of the year.
We see that continuing this quarter and in the next year.
And let me turn it over to John Case our Chief Investment Officer and you can walk people through what we’re seeing.
Okay.
We had a very active third quarter for acquisitions this year.
We acquired 87 properties for approximately $496 million.
That was our second most acquisitive quarter in our company’s history.
We acquired these properties at an average cap rate of 7.11% and the average lease term was 13 years.
The credit profile of the tenants we added was very attractive.
51% of the acquisitions are leased to tenants with investments grade credit ratings.
These properties are leased to 19 tenants in 18 separate industries and 11 of the 19 tenants are new tenants for us.
Approximately 70% of the acquisitions were in the dollar store wholesale club food processing and apparel industries and the acquisitions were well geographically diversified and 19 separate states.
Just under 70% of the acquisitions we’re comprised of our traditional retail assets the majority of the balance of the properties were distribution properties.
So through the third quarter of this year we’ve acquired 234 properties for approximately $718 million at an average cap rate of 7.12% which we believe is attractive as we continue to improve our tenant credit profile.
64% of the acquisitions year-to-date are leased tenants with investment grade credit ratings.
The average lease term of these year-to-date acquisitions has been 14.3 years.
There are at least 21 tenants and 19 separate industries and are located in 33 states.
77% of these acquisitions were comprised of our traditional retail assets and again the majority of the balance of the properties are distribution assets.
Let me spend a minute talking about the current status of the acquisitions market.
The market is as active as we’ve ever seen it in our company’s history.
To give you an idea of that year-to-date we’ve sourced $14.9 billion in acquisition opportunities as a company.
Last year during the entire year we sourced $13 billion of acquisition opportunities which was our most active year ever for sourcing acquisitions.
About 60% of these properties sourced are leased to investment grade tenants.
Now while the market remains competitive we’re continuing to pursue a number of these opportunities and expect to close over $1 billion in organic property level acquisitions for 2012.
And of course this would exclude our acquisitions that will be part of our merger with ARCT.
And looking forward we really don’t see a slowdown in acquisition opportunities.
There are a lot of sellers in the market for a number of reasons today and we continue to be engaged in a number of discussions with those sellers.
We remain optimistic relative to both our near-term and intermediate-term acquisition opportunities.
Let me spend a second on cap rates.
As you may have noticed the cap rates have contracted a bit more during the year.
However we believe we’ll end the year with average cap rates in the 7.25% area.
The investment grade properties that we pursue are currently trading in cap rates in the low 6% to low 7% range.
And the non-investment grade properties are trading in the low 7% to low 8% cap rate range.
Our investment spreads continue to be at historical highs though.
Our year-to-date average cap rate of 7.12% represents a 185 basis point spreads our nominal cost of equity which again is our FFO yield adjusted for our cost of raising equity.
That 185 basis points compares quite favorably to our average spread of 110 basis points over the previous 17 years when the vast majority of our acquisitions were with properties – on properties lease to non-investment grade and investment grade tenants.
In 2011 our spreads or our nominal cost of equity on our acquisitions was 170 basis points when 40% of the acquisitions were with investment grade tenants.
So we’ve been able to improve our investment spreads to 185 basis points while continuing to move up the credit curve this year with 64% of our acquisitions being leased to investment grade tenants.
So it’s a great time for us to acquire very attractive spreads while enhancing the credit profile of our tenant base.
Tom.
Thanks John.
Obviously we’re pleased with the acquisitions we’ve closed year-to-date and that are expected to close in the fourth quarter and certainly where spreads are as John mentioned.
And we also think that we’ll start the year off in 2013 faster than we did this year given the transaction flow.
If you recall a year ago the first quarter was fairly slow relative to closings.
And this is all on really the property by property or portfolios we’re seeing here on a granular basis individual properties and really not part of any volume that comes from M&amp;A.
And if you look at the ARCT transaction upon that close that would get us to about $4 billion in additional assets for the year.
And while that’s been the news as of late the $1 billion plus in normal acquisitions for this year as John mentioned would be a record for the company.
I mentioned last quarter and it still holds true and we think it will going forward that acquisitions will continue to play a big role in continuing to grow our revenue and AFFO which is what will drive dividend increases.
And then secondly and equally important to us in adjusting the makeup of our portfolio as time goes on where we’re moving up the credit curve and we’ve made good progress on that front again this quarter.
Paul talked about the balance sheet in excess to capital.
Obviously we’re in very good shape there with plenty of dry powder to execute on acquisitions as they present themselves.
Obviously the $1 billion credit facility is very helpful for that and that is fully available.
And as Paul mentioned we also have $160 million in cash on the balance sheet.
So a lot of capital to do we need to do.
Obviously relative to permanent capital out there the markets remained open and quite attractive.
Looking at the execution on the recent debt offering obviously pricing is just absolutely outstanding and historic in the REIT industry and certainly for us on that transaction.
Equity is attractively priced.
And as is preferred and given cap rates may be 7.25% level for the year spreads very attractive.
Relative to the guidance that we put out a month or so ago there was no changes on that.
In 2012 guidance excluding the one-time costs of the ACRT transaction we’re looking at $2 to $2.4 per share for the year.
Included in that as Paul mentioned is the $0.03 per share non-cash charge from the redemption of our preferred earlier in the year and the AFFO of $2.06 to $2.11 per share which would be about 2.5% to 5% AFFO growth.
And as always that’s our primary focus as it best represents the recurring cash flow from which we pay our dividends.
On 2013 guidance again assuming a 12.31 closing of the ARCT transaction we’re looking for $2.30 to $2.36 per share and AFFO of $2.31 and to $2.37 that’d be 9.5% to 15% AFFO growth for the year.
And again really is the focus given we pay dividends out of that.
Speaking to dividends we remain optimistic that our activities will support the ability to continue increase the dividend.
As Paul mentioned we increased it $0.06 in August and ended the regular quarterly increase in September.
And as most of you know we’ve also mentioned that we closed the ARCT transaction.
We probably raised the dividend about $0.13 a share.
And historically what we’ve done for those that haven’t been with the company a long time we raised the dividend in fairly equal amounts each quarter and then really looked in our August Board meeting to see if a fifth larger increase in the dividend is warranted in order to keep our payout ratio at about 85% to 87% or so of FFO which is our target.
Our AFFO payout ratio is in that range now and obviously the AFFO growth for next year looks pretty attractive.
And in the mid-range of the guidance that would likely get our AFFO payout ratio down around 83% or so by the end of next year which is below where we target.
So at this point we’d anticipate 2013 to be another pretty good year for dividend growth also.
I think that’s it relative to walking over the different pieces of the business.
And operator if we can we’ll go ahead and open it up for questions.
Absolutely (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Emanuel Porchman with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys how are you?  Good.
Looking at the distribution facilities that you acquired I know Tom in the past you’ve spoken about looking at distribution sort of in parallel with retail.
Was that the case here? Was there an overlap with your existing retail tenants I guess before buying those distribution facilities? Actually no the majority of the retail tenants as you know before three years ago were all less investment grade.
And our comfort level historically on retail is obviously having cash flow – EBIDTA cash flow coverage numbers and knowing the P&amp;Ls of the stores we own.
And when we move into the distribution facilities you really don’t have that.
So you’re relying more on the real estate itself.
And what you’re buying and how important it is to the tenant and their need to really use that particular facility.
And so for us also then what we want to do is we want to be going up the credit curve when we’re working on those type of properties.
And that’s the majority of what we’re doing.
So it’s really going to the Fortune 500 or Fortune 1 000 and approaching them relative to those distribution facilities and trying to buy ones that are either well priced and in very good areas for them to support their long-term activities or perhaps they’re right next door to a manufacturing plant for one of their main product lines.
So if you kind of look through the distribution facilities that we bought and in kind of in the last quarter the tenants on those were as an example Whirlpool Corporation was one another tenant was Procter &amp; Gamble another one was PepsiCo another one was obviously FedEx and another Toro.
So all very large investment grade names and that’s generally where we’re focusing.
And I don’t think we own more than one or two distribution facilities and those we bought some time ago with tenants are non-investment grade  Okay.
And then looking at the ARCT transaction sort of say that’s closest does that change the way you approach acquisitions to you than expand your net on what you’re out there looking at?  I don’t think it will materially change where we are right now.
As we’ve said in retail there are areas that we’ve bought in the past that we just want to hold on those we want to sell and then a number that we still find attractive.
And then outside of that it’s really distribution a little manufacturing a little bit of office but not much and perhaps agriculture but all investment grade tenants is what we want to do there.
And that’s where we’re focused.
So that’s pretty much what we get in the ARCT transaction.
And so I would imagine that we’ll stay right on that.
Hey Tom it’s Michael Bilerman speaking.
Good afternoon to you.
Hey Mike.
A quick question just going to the ARCT transaction in a little bit more depth.
You’re clearly aware that there’s probably little bit more investor frustration at least on the ARCT side of the transaction and some pretty vocal shareholders who effectively are going to vote no as the current deal stands.
And I’m just curious as how you’re sort of dealings towards that clearly the proxy is out and everyone can read it but you were the only bidder.
And that was the negotiated transaction that occurred.
But do you have a lot of accretion built into the deals for next year you’ve communicated a sizable list in the dividend.
I guess do you sort of walk away if they vote no? Well obviously if there is a no vote in the transaction yes we would walk away.
We think and if you look at the proxy and I also want to say that again since it’s in the SEC and there’s likely to be some comments.
We want to make sure we don’t go into too much detail until have a final and effective proxy.
But if you read the background section you can see that the negotiations were discussed over time and both parties kind of drew a line well it’s valuation is to where they wanted to go and we weren’t able to get there.
And then after – they started trading that both of the equities moved in a fashion so we could put together a transaction.
But our feeling is that at the time that was announced it was around a 5\9 cap rate today on price it’s around six.
And it’s a very good portfolio 75% investment grade it fits what we’re trying to do strategically very carefully.
But we think we paid a bit of a premium to capture this large portfolio and did so with an attractive issuance of equity.
But for us the price that we’re paying here is we think a full price in and yes we would walk away.
As we mentioned we have $1 billion plus in acquisition.
So that’s granular and we also have a great feeling about how next year is going to work out and so we would do that.
However we do believe that the majority of the shareholders once we have the final perspective their proxy out we’ll be able to engage in conversations and think we will get a yes vote on the transaction from both groups of shareholders for whom we think there are very good benefits.
Is there any cost if there is a no vote? Do you have to incur or any sort of cost? Obviously there were some cost to the transaction that but what would that sort of is there any penalties or anything that would; we’d have to be mindful of? Yeah I think it’d be minor if there was a no vote by either party and I think in our case I think we would have about $4 million that would be due as to pay for the fees of the transaction.
And then we’re figuring out exactly what those would be if there was a no vote.
But it’s relatively closer to that that would pay for the majority of it.
And that really wouldn’t see a significant impact.
I think it’s the same on the other way with that for us in a no vote.
But I don’t think there’s much if any chance of that whatsoever.
And then I just guessed you had raised a lot of unsecured debt capital.
So effectively you’d be a little bit I guess over capitalized from that standpoint relative to the transaction? Yeah we would not be actually Michael we had obviously a very big quarter in acquisitions and we look for a substantial quarter in the fourth quarter and running the number backwards to get to a little over $1 billion in acquisition.
So really with $160 million sitting in cash we’ll easily use that for closing properties in the fourth quarter.
And then it just means the full line would be fully available if we did not do the transaction.
And if we do the transaction which we fully anticipate we can do it on the line.
Okay great.
Well it’s good to hear that you are going to stick firm on your exchange ratio and not try to engage in a self bidding.
Right.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Hi good afternoon.
Hi Josh.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> You guys have covered most of my questions already.
Just one quick one I guess getting to the enterprise value that you will be post ARCT.
At least assuming that there will be a post ARCT what would you say your minimum deal size is when you’re looking in the acquisition market today and how that has changed over the last couple of years?  Yeah it’s really grown over the years.
We’ve always been more than willing to do a one-off transaction of a small nature and add it and happy to do that today.
But over the years we’ve gone where $50 million back when we were $500 million in assets would be a 10% allocation to a tenant.
And that was kind of our threshold.
And sitting at $11.4 billion you can go out and do a $0.5 billion transaction with a tenant and still retain under 5% with an individual tenant and then relative to a portfolio or additional M&amp;A with a multiple tenant portfolio.
It really gives us a lot of flexibility.
So the ability to do larger transaction is certainly enhanced by completing this merger.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong>  Okay and one last thing.
You had mentioned some comments about CapEx and why straight-line rents were a bit higher this quarter.
Would you expect some more of that I guess in the next couple of quarters with Buffet’s and Friendly’s releasing we think process is mostly done at this point?  Yes we’re pretty well along the way of getting the majority of anything from Friendly’s or Buffet’s done.
So there shouldn’t be a lot there relative to CapEx on that.
Yeah CapEx overall Josh has gone up a little bit.
Historically we had virtually none.
Our current projected run rate for this year and next year is about $6 million to $7 million total which of course is on a $500 million plus revenue portfolio.
So still a relatively small number but a little higher than it has been in the past.
Some of that is investing in existing properties to assist in the re-leasing of those as you’ve guessed.
But overall still the large portion of the portfolio or most and all of it is more so triple-net and we’re not responsible for those sorts of expenses.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong>  Okay that’s great.
Thanks very much guys and good luck.
Thank you.
And then next question comes from the line of RJ Milligan with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon Rich.
Couple of questions.
Going forward for 2013 do you think the mix of retail versus non-retail at 75:25 do you expect that to continue?  It’s going to be transaction-driven RJ that we think that’s a very nice mix but if that was 60:40 that wouldn’t really bothered us either way.
We’re really out after those areas of retail that we can buy quite aggressively and if there was 100% quarter where it was all on the retail that’d be fine with us too.
And looking quarter-to-quarter we’re really not focused on trying to balance that but overall if I had to guess 75:25 is not a bad number 60:40 is not a bad number.
Now in terms of the opportunity set is there a larger opportunity set of acquisitions in the non-retail bucket and you’re just choosing to pursue that 75:25 mix or what do the opportunities look like?  I’ll let John comment but it’s changing as time goes on as it’s been interesting over the years.
In the mid ‘90s we entered the convenience store business and it really took us two three years where everybody that was in that business knew we were out acquisitive and we were really able to accelerate thing and in movie theaters it was the same thing.
And so now for really last year and this year and in particular mostly this year because most of what we bought in that area last year came from the ECM transaction.
We’re now getting traction with people knowing that we are out there and we are buying this type of property.
So our flow is increasing.
Yeah.
So let me give you an idea for the distribution of property types within that transaction flow.
So what we’ve sourced a $14.9 billion year-to-date that I referred to earlier about 60% of that is retail properties.
And the next largest chunk of that is distribution and industrial at about 25%.
So that’s how it shapes out.
But it does have inflow depending on what the opportunities are at any specific point during the year.
But that will give you a feel for what it looked like year-to-date herein 2012.
Okay.
Thanks.
And Tom as part of that strategic review that you guys did a couple years ago where you decided that you wanted to move up the credit curve part of that if I recall was wanting to hedge yourselves against inflation and trying to put in contractual rent bumps or CPI bumps into the leases and increase the percentage of leases that you had with those bumps.
Now with ARCT I’m assuming most of those don’t have any bumps or CPI protection.
And I’m just wondering how you thought about the trade-off there for going up the credit curve yet sort of taking a step back in terms of inflation protecting the portfolio.
Yeah.
A lot of the leases do have bumps but that’s one of the most difficult things over the last few years has really been trying to building full CPI into the leases and we’ve gotten up and I can’t remember the exact number but it’s over 20%.
Yeah it over 20% Paul says now that we’ve been able to do that but it is really a slog.
We’ve had 30 years here of declining interest rates and relatively tame inflation and across industries in the U.S.
the sellers and particularly in retail have gotten very used to not having big CPI components.
So that continues to be a battle on that situation.
Relative to going up the credit curve the decision to go up the credit curve really was two-fold.
One was thinking that retail maybe a little tougher in the future particularly in some segments.
But mostly we’re just – I think September 30 was the 31 anniversary of the 10-year getting up over 14% and starting its decline that’s gone on ever since then where we’re now down to 1.88.
I think I looked this morning.
And if you look at the average rate on a 10-year over the last 31 years it’s been about 6%.
So it was really going back completely underwriting our whole portfolio and acknowledging that we are all kind of running downhill with less than investment grade tenants during that period.
And that as we look to going forward and the possibility of interest rates being higher wanting to disengage from a few tenants that we think would be vulnerable in a raising interest rate environment and move up the curve to protect against that.
And everybody’s got their opinion of what the chances are of having much higher interest rates but we also think even if there was prolonged lower interest rates due to economic weakness it’s likely to be tough on the more levered people’s business and likely that we would eventually see some credit spreads gapping out.
So either way we think it’s really a good idea to move up the curve.
And that was the primary reason behind that one.
And going forward again we’re at 20% now closing ARCT we’d be at about 34% 35% and be very happy to wake up in four five years and have that number 60% 70% 80% of the portfolio.
Okay.
So the acquisition is actually going to increase the percentage of the portfolio that has sort of the CPI bumps? It now it’s about the same.
Well his comment going 20 to 35 he was referring to the investment grade portion.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Investment grade not the part with bumps.
I think it’ll keep us right about 20 maybe a little less little more.
Okay.
And then a quick question for you Paul.
As we’re just looking at our models and thinking about the proceeds to pay for acquisitions in the ARCT transaction would you expect say a year from now leverage to be pretty similar to where it was a quarter ago or how are you thinking about leverage and what’s your target over the next year?  Yeah.
As you know our philosophy is still go up first if you will two-third is common the remainder really the debt and preferred side in the capital structure.
With this recent bond offering as we speak and sit here today our leverage I’d say is a little higher than what we’d like is kind of a longer term run rate 30% debt 7% preferred.
We prefer that to be 5% to 10% lower in terms of that portion.
So we will look to the common equity markets first as a form of financing over the next 12 to 15 months in terms of the balance sheet.
The other thing is I think it was 1994 right when we went public that we said that we wouldn’t want to be over 35% debt on the balance sheet and we’ve never gotten there.
And we had a discussion at our board meeting in August just saying that remains even though we’re – gosh 20 time the size than we were then.
But that we think is in an appropriate balance sheet strategy.
And in the ‘20s we don’t mind at all either.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America Merrill Lynch Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I was wondering is there also a push for more investment grade tenants within the retail space? There is.
As a matter of fact within retail we also have a higher percentage going up.
If you look in the top 15 in the press release I think it’s Family Dollar crept in there and we have had some transaction recently with several other investment grade tenants in that space.
So we’d like to go up the curve where ever we can both inside and outside.
And so that’s definitely the case.
And John if we have any other numbers there do you for the year within?  I don’t think we parsed it within retail Craig.
But a good part of the retail this year has been investment grade.
Okay.
Do you have to pay a lower cap rate for those investment grades or is that like a agnostic view? You generally do have to pay a lower cap rate.
And almost like in the bond markets today credit spreads are fairly flat.
And they do continue to be fairly flat in the net lease business but it is lower.
As John mentioned for investment grade you’re kind of in the 6% to 7% cap rate for less investment grade 7% to 8%.
But given cost to capital when you look today that over 60% of what we bought this year so far and what we’re targeting is investment grade.
But we’re getting an average cap rate of about 7.25%.
It’s really one of those funny times when you can go up the curve and still have great spreads.
Recall about 16 17 years ago Bank of New York very nicely gave me two – couple of days with their head of credit for Bank of New York just to talk to him about credit and underwriting and all the rest of it.
And I remember sitting down and he said what are you trying to do? And I said well I want to increase our volume of acquisitions substantially I’d like to go up the credit curve and I’d like to have higher spreads between our cost to capital and our interest rate.
And he laughed he said so does every banker in the world who’s lending but it’s almost impossible to do.
And I look at this year and last year given Fed monetary policy and that’s exactly what happened at $1 billion plus an acquisition in each year.
And going up the curve substantially and the spreads between cost of capital and cap rate as John went through being some of the highest we’ve had maybe 70 basis points over the average for 17 18 years we’ve been public.
Craig slightly over 50% of the retail we purchased this year to date has been with retail tenants that have investments grade credit ratings.
Okay.
I guess we’re living in an impossible time but it sounds good.
Thanks a lot.
Yeah I’m not sure what it does for the economy in the world long-term but in the short-term in the net lease business it’s been fairly attractive for us.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Please go head.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Hey Todd.
Hey Todd.
Just a question on the capital structure and I know the preference has always been for the corporate unsecured.
And I think you stated that the mortgages that are coming on the balance sheet with some of these acquisitions are you hope to pay those down as soon as possible.
But I’m wondering with the move into non-retail and investment grade and with some of the property values maybe being higher now that you’re acquiring than maybe the average has been in the past and also with the investment grade tenants paying the rents if your views changed at all and whether or not there is a place for mortgages in the capital structure going forward or whether you’d like to stick with 100% corporate unsecured?  Sure.
Good question.
Now we continue to absolutely pursue the flexibility of dealing in the unsecured markets with the debt and keeping the balance sheet in line.
And the only mortgages that we have had to date are those where we bought a portfolio and it was really uneconomic in the short term to payoff the mortgage that anything we could payoff we will.
We’ve never put a mortgage on a property and we don’t intend to going forward it’ll strictly be when we buy a portfolio.
And then we’ll soon as – it’s economic to do so we would pay it off and we’re very very much committed now as have been to the unsecured market and that being how we finance the company along with perpetual preferred and common equity.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks you.
And our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi good afternoon guys.
You’ve mentioned before Tom that you expect about $50 million of acquisitions per quarter which of course is what I had modeled for the next four quarters going forward.
But given that it seems to me that there is something fundamentally changing out there that is bringing more products to market.
And I’m curious if you have thoughts I mean is that more retailers let’s say looking to monetize real estate is that debt coming due or what is bringing all this stuff to market? This seems to be bigger than usual.
Is that correct?  It is.
And I think as things usually are we’re just looking for one reason but it’s a confluence of forces.
I think the downturn in the economy a few years ago and the credit squeeze scares the heck out of a lot of CFOs.
And they started looking at their companies on looking for more non-traditional access to capital and identified real estate as being one source for that.
And so I think that’s part of it.
Second as you see more sale leaseback out there other people observe it and act towards it.
And then I think there is also feeling that right now with interest rates low that this is a way to obviously lock in permanent permanent capital over very long period of time.
And using the real estate while still maintaining the ownership and the flexibility and that’s – those are all coming together.
And then the last part from me and you can add on if you want to John is our size really and the size of the net lease business is growing and it’s becoming more visible.
And it’s allowed us to go into places we haven’t before particularly going up the credit curve into the Fortune 500 and that and in by itself through our efforts has caused us to see more product.
Okay good.
Thank you yeah that makes sense.
Then on the dollar stores on the addition of the dollar stores category this quarter is there a story behind that first of all? And I noticed that Family Dollars I think 2.5% in the total size of the space is about 3%.
So I’m guessing there is obviously more beyond Family Dollar in there but anyway on the dollar stores?  Right.
As part of the strategic review one of the things we did is obviously take a look at the consumer and really divided up to upper income middle income lower income.
And then divided further between their discretionary and non-discretionary spending to try and pick.
What retailers we wanted to be with and we think in kind of the middle income the lower income it’s a good idea if you could be with non-discretionary spending.
And even within that that’s really a stressed consumer which I think leads retailers in that space today they need to have a really significant value proposition for the consumer.
And I think our movement into dollar stores is a reflection of exactly that we did target the industry.
We think we will have more and you’ll see that grow over the next few quarters.
By the way it’s the same thing with the Warehouse club stores that you also see has come in there.
And both have that value proposition and that’s why we upped our investment there.
If you look at the wholesale clubs I think in this quarter it was around 2.8%.
That’s BJ’s and there’s going to be another one coming in there.
And then on the dollar stores worth three and that’s Family Dollar and Dollar General both has been added to the portfolio both of those investment grade tenants.
And we expect – we’d like our allocations to grow up if we can find additional opportunities.
Okay.
So you’re looking beyond Family Dollar and Dollar General as possibilities are really those two are the targets? Well once again we want to go up to credit curves in both our investment grades.
So they’re very attractive to us.
Yeah.
I got you.
Very good.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Tom Lesnick with Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys good afternoon.
Yeah.
Just a quick question.
You mentioned that G&amp;A expense would be about $36 million this year.
How should we be thinking about G&amp;A expense going forward presuming the ARCT deal goes through? Our estimate for next year I can give you a number.
It’s about $42.5 million kind of what we see in our model right now.
That’s some preliminary work on the budget for next year and that sort of thing.
That does assume our ARCT closes end of this years.
And that would represent about 6% of our total revenues for next year kind of again on a preliminary budget basis.
So from overall ratio we see G&amp;A going down significantly as a percentage of total revenues because as we’ve mentioned we don’t see any material increase in G&amp;A at all relative to the ARCT acquisition.
Alright great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer portion of Realty Income’s earnings conference call.
I will now turn the call over to Tom Lewis for concluding remarks.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you everybody.
It’s – with an hour on the call a little longer than we normally do and we appreciate your patience.
We look forward to getting a final and effective perspective in the near future in getting that out.
We will have additional discussions on the ARCT transaction.
And we’ll now focus on making the fourth another successful quarter and thank you very much for your attention.
Thank you operator.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference for today.
If you would like to like to listen to a replay of today’s call please dial 303-590-3030 or the toll-free number of 1800-406-7325 and enter the access code of 4569429.
Thank you again for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
During today's presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is also being recorded today Thursday February 14 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tom Lewis Chief Executive Officer of Realty Income.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Katya and good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to our conference call and as Katya mentioned we will go over the fourth quarter and our results for 2012 and a bit about what's happened since year-end.
In the room with me today is Gary Malino our President and Chief Operating Officer Paul Meurer our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer John Case our Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer and Tere Miller our Vice President of Corporate Communications.
As I am obligated to do I will say that during this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law and the company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in the forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater detail on the company's Form 10-K the factors that may cause such differences.
As is our custom Paul perhaps you can begin with overview of the numbers.
Thank you Tom.
So as usual I will walk through our financial statements briefly and provide some highlights of our financial results for the quarter and where appropriate for the year as a whole starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 16% for the quarter and for the year.
Our revenue for the quarter was approximately $130 million or about $520 million annualized run rate at year-end.
This increase reflects positive same-store rent but more significantly it reflects our growth from new acquisitions over the past year.
Pro forma for the ARCT acquisition completed in January our current annualized total revenues as of 12/31 are now $712 million.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased by about $8.6 million in the comparative quarterly period as depreciation expense obviously has increased as our property portfolio continues to grow.
Interest expense increased in the quarter by about $6.1 million and this was due to the $800 million of bonds that were issued in October as well as some credit facility borrowings during the quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remain strong with interest coverage at 3.6 times and fixed charge coverage at 2.7 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the fourth quarter were approximately $10 million and $38 million for the year.
Our G&amp;A expense increased this past year as our acquisition activity increased also because we added new personnel and our proxy process last spring was more expensive than usual.
We ended up expensing $2.4 million of acquisition due diligence costs during the year.
Our employee base grew from 83 employees a year ago to 97 employees today.
However our total G&amp;A was the still less than 8% of our total revenues.
Property expenses were just under $1.7 million for the quarter and $7.3 million for the year.
These expenses historically have been primarily our carry cost associated with properties available for lease.
However our 2013 property expense estimate is higher at about $12.5 million as we have recently purchased more double net properties double net properties whereby we are responsible for some of the property maintenance cost.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the company.
They were only $215 000 for the quarter and $1.4 million for the year.
ARCT merger-related costs obviously this line items refers to the cost associated with the ARCT acquisition.
During the fourth quarter we expensed approximately $2.4 million of such costs and for all of 2012 we expensed just under $7.9 million.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $3.6 million.
This income is associated with our property sales activity.
We sold 14 properties during the quarter for $16.3 million and a reminder that we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or in our AFFO.
Preferred stock cash dividends totaled approximately $10.5 million for the quarter and it increased compared to last year reflects our issuance of the preferred F stock earlier this year.
Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed refers again to the $3.7 million non-cash redemption charge in the first quarter of last year associated with the repayment of our preferred D stock with proceeds from our new preferred F offering at that time and reminder of course that the replacement of this preferred D stock in our capital structure did save us about $1 million cash annually and income available to common stockholders was about $28.5 million for the quarter.
Reminder that our normalized FFO noted here simply adds back the ARCT merger-related costs to FFO.
We believe normalized FFO is a more appropriate portrayal of our operating performance and it is consistent with our public FFO earnings estimates and first call FFO estimates that analysts have published on us.
Normalized FFO per share was $0.56 for the quarter a 9.8% increase versus a year ago and $2.02 for the year a 2% increase versus last year.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividends was $0.55 per share for the quarter a 5.8% increase versus a year ago and $2.06 for the year and 2.5% increase versus last year.
And also you will note that in our press release we did affirm our same earnings estimates for 2013 which were previously disclosed last month when we were finalizing the ARCT transaction.
As you know we also have increased our cash monthly dividend significantly over the past year.
In addition to a regular quarterly increases we did a $0.06 annualized increase last August and this month we have a have a $0.35 annualized dividend increase.
We have increased the dividend 61 consecutive quarters and 70 times overall since we went public over 18 years ago.
Our current monthly dividend is now just over $0.18 per share which equates to a current annualized amount of just over $2.17 per share.
Our estimated AFFO dividend payout ratio for 2013 is about 91%.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we believe we have continued to maintain a conservative and safe capital structure.
In October as you know we raised $800 million of new capital with our issuance of $350 million of 2% unsecured fixed rate notes due in 2018 and $450 million of 3.25% unsecured fixed rate notes due in 2022.
At year-end our $1 billion acquisition credit facility had a balance of only $158 million.
However we did utilize our credit facility for the cash portion of our ARCT acquisition in January which then increased our credit facility balance to about $700 million.
Our credit facility does have a $500 million accordion expansion feature above the $1 billion amount.
Our current total debt to total market capitalization is 32% and our preferred stock outstanding only 5% of our capital structure.
Our only bond maturity over the next two-plus years is $100 million bond maturity in March of this year.
We do plan to raise the new capital during the early part of this year.
Use of proceeds will be to repay our credit facility borrowing and thus free the facility up for further acquisition financing this year.
So in summary we think our overall balance sheet remains healthy.
We continue to enjoy excellent access to the public capital markets.
Let me turn the call now back over to Tom who will give you a little bit more background on these results.
Thanks Paul.
As is our custom I will just kind of run through the different segments of business and let me start with the portfolio.
Once again the portfolio continued to generate very consistent cash flow in the fourth quarter.
Generally the tenants are doing very well.
No issues that rose with any of the tenants during the fourth quarter and we look for that to be the case here in the first quarter.
Also there is nothing out there that we are looking at.
On our calls normally what I will do is talk about some of the metrics relative to the portfolio and how and why quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and as we have added in this release the supplemental disclosure on the closing of ARCT post year-end I will also mention on a pro forma basis what that does to some of those metrics and give everybody a flavor of how we sit today and then obviously all those numbers will be integrated into our first quarter results little later in to the year.
At the end of the quarter our largest 15 tenants accounted for about 47.1% of our revenue.
That’s down 270 basis points from the same period of year ago and now on a pro forma basis post ARCT the top 15 have drop from 47.1% to 42.1% or another 500 basis points.
So obviously the acquisition efforts relative to both normal acquisitions and ARCT has had a significant impact in reducing concentrations in the portfolio.
That obviously is included in our largest 15 tenants.
Cash flow coverages on the retail properties that we have in our top 15 tenants continue to be very strong at about 2.5 time for EBITDAR to rent coverage.
So the portfolio continues to operate well there.
From an occupancy standpoint we ended the fourth quarter with 97.2% occupancy and 84 properties available for lease out of the 3 013 we own.
That occupancy is up 20 basis points from the third quarter and up 50 basis points from the year ago.
On a pro forma basis post ARCT that increases another 40 basis points to about 97.7% occupancy as we sit here today.
Back on the year-end before ARCT as I mentioned the last few quarters there's three ways to calculate occupancy.
The one I just used which is on vacant buildings versus occupied buildings calculation.
That’s 97.2.
If you add it on vacant square footage versus occupied it would be at 98.2%.
Then the third way uses previous rent on vacant properties against total rent including the previous rents and that would be a 98.5%.
So all three are very healthy and all three would be higher under the ARCT calculations.
Same-store rents our core portfolio increased 0.4% during the fourth quarter and 0.1% year-to-date.
As most of you recall same-store rents have been off a little bit the first three quarters primarily as a function of a couple of tenants and those are moving out of the numbers.
So it went positive in the fourth quarter and volume went up to make it positive for the year overall.
Looking forward we think same-store rent growth should accelerate and move to a more normalized level in the 1% 1.5% plus range in each quarter in 2013 and we think that will start in the first quarter.
With all these acquisitions obviously the diversification of the portfolio continues to widen substantially.
At the end of the year we are at 3 013 properties.
That is up 175 properties from last quarter.
Then with 44 different industries now represented in the portfolio with 150 tenants in 49 states.
On a pro forma basis adding in ARCT it is 3 528.
That is up another 515 properties in 48 industries 202 tenants in 49 states.
Industry exposures are well diversified and with the closing of the transaction specific exposures in certain industries have declined quite a bit which I think is really meaningful when looking at the portfolio I would note that in some of our larger segments convenient stores as an example is our largest industry at 1 231.
That was 14.9% of revenue down 140 basis points from last quarter and 230 basis points year-over-year.
Then pro forma that drops another 330 basis points.
So down to around 11.6% of rent.
So substantial reductions.
Restaurants and here I will just combine both casual dining and quick service are now at 12.4%.
That is down 80 basis points in the fourth quarter and 400 basis points for the year and now pro forma drops another 220 basis points to only 10.2% of rent.
And importantly and I have talked about this before for what we want to take the portfolio that the gets the casual dining portion on a pro forma basis down to only 5.6% versus 15% of the portfolio a few years ago.
That also take figures of [12-31-7] and that's down 80 basis points and then pro forma it drops to process 66 so we continue to decrease concentration in some of these larger segments which is very good progress there.
We've also increased the percentage of revenue that is generated from several of the industries on a pro forma basis that we are targeting.
Transportation services moves up to about 5.7% almost all of that comes from our investments in FedEx.
Drug stores increases to 6.6% mostly through additions of additional investment with both Walgreens and CVS and then dollar stores now increases to about 5.6% of rent and those investment are primarily with Family Dollar and Dollar General.
And the majority of where we added we believe in those industries are with investment-grade tenants and under long-term leases.
The largest industries on a pro forma basis then will be the C stores 116.
That's the only industry over 10% now drug stores at 66% theaters at 64% transportation services at 57% and then the dollar stores and casual dining both at 5.6% of revenue and then all other industries come in below 5% and for those of you too have been with us for a while looking back three four years that's pretty meaningful reduction.
If we look at it from an individual tenant standpoint the recent acquisitions ARCT make a lot of changes there also.
The largest tenant now is FedEx at 5.5% of rent and L.A.
Fitness who we like a lot at 39% Family Dollar and AMC both 3.5 Diageo which are wine operations and BJ's posted 3% and then takes everybody below 3% so a reduction there too.
I mentioned our largest 15 tenants are 42.1% of rent pro forma and when you get to the 15th largest tenant we are now down to about only 1.6% of revenue so very well diversified.
Also that's the case from a geographic diversification standpoint.
Our average remaining lease length on the portfolio is healthy at about 11.2 years that's up a bit.
Let me kind of circling back to the top 15 tenants for a minute and take a look at that group post the those the ARCT acquisition in 2008 and 2009 as most of you know and we've talked about on a lot of our calls we went through a strategic evolution where we decided to make some adjustments on a go forward basis in the portfolio and really just started implementing that in 2010 and kind of the themes we are looking at is targeting certain retail industries relative to the consumer base they serve and really are looking at kind of is it upper income middle income or low income consumers and then trying to differentiate between those retailers that sell discretionary goods and services versus those that non-discretionary and trying to focus mostly towards retailers to focus on non-discretionary items.
Secondarily when with middle and lower income consumers to make sure that the retailers we are getting really have a deep value proposition and then thirdly trying to stay with a long-term theme of convenience and necessity.
Then as you can see pretty clearly right now in the makeup of the top-15 on a pro forma basis Family Dollar Dollar General BJ'S Walgreens and CVS are all now in the 15 so that matches with those themes.
We also decided to pursue acquisitions outside of retail.
That's now little over 22% of our revenue and the FedEx being largest one and virtually all of those leases and properties are long-term leases to very large tenants with investment-grade ratings.
And as a general theme also both for retail and outside moving the portfolio up the credit curve and working more and more with investment-grade tenants.
And if you look at the five of the top-15 tenants were now rated investment-grade versus three years ago and was about 34% of our overall revenue on a pro forma basis now coming from investment-grade.
If you include leases with the subsidiaries of investment-grade tenants that's about 37% so we really think doing that along with portfolio sales if those initiatives be through added diversification by industry and tenant or geography or whether its tenant credit or the industries we are targeting and investing in we believe the quality the cash flow generated by the portfolios have been significantly enhanced over the last three years.
We will continue to pursue those initiatives.
I am very pleased so far.
Let us move on then to first the property dispositions that continues to grow a bit.
During 2011 we sold 26 properties for $24 million.
In 2012 we sold 44 for $50 million.
For 2013 we would anticipate to be at least $100 million and we think we will get more than half of that done in the first half of the year.
So we may be able to exceed that number going forward and that will be a thing that we just slowly move ahead.
The focus there is really trying to improve the credit quality of the portfolio and decrease our exposures in certain industries.
To date that’s been primarily in restaurants primarily casual dining which as I mentioned continues to decline as a segment in the portfolio.
Then we also have targeted convenient stores for a number of sales.
Then any properties with tenants that tend to be smaller and we think are more exposed to a downturn in the economy.
The focus there is really trying to reduce exposure to this discretionary purchases from (inaudible) income consumers and if you watch them today there is a lot of these people in this country that are living on paycheck-to-paycheck and without savings and any movement or economic event really has an impact on them on a current basis relative to their expenditures.
So we are trying to move away from that area and either have a deep value proposition or as I said stick with basics.
Lets move on to property acquisitions.
2012 as we noted was a record year for acquisitions.
That’s before we get to the ARCT transaction.
We continue to be very active moving into 2013.
Let me turn it over to John Case who is our Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer and he will walk you through the year and where we see things going.
John? So the fourth quarter was a very active quarter for us for acquisitions.
As you know we acquired 189 properties investing approximately $447 million in acquisitions.
This was third most acquisitive quarter in our company's history finishing only behind the fourth quarter of 2006 and the third quarter of last year.
The average cap rate of the fourth quarter acquisitions was 7.4% at an average lease term of 15 years.
Credit profiles of the tenants we added was quite attractive.
63% of the acquisitions are leased to tenants with investment-grade ratings.
These properties were leased to 13 tenants in 10 separate industries.
Five of the 13 tenants are new tenant and dollar stores and health and fitness were the largest industries represented.
These properties were geographically diversified located in 27 states and 80% of the fourth quarter acquisitions were comprised of our traditional retail assets.
So for the full year 2012 that brought us to $1 6 billion in acquisitions activity comprised of 423 properties.
This is the most we have ever completed in any calendar year and it surpassed our previous record in 2011 of $1.02 billion.
The full year acquisitions were done at an average cap rate of 7.22% with a weighted average lease term of just over 14.5 years.
We continue to improve our tenant credit profile as Tom has alluded to last year 64% of the acquisitions were leased to tenants with investment-grade ratings.
They were leased to 29 tenants in 23 separate industries.
Dollar stores wholesale clubs and fitness were the largest industries represented in last year's acquisitions.
We were able to 16 new tenants in four new industries.
The properties were located in 37 states and 78% of the acquisitions were comprised of our traditional retail assets.
About 80% of our acquisitions activity last year was comprised of larger portfolio transactions.
These are transactions that are $75 million or greater.
So those larger transactions are really what drive our volume from year-to-year as you know.
Let me spend a few minutes talking about the acquisitions market today.
It continues to be as active as we have ever seen it.
In 2012 we sourced $17 billion in acquisition opportunities.
Now this outsourcing number is everything that comes in our door in terms of acquisitions' opportunities that meet some of our investment parameters so we analyze this and we are on a fair amount of amount of it and eventually we ended up closing the $1.1 6 billion.
The $17 billion was also a record year for acquisitions sourcing and transaction flow for us surpassing 2011 when we sourced $13 billion in acquisition opportunities.
Of the properties we sourced last year about 55% were leased to investment-grade tenants.
Today the market continues to be competitive.
Looking forward we continue to see an active pipeline of opportunities.
There are a lot of sellers in the market that are attracted by the attractive pricing and significant transaction volumes we are seeing in the net lease sector today.
We're engaged in numerous discussions and we are currently projecting $550 million acquisitions at an initial yield of 7.25% for 2013 but the ultimate amount now we complete will be determined by our success on the larger portfolio of transactions as we've discussed before.
Let me spend a moment on pricing.
Cap rates are holding steady to where they were in late 2012.
Investment-grade properties ranged from a low 6% to low 7% range non-investment grade properties range in the low 7% to the low 8% cap rate range.
Cap rates have continued to decline over the last few years.
Of course year they averaged 7.2%.
In 2011 they averaged 7.8% and in 2010 7.9%.
This is a function of declining yield and interest rate environment and also more importantly are working up the credit curve and doing substantially more acquisitions with investment-grade tenants.
Our investment spreads and margins however continue to increase and are at historical highs.
Let me spend a moment this.
Our 2012 average cap rate of 7.22% represents the 190-basis point spread to our nominal cost of equity.
And again that's our FFO yield adjusted for the cost of raising the equity.
That 190 basis points compares favorably to our average spread of 114 basis points over the previous 19 years of our company since right our IPO and with the acquired assets primarily leased to non-investment-grade tenants.
In 2011 our spreads to our nominal cost of equity was 170 basis points with 40% of our acquisitions were with investment-grade tenants so we improved our spreads by 20 basis points year-over-year while we increased our percentage of acquisition leased to investment-grade tenants from 40% in 2011 to 64% in 2012.
This was a very attractive outcome for us.
Now as you know we also track our cap rates relative to 10-year treasury yields.
Since our IPO in 1994 our cap rates have averaged about 475 basis points over the corresponding 10-year treasury yields.
In 2012 our cap rates averaged 545 basis points over the average 10-year treasury yield with 64% of our acquisitions leased to investment-grade tenants.
In 2011 our cap rates averaged 505 basis points over the 10-year treasury yield with 40% of our acquisitions again leased to investment-grade tenants.
So we've been able to improve our investment spreads based both on our nominal cost of equity and 10-year treasury yields while continuing to move up the credit curve in 2012.
Tom? Thanks John.
We are obviously very pleased with acquisitions closed for the year and where spreads are given increasing credit as John said and remain optimistic about additional acquisitions this year and what is pretty robust flow of opportunities to look at right now.
I would like to note the timing of the acquisitions that came in for 2012.
It's kind of interesting to examine.
In the first quarter of last year we acquired a grand total of two properties for $10.7 million.
In the second quarter we acquired 145 properties for $210.8 million.
Third quarter acquired 87 properties for $496 million.
Then in the fourth quarter acquired 189 properties for $446.5 million.
Couple of thoughts on that.
Our acquisitions and we have talked about this over the years but for anybody new it tends to be lumpy.
That was the case in 2012 and we think that will continue to be the case quarter-over-quarter.
I wouldn’t look at that as a trendline.
They tend to bounce around during the year.
It is also ultimately the volume as John said the function of how many larger transaction we closed or don’t close.
So far this year we think $550 million we are using for planning purposes.
It is the most we want to model this early in the year.
Even though we think at this point the first half of 2013 will be stronger than the first half of 2012 but we will adjust that as the year goes on but that’s what our guidance is based on.
Again the big transactions are really going to drive that.
The other ongoing observation is that acquisitions tend to accelerate late in each quarter and certainly later in the year.
That was again the case in 2012 with $942 million of the $1.16 billion coming in the second half of the year.
That means a couple of things.
The first is the majority of the revenue and FFO from 2012 acquisitions will manifest itself here in 2013.
That’s pretty typical.
It also means we bought and closed on 276 properties for $942 million in really the last five months of the year and that was at the same time that we were working on preparing for the closing of the ARCT transaction with another 500 plus properties.
I would really like to take a second and give credit to our staff particularly acquisitions and legal and accounting teams for their efforts over the last few months of the year when the productivity to say the least was really outstanding and the hours put in were long.
We have talked a couple of times over the last few years about working on our systems and adding staff to handle additional growth which we have been doing for a couple of years.
I will tell you doing that really paid off and allowed us to process that additional volume and move to efficiently integrate it into our systems and portfolio.
I would note though that we will need to do that again to continue to grow at a substantial rate.
Gary Malino our President Chief Operating Officer and I will spend a fair amount of our time this year focused on that again on people and systems.
Let me talk specifically for a moment about the ARCT integration process.
That’s going very smoothly as a great deal of the work was done during the solicitation process on the transaction.
But it is a huge volume of work.
The tough stuff that was done really as we went along and are mostly done are the loan assumptions the entity consolidations lease reviews property reviews title and accounting is pretty much finished.
We are really just down to a few outliers here and there.
So I would characterize the integration overall as about 80% to 90% finished here just a couple of weeks after closing.
We were helped significantly by the fact that both companies utilize the same software platform which really helped the integration and then also as you recall in this there were no management or employee integration issues that came with the transaction.
So the majority of what is left is primarily additional data entry and submerging the files and in some remaining lease compliance work.
We think we can get almost all of it if not all done here in the first quarter.
Anyway to tie-up acquisitions we think both on a granular basis and on larger transactions it will continue to really be acquisitions but it is going to drive the revenue and play the largest role there in our AFFO and our dividends and certainly in the efforts to make ongoing change in the portfolio.
To put it in perspective relative to those changes the last 36 months or so we have acquired about $6 billion of property including ARCT.
$3.6 billion or 60% of it is in retail and most in sectors that we are targeting and we think we will continue to perform for us in what's been a pretty tepid retail environment $2.4 billion or 40% is outside of retail in the sectors with very large tenants.
We think will do fine.
Then of the $6 billion $3.8 or 63% was done with investment-grade tenants and a good measure of the rest of the acquisitions all were also up the credit curve from where the portfolio stood if you go back four or five years.
So good progress on that plan.
The other side of that is also funding these transactions.
In funding them last three years we've executed four equity offerings that generated about $1 billion in proceeds.
And then in the ARCT transaction did a direct issuance of about $2 billion of equity so it was about $3 billion of issuance.
We did as you recall last year about little over $400 million in perpetual preferred about $1.12 billion in investment-grade rated bonds and notes that we put out and assume $710 million in mortgages most of which we plan to pay off in the next few years and then generated about $100 million property sales so about $5.3 billion of capital on that $6 billion in acquisitions.
Relative to the balance sheet and access to capital we are in pretty good shape as Paul mentioned.
We do have dry powder to close acquisitions.
The $1 billion credit facility with $500 million accordion is very helpful in that but obviously and as Paul alluded to given the closing of ARCRT and the balance on the line we'll look to access additional capital.
Equity is attractive here as is debt preferred and they are all available and the rates are good.
And for those of us who has followed us a while I think will want to keep the balance sheet conservative and so the mix of capital should remain pretty similar relative to the debt equity and preferred to where we've been for a number of years now.
2012 good year as I mentioned.
A lot of activity that will accrue to our benefit this year.
Paul mentioned we are keeping with the FFO guidance at of $2.32 million $2.38 million.
That's 14.9% to 17.8% growth and AFFO of $2.33 million to $2.39 million which is 13.1% to 16% growth.
Last comment will be on dividends.
Obviously the last six eight months have been active with substantial increases in the dividend approaching around $0.42 a share and we remain optimistic that our activities will support continued dividend increases during 2013 and I appreciate everybody's patience but I think we got the most of it.
And Katya we will now open it up to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Emmanuel Korchman.
Please come ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Just given John's commentary earlier on the call about an attractive environment for sellers and pricing staying flat to let's call it a little bit richer than it's been over the last couple of years.
Why aren't you selling more into it? I mean 100 million of dispositions especially as you try to ramp up your investment-grade portion of the portfolio seems like it's a low number.
Well I noted it is accelerating but you are right and we would like to do more but one of the things that John mentioned was about 80% of the acquisitions are in large transactions and about 100% of the sales are in one-off transactions and rather granular.
And if you look at what we have been trying to sell with the C stores and also casual dining restaurants those are fairly small number so it is a fairly labor-intensive operation and we also probably would have had a higher volume this year but we did have a big block of properties probably another $50 million $60 million that we just started to put on the market and then some M&amp;A activity with the tenant started and that turns out we are getting an upgrade in some of the credit and may not want to sell it.
So I agree.
We would like to accelerate it.
It is a good market to do into and if we can go well past the $100 million we would like to do it.
Got you and then I think you touched on this earlier.
I might have missed it.
the 0.1% same-store growth.
Can you first of all clarify if that's GAAP or cash and then I think you said that that would accelerate as some tenants get pulled out of the mix.
Maybe if you could just repeat that for me? Sure.
Yes.
It was 0.1% for the year overall and 0.4%.
That is cash not GAAP and normally will run from 1 to 1.5 and if you recall at the start last year we had to tenant issues Friendly's and Buffets where we did have some rent reductions and during the year we disclosed both what it would be without and with it for the year that's how you get to that 0.1% numbers but a lot of that burned off the fourth quarter.
Absent that I think same-store rent growth this year would have been 1.3% to 1.5% somewhere in there.
And so with that burning off and the way the leases were structured no tenant issues.
We really anticipate the first-quarter will bounce back closer to 1.5% and then during the year run between 1% to 1.5% same-store rent growth.
Perfect.
My last question I think you mentioned something about double net properties.
Maybe you could help me figure out what that would be? Sure it is a large portfolio.
So there is a lot of everything and for the most part it is tripled net lease but in some of these properties that we buy the lease structure particularly contained from a developer maybe different and maybe taxes maintenance insurance but we may have roof responsibilities then it’s a new roof down the line.
There could be some other things that are in there.
So when it's not triple we just call it double but it is probably more like two and three quarters or two and a half.
Anybody else want to add in to that? That’s right.
Most of it is on little bit of property maintenance responsibilities.
But it typically wouldn’t be anything outside of that.
So you wouldn’t be responsible for taxes or anything more major than… That can happen all the time but that’s primarily not the case with most of non-full triple net stuff that we own.
It's primarily just responsibilities with regard to roofing and parking on 90% of those.
Right There a minority of the properties that we think it is important to bring it up that if you see a little bit of property expenses that’s where the words coming from.
But don’t see a huge acceleration.
But otherwise they are similar to the rest of your portfolio in being single tenant large (inaudible).
Yes and we have had these issues over the years on an ongoing basis.
It is just a little larger now.
So we brought it up.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Tom and John as you were mentioning that increasingly more and more of your regular acquisitions are on investment-grade properties.
I am wondering why a lot of those tenants are increasingly looking at net lease financing especially given that they should have other credit availabilities? That should be there.
It used to be I guess the trade-off for a lot of the tenants was the high-yield market or nothing or net lease financing but I am wondering why more and more of those are looking at net lease financing given the absolutely high coupons that seems to be out there as opposed to other sources of financing? Can you maybe walk us through that a little bit? Yes there's always been I think in retail which is a smaller preponderance of it.
If somebody is really trying to rollout over time using net lease financing relative to their immediate construction.
So that’s has been around and you have particularly seen it in the drugstore segment.
So it's become kind of normal and then crept around more in retail.
Sometimes it's with people on the street are really putting some pressure on companies to look at their balance sheet and try and unlock some value.
As you know there is a lot of those discussions today going on around the country on the Opco/propco side and when you get those discussions going even if people don’t do it then they start looking at what's on the balance sheet and start running the numbers relative to their return on investment and other areas.
I think it also started just happening a little bit going back to 2008 2009 where even some very strong credit started looking at some issues relative to financial flexibility and coming out of that started thinking about real estate a little bit.
Traditionally it was less than investment-grade.
It was really early 2000 2001 we started working a lot with private equity and bringing that up.
But its a very common discussion now on the street relative to looking at the real estate and using it.
So if you get to the Fortune 500 and Fortune 1 000 a lot of their real estate decisions are outsourced with a group of developers and very often there is just a decision when working with the developer that they not going to keep those assets and some of them come off that way.
But I think there is just more and more talk going on about what's on the balance sheet and how you provide flexibility and use it.
So we haven’t seen it like this relative to those discussions particularly in the investment-grade for as long as I have been doing this.
Okay that’s very helpful.
Thanks.
Especially after the Diageo acquisition a couple of years ago and as you mentioned with increasingly a greater numbers of REITs out there with the Opco/propco structure.
Is that something that you guys would look at with increasingly different asset classes that are out there? Or you would that be a lot less likely to happen? It is it is very interesting.
There is an awful lot of discussion and you know we have had a few companies announce that they are either looking at it or going to do it.
Then there has been some movement in our equity and that always causes bankers and lawyers and accountants to more and more discussions and that’s kind of the phase it's at right now.
Then the question is will they get done and if they get done what will a single tenant REIT trade out and are traditional REIT investors going to accept that or is going to trade at a higher yield? If a bunch of them get going then typically the first one's probably do pretty well and then you have to see but relative to what it means to us I think from a tax standpoint for most of those to be done on a tax-free basis more than 50% of the equity has to remain with the company spinning off and that has to happen for a couple of years so it would take a bunch of those A happening and B a couple of years going by.
And then C probably valuations not meeting expectations before there would be some opportunities.
And given the size of the portfolio now there might be some places where we could invest.
If all of that happened given our size it really wouldn't hit massive concentrations.
Absent that we just think it's positive to again begin the discussions are going on in boardrooms around the country about now you can add value using the real estate and I think it will accrue to our benefit.
How much? We just don't know.
I think the single tenant concept does concern a lot of people but if that was a 2% tenant exposure for realty income I think a lot of people may just about that differently.
Perfect.
And if it is an investment grade tenant or somebody that we really like an assets or special you could also make that five and six because if you just look I mean obviously FedEx does get the real estate off balance sheet that's 5.5% so now we could take those on and I think in larger numbers as we get larger but we'd step too if they are.
Nothing in the near-term by the way.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everyone.
Two housekeeping questions.
First apologies if I missed this in your earlier remarks.
What was the acquisition expense in 4Q aside from ARCT cost? $2.4 million for the year and I just don't have it on my fingertips on what it was in the fourth quarter.
I'll follow-up offline.
Then secondly what was the difference between the impairment amounts on the income statement versus the FFO calculation? Where you looking? The first was provisions for impairment on the income statement let me put my spectacles on 28.04 and then add back in the FFO calculation was 44.72 and I am just wondering what that difference represents.
I recognize that's a smaller number.
Right.
I am trying to find where you are looking at in the add back Paula those are two we'll go figure out.
That's fine.
No problem.
And then just sort of a bigger picture just to sort of stay on the theme of the acquisition environment Tom I appreciated your color in your prepared remarks on the lines of trade diversification.
And aside from your comments about continuing to want to gravitate away from those tenants that have a customer base that are paycheck-to-paycheck how does that diversification across the line of trades stack up relative to your sort of ideal target.
And how does that compare with the opportunity set that you are seeing currently.
Yes.
I mean the opportunity set is wide so there is a lot of things that comes across the transom that we might have done a few years ago that we are not doing and moving away from casual dining would be one.
We still like convenience store but that might be another so we could buy a lot more if we really didn't have this view in terms of where we want to take the portfolio.
One of the things that's happened that's been very fortunate is a few more of the investment-grade retailers are out in the market with opportunities where they just weren't few years ago and then also that we've widened than that so we can move outside of retail dealing with larger tenants so that's really given us the opportunity to do that.
I think if I could stop my fingers and make an instantaneous change in the portfolio is one of the questions was earlier why don't you go faster.
We would like to but part of this is matching up opportunities and growing cash flow and dividends with what may be burn rate on that selling a few things.
So right now there is plenty of opportunities out there some of which weren't a few years ago and we really really do want to migrate the portfolio particularly up the credit curve and away from casual dining.
I keep using that but I use it because obviously have the consumers in the United States are more are middle lower income and that's where like we are currently seeing with the payroll tax and if $20 or $40 goes out of their paycheck it goes out at other spending because there is not a buffer.
Great.
Thanks very much.
That's all I had.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon thanks for taking my questions guys.
Just a few more on the acquisitions on the $550 million expectation built in for 2013 does that includes an expectation of any portfolio deals within that 550 million or would they all be incremental to that? No I think it includes portfolio transactions but it's one of those where it looks like the first quarter is going to be pretty good and then you move on from there.
We are looking at some portfolio transactions but you don’t know how many come through.
So as you know in the past we started at 250 and kind of guided up as the year went by but given the last three years of $1.1 billion $1.7 billion.
The flow we sit here and look at each other look at the first quarter and say during the course of the year we ought to get there but as John mentioned 80% last year was larger transaction.
So in this I would say at least half is.
Okay and then you mentioned the increase in staff and adding people to help deal with larger flow of acquisitions.
Is that were the majority of the increase in staff is going and could you maybe compare the staff that’s responsible for evaluating these deals today versus what it was say in 2009 before you embarked on the portfolio diversification strategy? Yes we probably added a couple people down there in that and in acquisitions a couple people.
Then it just floats around the building because a lot of this was systems and just volume.
I think looking forward to this year that’s where the differential will be.
I think we may have a pretty good add this year in acquisitions once again and a pretty good add maybe five or six in the research area be it in real estate research and then maybe an executive or two with specific expertise.
Then again I think just looking at all the volume we added this year and moving towards capacity you have to add ones and twos throughout the building by department.
So I think this will be the year and it may not be exactly calendar that that will flow in and I am really thinking specifically in research and specific segments with some people we can bring in that have done a lot of work there and research and acquisitions primarily.
Okay then the $17 billion you mentioned in deals that came through your door last year.
Does that include ARCT? Yes that does include ARCT.
Okay and then with regards to the industry exposures you were talking about I guess in recent history you were comfortable in then some of those industries being near about 20% of revenues.
Is there a new target that you have in mind in terms of where you wouldn’t want to go beyond now? I know the C stores are around 12%.
Could some industry concentration go higher than that or are you still looking to lower those across the board? Well we are at about 20% as the farthest we would ever go but we don’t like 20% near as much as we did and one of the things just really watching going through the recession while we sailed through it is those exposures you did sit and worry about and as we get to the size in 44 different industries which is very fortunate that you can bring that down.
So I now look at 10% as being on the high side and it needs to be just because there is a particular opportunity that came along and its something we really like but we can keep them down around five that is just great the would be a great event.
The exception obviously is if you end up working in an industry where you have got three or four really top light Fortune 500 type credit sitting in there.
But the answer is yes the lower number is better.
Okay and then last one for me.
I think you guys had announced that you would do a dividend increase early this year regardless of whether ARCT closed and I am just wondering what thoughts are going forward in terms of evaluating the fifth dividend increase throughout the year and whether or not you expect that to continue to happen around the August time frame? Or whether those will be more fluid discussions throughout the year? With the payout ratio if you look about where guidance is up around 91 I will tell you we are comfortable given the size of the portfolio and the added diversification you referenced.
We would like to walk that back down but it is really rose been a mid to high 80s type companies.
So its not material and whether that happens over a year or two we are open to.
So I am going to first say it will be a more fluid decision.
I think the four increases or something that we would plan on.
then it is going to be really taking the pulse.
We recently use August.
It is usually by then we put a fair amount on the books and then we have some clarity relative to how the third and fourth quarters are going to look.
That gives a little ability to see what the impact of that fifth dividend is.
Not so much in 2013 but 2014.
So we are really not to be in a position to know until we get later in the year but given obviously we did the increase in August $0.06 a share and then we did $0.35.
We front loaded it a little bit of it but I wouldn’t want to take it off the table at this point.
Right okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Tom did you guys looking at Cole at all? The Cole that is sold to in the portfolio but sold to the Spirit? We look at lots of stuff and as you can imagine given the size get an opportunity.
Look we think most everything comes across the line and that be a logical thing to do but on everything that comes in John references the $17 billion.
There is a tremendous amount we've signed confidentiality agreements on and so it's our policy not to reference transactions that we didn't do and so I wouldn't want to go beyond that but I will tell you there has been a lot of activity in the space over the last year and I did it would be surprising if there were things we didn't look at.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Then do you think there are more of those kind of entities that will be coming along? I mean is that are we done or is it just coal and ARCT or they are more out there currently.
I am just wondering if they will be making their way to market.
It's interesting a lot of that is generated by the private REIT space where there's just a tremendous amount of money being raised through the financial advisor community for those type assets and traditionally if you go back had this longer life which as of late Scott shortened up because the liquidity event is something that obviously is considered favorable by those people that would put these on the client's portfolio for a number of reasons economic being some of it and then secondarily I think it also enhances the say business model of the sponsor and so I would see more coming since there's a lot being raised.
And if you look at that business where traditionally it was a lot wider relative to the property types they were dealing in a good part of businesses net lease today.
I think there is more out there and then I would reference back to just a lot of the Opco/propco-type stuff.
So it's hard to what it will be property type stuff so it's hard to know what it will be but I think there will be some larger transactions coming out there.
The good time to mention we over the years on an M&amp;A slide and you and I have talked about this about have had a lot of opportunities and things presented that could have been done and one of the real challenges is underwriting in one fell swoop big portfolio like this.
We spend a lot of time underwriting on a very granular basis and this comes along and it really puts pressure on the underwriting side of it.
And if you look at this particular transaction it was one where it was mostly investment-grade and it was a lot of the same tenants we work in in areas that we had targeted and that was one of the reasons we are do it and it was also a fairly new portfolio so the leases were long.
But with some of these as they age and they come to market then it brings up a lot of those issues that might make it a little more troublesome for us but we do want to look at all them.
Okay.
Good.
Thanks and that kind of answers a little bit the next question I have which is going back to selling of assets I mean I am curious why you guys might not do a portfolio-type sale given that I understand that there is cash flow implications but you are obviously buying a lot of things as a matter fact.
If you only about $550 million worth of stuff this year you kind of wonder you would even have to clear the line of credit so I kind of think you will do more than that.
So if you are doing more than that I mean why not a portfolio transaction if there is someone that can evaluate the portfolio and then get rid of the bottom 2% of your portfolio kid of thing? Right.
While they may be our stepchild we love our stepchild and doing it in volume presents some issues for the ongoing cash flow stream and its consistency which since will be monthly dividend company.
That's very important.
We did look at a couple of those ideas I referenced earlier about block of C stores and ended up pulling it off the market so we may do a bit more of that.
And as were buying like ARCT I have been asked are you guys going to sell part of that.
We really as you know have taken the entire portfolio and do it again and stratify it and we do have about I would say 20% of the portfolio that we would like to move up over time but some of those are also properties that have been on the books so the leases are little shorter and some of them have some other characteristics that make it a little more challenging in a bulk transactions.
So again I think if people think towards the hundred-and-over number for this year that's probably the right one.
Okay.
very good.
Thank you very much.
This concludes our question-and-answer portion of the Realty Income's conference call.
I will now turn the call over to Tom Lewis for concluding remarks.
Great.
Listen thank you everybody for little over hour of time here.
We appreciate it the busy earning season and we will look forward to seeing you at our conferences and look forward to talking to you again next quarter and thanks Paul Thanks John and thank you Katya.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we’ll be conducting a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Tom Lewis CEO of Realty Income.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tager and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our call today to discuss the first quarter operations for Realty Income.
Before I start in the room with me is Gary Malino our President and Chief Operating Officer; John Case our President and Chief Investment Officer; Paul Meurer our EVP and Chief Financial Officer; and Mike Pfeiffer our General Counsel.
As always I must read and say that during this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law and the company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater detail on the company's Form 10-K the factors that may cause such differences.
Also in the room with me today are some spring allergies so if we go radio silent for a second or you hear a loud noise I would appreciate your understanding.
Paul as we always do if you’ll start by running through the numbers for everybody.
Thank you Tom.
As usual I will comment on the financial statements provide a few highlights of the financial results for the quarter and start by just walking briefly through the income statement.
Total revenue increased 52.9% for the quarter.
Our current revenue on an annualized basis today at 3 31 is approximately $718 million.
This increase reflects some positive same-store rent of 1.5% in the portfolio but more significantly it obviously reflects our growth from new acquisitions over the past year.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased significantly to just under $70 million in the quarter.
Of course that depreciation expense increased with our portfolio growth.
Interest expense increased in the quarter to $41.5 million and this increase was primarily due to the $800 million of bond that were issued last October as well as some credit facility borrowing during the quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both improved and remain strong with interest coverage at 3.7 times and fixed charge coverage at 3.0 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the quarter were approximately $11.6 million dollars.
Our G&amp;A expenses naturally increased this past year as our acquisition activity increased and we added some new personal to manage a larger portfolio.
Our employee base has grown from 86 employees a year ago to 92 employees at quarter end.
However our total G&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues has decreased to only 6.7%.
Historically our G&amp;A had a run rate at about 7.5% to 8% of revenue.
Our current projections for G&amp;A for all of 2013 is about $45 million.
Property expenses were just $3.8 million for the quarter these expenses historically have been primarily our carry cost associated with properties available for lease.
However as we noted last quarter our 2013 property expense estimate is higher at about $15 million as we have recently purchased a few double properties where we are responsible for some of the property expenses.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the company and they were $671 000 for the quarter.
Merger related costs obviously this line items refers to the cost associated with the ARCT acquisition.
During the quarter we expensed approximately $12 million of such costs.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $39.5 million.
This income is associated with our property sales activity during the quarter.
We sold 17 properties during the quarter for $60 million with a gain on sales of $38.6 million.
An important reminder that we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or in our AFFO.
Net income attributable to non-controlling interest refers to the limited partners of the operating partnership we purchased which holds the ARCT property.
These LPs own 0.7% of the equity of the OP.
All of the assets and operations of the OP are 100% consolidated into realty income.
Preferred stock cash dividend totaled approximately $10.5 million for the quarter and net income available to common stock holders was about $61.3 million for the quarter.
Reminder that our normalized FFOs simply add back the ARCT merger related costs to FFO.
We believe normalized FFO is a more appropriate portrayal of our operating performance and it's consistent with our public FFO earnings estimates and our first call FFO estimates that analysts have published on us.
Normalized funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.51 for the quarter a 32.6% increase versus a year ago.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash that we have available for distribution as dividends was $0.60 per share for the quarter a 20% increase versus a year ago.
Also you will note that in our press release we continue to affirm our same earnings estimates for 2013.
As you know we have also increased our cash monthly dividend significantly over the past year.
In addition to our regular quarterly increase we did a $0.35 annualized dividend increase in January.
We have increased the dividend 62 consecutive quarters and 71 times overall since we went public 18.5 years ago.
Dividends paid per common share increased 17.6% this quarter versus the same quarterly period a year ago.
Our current monthly dividend now equates to a current annualized amount of $2.175 per share.
Our AFFO dividend payout ratio for the quarter was 86%.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet.
We have continued to maintain a very conservative and safe capital structure.
In March we raised $755 million of new capital with a very successful common equity offering.
We sincerely thank the 16 investment banks involved in the placement of our common shares with investors and their respected brokerage system.
At quarter end our $1 billion unsecured acquisition credit facility had a balance of only $116.6 million.
Our credit facility also has a $500 million accordion expansion feature.
We did assume approximately $565 million of in place mortgages during the quarter as part of our property acquisition primarily in the ARCT acquisition.
We now have 48 assumed mortgages on 185 properties totaling approximately $729 million.
In March we did repay at maturity $100 million of bonds which were placed back in 2003.
Our next bond maturity is only $150 million and it is due in November of 2015.
Our overall current total debt to total market capitalization is 24.5% and our preferred stock outstanding is only 4.5% of our capital structure.
So in summary revenue growth this quarter was significant and our expenses remain moderate so our earnings growth was very positive.
And our overall balance sheet remains very healthy and safe and we continue to enjoy excellent access to the public capital markets to fund our continued growth.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tom who’ll give a little bit more background.
Thanks Paul.
I’ll start with just the general comment that was in the release which is obviously the first quarter was the best quarter I think operationally in the company’s history and each facet of the business had solid results.
So we’ll keep the commentary here a little shorter than usual because I think the results speak for themselves.
But let me start with the portfolio which continued to generate very consistent cash flow in the first quarter and general accounts pretty much all of the tenants are reporting doing pretty well.
There are no issues that arose with any tenants during the quarter and we believe that will be the case here in the second quarter.
So very smooth.
At the end of the quarter our largest 15 tenants that are listed in the release accounted for 42.6% of our revenue.
That’s down 680 basis points from the same period a year ago and down 450 basis points from the fourth quarter.
So the recent acquisition efforts continue to help us reduce any concentrations in the portfolio.
And we made continuous progress on this over time.
In 2008 the top 15 accounted for 54.3% of revenue and we’re now down to 42.6%.
We ended the quarter with 97.7% occupancy and that’s 81 properties available for lease out of the 3 525 that we own.
That’s up 50 basis points from the fourth quarter and 110 basis points from the same period a year ago.
And here in the second quarter we would anticipate occupancy remaining very strong likely to be flat or up slightly again this quarter and very pleased with that.
I mentioned in the past there are three ways you can do occupancy.
The one we use in the release is to take just the number of properties that are vacant 81 divided by the 3 525 and that’s how we get to 97.7%.
If you wanted to run it on a square footage basis that would get you to occupancy of 98.6%.
The third way you could do it is take the previous rents on any vacant properties and divide that by the sum of that number and the rent on the occupied properties and using that methodology occupancy is 98.8% and obviously any of the three indicated higher occupancy.
Same store rents on the core portfolio increased 1.5% during the first quarter.
As you recall during last year’s same-store rent was a small negative in the first three quarters and barely positive for the year.
So getting to 1.5% is a good rate I think for a net lease portfolio and it’s good to get back to that number.
Diversification really continued to widen substantially in the quarter.
As I mentioned before 3 525 properties.
That’s up 512 properties from last quarter in 46 different industries now with 195 different tenants in 49 states and Puerto Rico.
And then the industry exposures also continue to climb substantially.
Our largest industry today convenience stores is at 12%.
That’s down 290 basis points from last quarter and up 500 basis points from a year ago.
Restaurants as you know is an area that we had targeted to reduce.
If you combine both the casual dining and quick service is now down to 10.5% and that’s down 190 basis points from last quarter and 410 basis points over the same period a year ago.
I’ll just note we once I think had 22% of our revenue in that sector.
Theatres are at 6.7.
That’s down 200 basis points quarter and 300 for year.
And then you get to health and fitness and drug stores both about 6%.
Health and fitness down a bit and then the three industries really that have been moving up drug stores is at 6% now up 270 basis points from last quarter.
The dollar stores is up to about 5.6% and then transportation services at 5.2% when you get below that any other category is below 4% and a very good shape keeping industry concentrations reasonable.
Same thing on the tenant standpoint.
Our largest at 5.7% is FedEx that’s up over the last year because of some acquisitions we made and the ARCT portfolio.
L.A.
Fitness is second at 4.5% that’s down 60 basis points from the last quarter.
And then everything else is now down below 3.5% exposure in the portfolio.
And as I mentioned the largest top 15 are down 42.6%.
And when you get to the 15s you will notice you are about 1.5% of revenue so that this continues to widen on our tenant and also on an industry standpoint and certainly the same could be said from a geographic standpoint.
[Average leasing] due to acquisitions has remained very healthy at 11.1 year and as I mentioned the portfolio continues to generate very stable income with high occupancy.
Relative to property dispositions we accelerated the asset disposition program a bit during the quarter with a focus on the intent of trying to further strengthen the credit quality of the overall portfolio and doing that by reducing exposures in certain industries and properties that we think might be particularly sensitive to any economic weakness or a tenant whose balance sheet is levered and if interest rates were to go up we think that they might be somewhat at risk.
During the quarter we sold 17 properties for $60 million.
As you recall we were looking in our guidance for a little over $100 million in dispositions for the year and so getting $60 million of that done in the first quarter is very positive.
And we think that going forward that we will easily hit that 100.
I think we said 75 million to 100 million we believe we hit that and I would say well over 100 for the year at this point.
Most of the sales for the quarter were in the restaurant and (inaudible) industry relative to number of properties.
We also sold a multitenant investor property that we had had in the portfolio for about 25 years that had 375 tenants that we think exposure to economic weakness might be substantially more than the balance of our portfolio and so we moved that out with a sale.
I think it's safe to say the amount of sales just like acquisitions will vary quarter-to-quarter and be a bit lumpy but they could accelerate a bit more as the year goes on.
Let me move on to property acquisitions.
As I have talked about for some time acquisitions will vary quarter-to-quarter and they are a challenge to predict for any individual quarter.
But given really excellent transaction flow that we are seeing right now and what we did in the first quarter which is a little more than we generally do we are off to a very good start for the year.
The first quarter as I mentioned is a little slow.
If you recall last year I think we did $1.2 billion and I think we did $10 million in the first quarter.
So at $128 million we view that as a positive.
I also think that transaction volume at that this point tells us this should be another very good year for acquisitions.
We initially had in the guidance $550 million.
I can say now and we are sitting in fairly early April but that should not be an issue for us.
And we should be able to meet that and exceed that which is very much a positive at this time of the year.
Let me have John Case our President and Chief Investment Officer make some comments about what we did and kind of what we are seeing out there in the marketplace.
John? As Tom said we remain active on the acquisitions front.
During the first quarter we made $128 million in property level investments in 27 properties at an average yield of 7.9%.
These properties had a weighted average lease term of just under 14 years and 22% of these assets are leased to investment grade tenants.
The properties are leased to 14 different tenants and 11 different industries so well diversified.
Two of the tenants are new to our portfolio and the most significant industries represented were transportation services and [health] business.
Properties are located in 16 states and about 80% of the investments are comprised of our traditional retail properties.
Of course this activity was in addition to our $3.2 billion acquisition of American realty capital trust which added 515 properties and closed in January.
So our combined total investment in real estate for the first quarter was just under $3.3 billion and 542 properties.
This was clearly our most active quarter in our company's history by a significant margin.
Let me spend a moment here and talk about the market environment today.
I’ll start with transaction flow.
Tom just alluded to that.
We continue to be very busy.
So far in the first quarter we sourced $4.3 billion in acquisition opportunities.
So transaction flow continues to remain strong.
We continue to work on a number of these opportunities and we’re expecting another active year for transaction flow.
While investment opportunities are fairly abundant competition for these acquisitions is also abundant.
There are plenty of well capitalized buyers in the market today led by private and public lease REITS but we’re also seeing some other private institutional buyers seeking yield in our space.
These buyers are using more leverage with the CMBS market in our space that has gained strength here in the past quarter or two.
And that’s helping our private buyers better compete.
But we expect to continue to close on a fair share of these opportunities.
As far as pricing goes cap rates remain low relative to historical standards.
Given the strong bid in the market today they’re coming under a bit more pressure.
Non-investment grade properties are trading in the 7% to 8% cap rate range.
Investment grade assets are trading in the 6% to 7% cap rate range.
However our overall cost of capital has also continued to decline.
So our investment spreads remain very healthy relative to our historical averages.
The current market portfolios in the $50 to $250 million range continue to trade at premium pricing relative to single assets.
So buyers are willing to pay a portfolio premium in order to deploy larger amounts of capital efficiently.
This is the trend we’ve been seeing for the last year or so and we expect to see it continuing.
So to recap our outlook we do remain optimistic about achieving our previous acquisitions guidance of $550 million for this year.
We are still modeling a 7.25% initial yield on acquisitions for 2013.
But that number will depend on our ultimate mix of investment grade and non-investment grade acquisitions.
In the first quarter our property level acquisitions yielded 7.9% it's really reflective of investment grade assets accounting for 22% of the total volume.
We would expect our near-term quarterly average cap rates to be a bit closer to the 7.25% rates we have communicated to the market.
Thanks John.
John likes to use the term to get our fair share.
I would prefer us giving our disproportionate fair share.
Either way we are pleased with the start here for the year and very pleased where spreads are in the marketplace.
It's a very good time due to acquire.
Obviously the recent acquisitions have certainly contributed to our revenue earnings and dividend growth and that is very visible in the numbers here in the first quarter.
But the other thing we are doing they also and equally important to have continued to help us adjust the makeup of our portfolio where we are focused on moving the portfolio up the credit curve and obviously we have made very good progress on that throughout this quarter with investment grade tenants now making up around 35% of the portfolio.
As I talked to it bit about last quarter over the last 36 months or so we have now acquired about $6.2 billion of property including RT.
About $3.7 billion of that is in retail and really pointed towards sectors that we think should continue to do well in what we anticipate is a somewhat more sluggish retail environment over the next 15-20 years than it had been in the past.
And so we are really happy to get that invested and focused in the areas we want.
About $2.5 billion of what we acquired are in areas outside of retail that we think will do well for us all with investment grade tenants.
And of that total $6.2 billion about $3.9 billion or 63% of what we acquired over the last 36 months have been with investment grade tenants.
And what's interesting is a good measure of the rest of the tenants and acquisitions while not investment grade are also further up the credit curve than the average in the portfolio just a few years ago and we are pleased with that.
It's kind of interesting to watch that move and I will share some statistics with you.
If we go back and really look at having set out and thought that we should do this from 2008 and really started executing it in 2010.
If you look in 2008 our top 15 tenants did 54.3% of our revenue.
Their average [DAR] score and the [DAR] score is our credit score that approximated credit score similar to what the rating agencies would do.
So the average [DAR] score on our scale is about 6.92 which would equate to a single B plus or Double B minus credit rating.
And also none of the top 15 tenants had investment grade ratings.
Having undertaken this project starting three years ago today the top 15 are down to 42.6% of our revenue.
The average [DAR] credit score is up to 11.67.
That approximates to approximately to a triple B minus credit rating for the tenants and six of the top 15 carry investment grade rating.
So really most of the work has been done in the last three years.
But looking out it was 2008 we have gone from 54.3% of revenue to 42.6%.
The DAR score is 6.92 to 11.67 and we are now up to where six of our top 15 tenants are investment grade.
And that’s over really just about four years of activity.
And we anticipate that trend will continue in that what we are trying to accomplish.
I think the other thing about that’s important to us is how we paid for the acquisitions over the last three years.
We did issue about $1.2 billion investment grade notes most long-term at very good rates.
As Paul mentioned we have assumed some mortgages in the portfolio as we have taken over that we intend to pay off as quickly as we can.
And we have done in that period about $162 million of property sales.
More important to us is issuing a little over $400 million in perpetual preferred.
And then we have issued equity in the last three years or so six times and generated about $3.7 billion in gross proceeds.
So about $6.24 billion in capital overall of which $4 billion was common and/or preferred.
And as we all live here in this very low interest rate environment I think we want to remember that these rates there’s a possibility they won’t persist for ever and be mindful of where they could go what funding costs could be and what has to be rolled over.
So getting a lot of preferred in the equity done has been very positive and we intend to keep the balance sheet in really good shape that may even modestly delever from here on a bit to keep us in really good position.
Relative to capital we’re in very good shape.
As Paul mentioned there’s plenty of dry powder to execute on the acquisitions as they present themselves.
Raising a net $755 million in equity a few weeks ago was very helpful to make sure the $1 billion credit line with the $500 million [quoting] was available.
And so now we’re in very good shape there.
Capital obviously is extremely attractively priced and spreads are very wide.
So I really think that we’re in great shape.
I would note that we’re particularly pleased watching how the equity has performed here in recent weeks.
If you think about it we’ve put about $2.8 billion of equity into the market in the last 90 days between our T and the offering.
And so for the equity to perform this way I think it’s fair to say the market seems to have absorbed it fairly well and we have good access.
Earnings as Paul mentioned normalized FFO at $0.61 up 32%.
That’s a percentage number we haven’t seen before.
Same thing with FFO at $0.60 up 20%.
Relative to the guidance we are staying with our previous guidance for now.
We think April at this point we feel very good about all facets of the operations and very comfortable with the primary drivers to achieving the guidance which is as John mentioned $550 million in acquisitions and we think it will easily hit that and likely exceed it.
But for now we’ll stay where we are and revisit the numbers over the next quarter.
So things on hold.
That puts normalized FFO for the year at $2.32 to $2.38 which is around 15% to 28% growth and AFFO at $2.33 to $2.39 which is 13% to 16% growth.
I’ll finish with dividends.
We remain optimistic that we’ll be able to continue to increase the dividend.
Obviously had nice movement in that in the first quarter as Paul mentioned and we look forward to have additional increases over the year.
And with that Tager if you’ll come back and help us with questions we’d appreciate it.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Please come ahead sir.
John if we can go back to your previous comment of I guess acquisitions [since] you’re hanging that let’s call it 7.25% range.
What was the driver of such a higher cap rate in the first quarter? Yeah.
It was primarily the percentage of non-investment grade assets we closed.
We closed 22% in investment grade which was a bit lower than we had been closing in the previous quarters and certainly 64% in investment grade investments we did in 2012.
So that’s the main driver Manny.
Yeah.
There was one transaction we did in the first quarter with a tenant we like a great deal and it had a very attractive yield for what is a non-rated company.
But if they were rated it would certainly be considered investment grade.
So we were able to secure a good deal there and it just happened to be where what came in this quarter versus what may come in next quarter.
And then maybe Tom you could tell us a little bit more about how competition has been split between the investment grade product and maybe the stuff that looks less perfect on paper but at the end of the day is all good property.
You mean the transaction flow that’s come in the door? And maybe just the competitors that are looking at those types of assets.
I’ll take that Manny.
We’re seeing a fairly broad group of competitors on both sides.
I would say there are a bit more on the traditional retail product on the institutional larger buyers than there are on the non-retail product.
And on the investment grade side there’s good competition out there but primarily from the higher quality companies with lower capital cost that can pursue this type of product.
So it's probably not quite as extensive as on the non-investment grade.
Is that what you were looking for? Yeah perfect.
And there is plenty of people looking to buy properties in both sectors Manny.
And maybe just to dig in a little bit deeper on what you were saying earlier Tom that it sounds like you have kind of stuck to you guns in the retail space though I guess [RT] was the biggest mix of retail and non-retail.
What can we expect for the rest of the year? Are you guys kind of literally going to look at things just on what comes through or is there a goal to diversify more out of retail? You know it's we are willing to do either what we are really focused on is taking a look at the retailers and the consumer they serve.
And it's discretionary goods and services or what they sell and there target markets better be the upper middle income or the upper income because it it's lower middle or lower we don’t want to buy it.
So focus there.
And then on the non-discretionary type goods and services if that’s what the retailer is selling then we are pretty good at the upper and middle income but if it's lower we want to make sure that there is very deep value proposition and that’s why we have gotten into the Club Stores and Dollar Stores and others.
And that is a big focus when we are in retail.
And then generically moving up the credit curve and in retail there are investment grade credits but there is a limited number.
And so to get the portfolio up to credit curve we are more than willing to look outside of retail.
But it really has to be the Fortune 500 maybe Fortune 1000 and investment grade and what we think is property that they would consider it very very important to their business.
So whether it comes in an either basket we don’t really mind.
And we are happy to have both sides expand a little more so if retail went up a little bit it wouldn’t bother us as long as it was hit right where we wanted to go and generally up the curve.
But we would be happy if retail which I think in the quarter was around 79 if that falls to 75 or 4 or 3 or 2 that’s fine too.
But I don’t have a numerical target on either one of those.
It's really just those boxed we are trying to hit in terms of what we want to acquire and what we want to stay away from.
Our next question comes from line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Quick one can you tell us what the disposition cap rate was on your assets during the quarter? That is a great question and let me see if I have that sitting here in front of me which I may or may not have.
Well for the year Manny our estimate for call it a 100 million plus it's going to be 8.75% if that’s okay.
Do you know what it was in the quarter? Disposition cap.
No we have got it here I am sorry.
It was a little actually lower than what we were planning for the year.
I do know that because the one larger multi-tenant sale was substantially lower than that.
Do you remember the cap rate on the transaction? Yeah it was like a 7.5 and that was a big piece of it.
So I would guess it is probably is closer to the 7-7.5 range but we will try to....
I think we will do better than the 7.5 we tend to model that conservatively depending on what we chose to sell later in the year.
Okay.
Maybe there is a broader question but you guys have been very clear over the last few that you are trying to minimize the retail and get more investment grade get slightly different property types.
Is that a trend that you expect to [give in] or do you think that there will be some other move that you would like to make to really reshape the portfolio over the next couple of years? Yeah I do think we will continue doing what we are doing.
And as I said in the last question we were happy to be in retail and we haven’t moved away from it and we are happy to buy.
We are just going to be more particular in terms of who the tenants are who they serve and what their balance sheet looks like.
And so if we think they are investment grade or close so there is not a big refinance risk when interest rates go up we are happy to do it.
And as long as we are staying away from consumer discretionary to just kind of lower income is who they market to then we are happy to do it.
And we would be just (inaudible) retail space right where it is.
However we are also focused on generically moving up the curve.
And so if it's out to do that we are happy to do it.
We don’t have a target.
It's right now 78 or 79 21-22 is the mix and over the course of the year if I had to guess we will probably see a little more outside of retail but we’re probably in the year where retail is still over 70% of the portfolio.
Last question.
When you’re looking at some larger scale acquisitions given that you have significantly [priced] your enterprise value than you have in the past do you think you have a little bit more room today to take on secure debt from another company from another portfolio? Would you have a little bit more ability to do that or would that be something that you just don’t want to risk the balance sheet on? We have done that.
We’ve got over $700 million of secured debt naturally come from buying portfolio.
So we’re willing to do it.
But when we do it we try and pay off anything we can that doesn’t have significant prepayment penalties and is an economic payoff.
And then we will even place if there’s one two three four year debt and see and pay that off as soon as we can.
So it is our preference not to have any secured debt but given size to buy portfolios I think that that will be the case from time to time.
But it’s going to remain a very small part of our balance sheet.
And it is something we could consider but as soon as we get it on the books the purpose is get it off.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Lesnick with Robert W.
Baird.
Please come ahead sir.
I’m just standing in for Paula.
I just wanted to follow up on an earlier question about the competition.
I know you guys talked about competition across the credit spectrum already but are you seeing increased competition in certain industries relative to other industries that you’re looking at acquiring? Not really.
There’s pretty strong competition across the board and we’re not really seeing it vary by the industry of the tenant.
Yeah.
There’s enough people that are broad in terms of what they’ll look at whether it’s investment grade or non-investment grade but I don’t think there are any sectors that are just standing there with gaping holes with nobody investing in them.
And we look through all the industries we’re in.
we buy convenience stores.
Other people do.
We buy theatres.
Other people do and you can go right across it.
We’re not buying casual dining sit down dinner house restaurants but other people are.
So the fact we’re out of that doesn’t mean I think there’s a gaping hole.
It’s competitive throughout.
The performance of the net lease companies obviously has been relatively good for most of just the last few years and with the demand for yields both institutionally and retail given the yield characteristics in that lease it’s pretty much across the board everywhere.
We’re fortunate that we have done this a long time.
We have the experience and size and so the deal flow has been equally good.
But it’s competitive all the way across.
And then secondly I just wanted to hone in again on the disposition guidance.
I know you mentioned $100 million plus.
In your comments you said well over $100 million potentially and it could accelerate through the year.
Could you ballpark that as maybe $100 to $150 or $100 to $200? How much of a disposition pipeline or backlog do you guys have that you’re trying to get through? That’s a good question and let me take a little time here and give some clarity how we look at it.
First the number of saying 75 to 100 and that’s up from 50 it was up from 25 or so the year before.
So I now would be surprised if we didn’t hit over 100 but I don’t have this backlog of stuff that I really feel I need to get out because I’m very much worried about it.
The objective is just generally sell if it will increase the cash flow if it materially increases credit quality or if it reduces concentration.
Bu the primary area is where we’ve gone through the portfolio really parsed it and seen where we see risks.
And that’s what we’re trying to sell and we originally targeted if you recall I spent some time on a previous call and maybe it’s a good time to talk a little bit of that now focusing around what we’re trying to do and changing the portfolio.
I think you know that will do it quick and then related to because of that we look at dispositions.
As I mentioned we’re trying to go up the credit curve and really trying to hit retailers that hit the consumers in certain way and stay away from the rest of them.
That’s just a function of how we see the economy going forward and interest rates.
A few years ago what we did is we sat down and reenter the whole portfolio and it was 67 tenants that do 83% of revenue.
And we rerated all the industries based on our views and then the consumer they serve.
And then there were 24 different metrics which were a lot of debt fixed charge coverage and margin and the big part of it though was saying if they had to refinance the whole balance sheet and permanent financing costs were 300 basis points higher what it would look like and then 600 basis points higher.
And then we model the perfect storm which is revenues down margins tightened and then interest rates up by 600 basis points.
And when we finished we really dropped everything in the four categories.
And we had a kind of green color code which is strong buy that was 23% of our revenues were generated by tenants who did that.
Yellow which was buy was 21% of revenue.
Red which was hold was 16% of revenue.
And then kind of black and this is for retailers who are in 23% of the revenue and that’s kind of sell.
And so we looked at that and said okay we want to materially change the composition of the portfolio.
And starting three years ago the easiest way to do that is acquisitions.
And when you do it with acquisitions there is a side benefit and that is it increases your earnings and your dividends materially.
So that really was the focus.
And so we drove in and said as I talked about a couple of times now consumer non-discretionary the value propositions.
Consumer discretionary making sure it's low price point in ticket and going up the credit curve and outside of retail.
And the result we bought the $6.2 billion it's a 120 different tenants 41 industries.
60% of it was retail 40% wasn’t.
But 63% of everything we bought in the last three years was investment grade.
And so that took investment grade from zero to about 35% and it really changed the portfolio.
The property sales program is the other way to do it.
And if you take what was 23% of revenues that comes from retailers that are rated black or sell that’s the first step.
But the second step is then we don’t own their bonds and stock we own their property.
So we need to look at the individual properties we own and we want to look at their profitability to see how big the margin of safety is.
And that might cause us to want to keep the property even though we are not particularly enamored with that particular retail and the area they are in.
And then we want to look at if the rent on the property is above or below market.
And if it's above see where the risk is and if it's below if there is an opportunity to capture rent if it came off lease.
And then we will want to probably keep the rest even though the retailer might be rated down in that area.
So initially we came up with a list of 190 million of property sales that we wanted to make that we thought would make a material dent in reducing the risk of our existing portfolio coupled with a pretty large acquisition pipeline.
Today we have sold 162 million of that 190.
So I do have a list there.
And then we will move further into kind of black or so rated tenant but with some better properties.
And at that point we may just move into the red a little bit.
So there I don’t have this pressing pressing need.
And if you combined the sales and the acquisitions -- you want to grab a pen these might be interesting numbers.
In 2011 when we reentered the portfolio it was 67 tenants that did 83% of our revenue.
And I mentioned a minute ago 22.8% were in the green strong buy.
21.4% were in the yellow buy.
15.9% were in the red hold.
And then we have 22.9% of our revenue came from people at black sell.
Now roll forward to be in the first quarter and it's now 118 tenants that make up 87.2% of our revenue that are in these numbers.
And we now have in the strong buy green category 58 tenants that now do 42.7% of our revenue.
So we are from in that category up from 22.8% of revenue to 42.7%.
In the yellow we have got 21 tenants that are 21.9% of revenue.
So that’s up a bit.
In the red or hold we have moved to 25 tenants that are only 9.8% of revenues.
So we have gone from 59% to 9.8% there.
And then in the black that was 22.9% of the portfolio is down to 12.8% and its only 14 tenants.
And I think of one individual tenant that’s chunky in that 12.8%.
And in that one we went through and did an analysis at property level and found that we had properties where the rents were above market and the cash flow coverages were okay and we have sold those.
We had some where the rent were about at market and the cash flow coverage were just okay and we have sold those.
But in that particular tenant there was just a lot of property where the cash flow coverage was modest but the rent substantially below market.
We actually think there is a recapture there so we won't sell those.
But that’s kind of it.
I mean we can make more progress on this in the acquisition side and we also increase earnings and dividends and we have done a lot of what we were really worried about on the sales.
So I am going to plug it at $100 to $125 million and then if over the course of the year we decide to do a little more we’ll communicate that.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead sir.
The same-store growth you highlighted was 1.5% in the quarter.
It’s historically only been about 1% maybe a little bit better than that.
Is this a rate we should expect the rest of the year and what do you contribute this a little bit above the average growth to? It’s funny.
I think it was a little above average and if you want a run rate I think 1% is a good one to use.
Interestingly enough if you go back a few years ago in the recession you’ll recall we had a few tenants out of our very large group of tenants that went through some chapter 11s and one of the things we did when we set some rents lower for them we were also to build in some recapture if their business rebounded and their business has now rebounded and so strangely enough a good part of that comes from the restaurant industry and it comes from tenants that there was a problem and their rent accelerated over the last few months as their business was better and our leases had been changed to capture part of that.
But we think going forward and particularly with the RT coming into the numbers over time I think 1% is a good run rate.
And then you guided for 7.25% for 2013 acquisitions.
And the average lease term was up around 14 years in the quarter.
What’s the fair lease term average for the remainder of the year? You think it will be that long or closer to the in-place average of about 11? I think it could range from 11 up to 15 16 right in there.
It’s hard to tell at this point.
But they are all pretty much initial terms above 10.
You see some 20.
You see a fair amount of 15.
It just depends on how much you end up doing at each lease side.
And then it could be impacted if one of the larger transactions come through and that can change the cap rate up or down depending on who the tenant is.
Those numbers John gave you are the ones that we’re using for modeling.
And just to stay on that theme if a good portfolio of assets was presented to you with an investment grade tenant roster would you deemed an attractive price what would be the shortest average lease time you would consider? Interesting.
I would never say never and I think that’s smart to do.
But when you get inside of 10 years it starts growing some concern from us and you would have to be able to get in and establish that the rents were at or substantially below market before you want to go much inside 10 years I think.
And that’s in a chunky one or two tenant acquisitions something that could be done but in a broad M&amp;A type situation it becomes a bit more challenging.
So on any granular acquisition 10 years is where we just draw the line and if it was an M&amp;A situation we’d like to think 10 years subject to review of where rents are verse market.
That’s helpful Tom.
And Paul I assume you used a line to meet your March debt maturity? That’s correct.
Is that factored into guidance and how long would you assume if that would sit there and how long is that factored in and I guess how much is factored in the guidance? Well that was factored in the guidance.
We just planned since it was only $100 million to do it on the line and then let the line balance run up a bit before we would consider a more permanent financing activity in concert with the acquisition deal flow run rate and what happens there.
So we sit here today in very good shape in terms of what that line balance is and no imminent capital needs.
But that would really at this point be dependent upon the acquisition deal flow and when that stuff closes.
We also when we were looking at whatever financing we do next and plugging in what it would cost us tried to use a rate substantially higher than where debt is sitting today and then that gives us the option of doing equity preferred without materially moving the model.
And if we decided to do debt it would have an impact.
Yes.
We basically modeled it where we could do anything if you will at that time equity preferred or debt.
Our next question comes from the line of [Daniel Dowling with Landenberg Dowling].
Please go ahead sir.
Just real quick on the 7.9% acquisition cap rate.
Is that (inaudible) cash? Yeah.
So on a GAAP basis what would that be? More.
It would be probably 8.10% in that area.
Okay.
And then what is the interest rate -- what is the average interest rate on the 700 million that you guys (inaudible) that ARCT? That’s part ARCT and parts other we have taken.
Right.
So the total portfolio of mortgage is 729 million then? Yeah.
As a weighted average and straight right now of 5.4%.
Okay.
All right.
And then as we look at kind of the rent increases or decreases I guess you could say on the subsequent expirations versus your initial lease expirations.
Who should we look at that would you expect to see higher rent growth on the initial expirations and then less on the subsequent or does it...? We do better on the subsequent then we do on the initial.
And traditionally the subsequent has done very well and is up and the initial is down.
Roll overs this year so far and the ones we have done are up about 3.3%.
Modeling for the year will kind of just assuming that they will be pretty much flat.
Traditionally and this gets back very historical we had rolled down.
And the roll down I think back in 2002 was about 24% in that peak.
And one of the things that we did started seeing in the mid-90s is that roll down at the end of the lease was really starting to hit us and this is in the mind-90s.
And we dramatically changed how we acquire.
Previous to that everything we acquired was a new store and we didn’t have cash flow coverages and they were all less than investment grade.
And we found they did pretty well throughout the lease but at the end of the lease if we bought a bunch of new stores about a third of them were below average a third average and a third above.
So we totally changed our underwriting in retail to pre-select those with high cash flow coverage and profits.
So we would not preselect the one-third that were underperformers.
So over the years what's happened is the burn that we get in lease rollover keeps declining pretty substantially.
And yet the portfolio that’s rolling over is stuff that was bought still quite a bit ago particularly the subsequent.
So the last year there was a roll down of about 4%.
And so far this year it's up 3% and we are thinking it will be closer to zero.
And I think that’s a good way to think of it.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then just two quick housekeeping items.
What is the amortization of net mortgage premiums that you guys recognize in the AFFO line? What's the run rate there (inaudible)? Yeah obviously that’s associated with any portion of the mortgages that we assume that are above market.
And the projections for the year is about $9.2 million.
You see the quarterly amount just trying to grab the AFFO page indicated in here just under $2 million that occurred in the quarter.
But the projections for the year right now based on the mortgages that we currently own is about $9.2 million.
And that is an amount that we reduced from AFFO in order to arrive a real bottom line cash flow amount for us.
Okay.
And the capitalized interest in the quarter? That’s a pretty small number.
I don’t really have that handy.
You don’t mean capital expenditures? No no just capitalized interest.
I was just curious if you guys are doing any funding up developments and what not.
I know you have done that back in the past so.
We are and I don’t know John if you have the number handy but we definitely have some development commitments underway.
But it's a pretty small amount.
And total for the currently...
Let me give those numbers Tom.
Yeah in the first quarter of our activity 11 million of that was in development funding and funding of expansions on existing assets.
And we have $21 million in development funding or banking.
So it's a pretty small number relative to our overall size.
But I don’t have the capitalized interest associated with that.
And (inaudible) those numbers and is not looking for capitalized interest but thinking about development risk.
All of those are on existing properties where a lease has been placed so there is no lease-up risk on that.
It's just expansions or we bought the land and we are funding the development but we have the lease in place from the tenant already.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Please go ahead sir.
Just a quick one on property site distribution.
I know that healthcare is now on the roster.
It’s just under 2% of revenues.
I just wonder if you could explain a bit more about what that is and then in general if you could talk about your attitude toward triple that lease healthcare and whether or not you expect that to be an area that grows in the portfolio.
Most of that came from the RT acquisitions.
The tenants there are DaVita which most people know is one of the largest in the dialysis area an also Fresenius.
There’s also a few express scripts properties actually a few leased to GE Healthcare and then like four MOBs I believe they are that are at the Saint Joseph’s.
So it’s fairly limited.
It is not an area we’re targeting.
If it grows it would surprise me as of now.
I guess it could a little bit.
But those are mostly that came out of that area and I don’t think I have a formal attitude towards it outside that it’s an area and an industry that is very well financed by some very smart folks.
And if we find something at the margin time but it’s not anything we’re pointing to.
And then just wanted to see if you could update us on rent escalators related to inflation across your portfolio.
I know a few years back you guys were trying to get more of those written into your leases.
I was wondering if you could tell us what percentage the portfolio now has escalators specifically related to something like CPI and whether or not you have better success today than you did in the past on new sale lease back transactions getting something like that written into the initial leases.
Today the number is 15.61% of like real inflation percentage sale that type of stuff going into it.
And that’s up substantially from a few years ago and I would give us a C to D grade at best in getting that done.
It is extraordinarily difficult.
It is not the norm in the industry and is really an out wire and is probably one of the more frustrating things in the management of the business and something that we really continue to work on.
And as we drop back into a strategic planning mode which we’re going to do this year that is something that we’re really going to think about where we could go to try and accomplish that.
But today in the net lease business it’s C&amp;O.
it’s the fountain of youth that comes daily on but nobody ever finds.
And I really think that’s the case and you have to really parse how you ask the question because if you say do you have CPI accelerators in your leases? Well yeah.
It would be a massive number for us but they’re capped.
So what they really are is fixed increases.
So it really does need to be asked but it’s unrestricted and that’s about 15.6% for us and very unusual to get.
And then just last question with regards to the assets for divestiture.
I know you had an industrial property in there I guess you said this quarter.
Going forward is it reasonable to assume that those are pretty much going to be all retail or are there any other property sectors that you guys have invested in more recently that have properties that are falling into that bucket for divestiture? I think the bucket is going to be retail and I think it’s going to be the ones that have fallen down in that category.
And tenants that are very levered and it will probably be dominated by restaurants and there may be some convenience stores and then a smattering of other things.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Right now about a third of your portfolio is investment grade and that’s obviously up substantially over the last couple of years.
As we listen to the call Tom I’m wondering the ultimate goal clearly is 100% investment grade even though you keep moving up the investment grade curve and during the quarter you had below one third investment grade tenants come up.
And I’m wondering has big move in investment grade change to the portfolio occurred and 35% is about right for the total? Or is there much more to go from this point? I hope it hasn’t occurred and I hope there is much more to go because I’d like that number to be substantially higher.
But I want to modify it in that it’s not just buying investment to buy investment grade.
The reason we want to do it is over the last 30 years the tenures quite frankly have just gone from 15% to 1.7% when I looked at it this morning.
And that has made a lot of very levered business strategies that involve a lot of financial engineering work.
And should interest rates go up which were really low I want to focus on companies that would really have trouble refinancing their balance sheet.
Now that means generally investment grade companies are going to be less impacted.
There are tenants who are not investment grade.
Who don’t have a lot of debt but they are not investment or a even a [shallow] rating might be less than investment grade because of their size.
But if they are size and they don’t have big refinance risk exposure and the customer they serve doesn’t then still interests us very much.
Even though they are not investment grade because we are really for that lack of risk relative to refinance.
However the bigger the entity the lower the default rate.
The rating agencies will tell you all your research tells us that.
But I don’t want to say always but I would like it to continue to increase.
But we are happy to have some of the tenants not being investment grade.
But even those that aren’t I will tell you have moved up the curve where they are closer to investment grade substantially then they were a number of years ago.
Much less of the highly levered private equity M&amp;A type of stuff.
Okay.
Good.
I got you.
That makes sense.
Then on the disposition just for a moment.
How much of the portfolio is double net non-triple net maybe multi-tenants which I assume aren’t as attractive that fall in not so much into a tenant category but fall into a tight category that you would want to divest.
Is that part of the strategy as well? Yeah I mean you know the industrial property that we sold during the quarter was like 400 00 square feet with 375 small tenants.
And so you start looking at a weak economic environment you would worry there.
But we are kind of pretty much done with that.
We have sold most of what we had there.
The double net that we might have is actually more up the credit curve with people and it's just that it’s 2.5 net where you may have some responsibility with it.
But those aren’t things that we are really looking to get out of.
We are looking at those when we underwrite them relative to the cap rate we get and try and amortize some type of expense ratio for them even if the expenses are lumpy.
Obviously so you didn’t get multitenant from RT that you are trying to get rid off? No.
No that portfolio was almost all pretty straight net lease.
You know if we get a bunch of grocery anchor centers we will think about (inaudible).
Yeah I got you.
Okay.
And then on the G&amp;A front it sounds like you are just annualizing this quarter pretty much for the year which means that you have done the hiring and the additional infrastructure that you need to support things like RT.
Is that true? So you are pretty much done with that sort of aspect of business? Well yeah.
That’s part of the answer and then the other part is we did have some G&amp;A reduction because some of the employees who were associated with the large multi-tenant asset we sold effects that employee count if you will.
So that kind of offset the number a little bit but got ahead in the last one (inaudible).
Yeah.
And I will tell you one of the reasons I don’t want to move the guidance right now we feel very comfortable where it is is I think it could get better but I also think we may do some more G&amp;A this year.
We are kind of doing a project in house from looking at if the company was twice as large what it would need to look like how would reporting look what would people be doing.
And then we have identified a number of areas where we want to add staff and expertise.
And there's probably a number of people and acquisitions where we are going to do that.
A number of people in research we want to do that.
There has been some movement internally so we need to do that portfolio management.
And we will have a I think a pretty good increase in employee count during the course of this year.
We just kind of earned the midst of our recruiting and the undergrad out there and we will probably do a much bigger class this year then we have done in the past.
So we have grown substantially and I think we need to add a few people for that even though this addition to the RT is very efficient but we also want to plan for growth.
And so we are going to need I think a couple of more executives around here and a good group of professionals added in.
So there will be more.
And most of that won't affect the 2013 estimate too much Rich.
But it will certainly increase the annualized run rate as we add in people over the course of the year on a go forward basis.
Okay I got you.
So that’s all in the $45 million.
So it sounds good.
The last thing Paul the other income line items was I think substantially higher.
What was that exactly? That’s always a mixed bag of interest income on cash if we do a capital raise and the cash sits around for a few days or a week if you will.
Interest income in that sense also evenness in takings which are a normal part of the portfolio manager process.
So if you have a situation where there’s an eminent domain or a portion of your parking lot sometimes it doesn’t mean it affects the viability of the asset itself.
It actually ends up being pretty positive proceeds that we receive in this situation.
So that’s all that 1.4 is is a mixed bag of those items if you will.
Nothing different about the normal business.
So that goes back down I assume most likely in 2Q? Correct.
I don’t think 1.4 million is an appropriate run rate.
No.
This concludes our question-and-answer portion of the Realty Income conference call.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Lewis for concluding remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you everybody for joining us for this.
I know it’s a busy season particularly a busy day and we appreciate the attention look forward to talking to you at one of the upcoming events.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income Second Quarter 2013 Earnings conference call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday July 25 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Lewis CEO of Realty Income.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you Sheryl and good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to the conference call and thank you for joining us.
In the room with me today I have Gary Malino our President and Chief Operating Officer; Paul Meurer our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mike Pfeiffer our EVP General Counsel; and Sumit Roy our Executive Vice President Acquisitions.
And as always during this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in the forward-looking statement.
We will disclose in greater detail on the company’s Form 10-Q the factors that may cause such differences.
And as is our custom why don’t we start with Paul to walk through the quarter.
Thanks Tom.
As usual I’ll comment briefly on our financial statements provide a few highlights of our financial result for the quarter starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 63% for the quarter.
Our current revenue on an annualized basis now is approximately $765 million.
And of course this increase reflects positive same-store rents of 1.1% but more significantly it obviously reflects our growth from new acquisitions over the past year.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased significantly to $78 million in the quarter as depreciation expense has obviously increased naturally with our portfolio growth.
Interest expense increased in the quarter to $39.1 million.
This increase was primarily due to the $800 million of bonds that were issued last October as well as some credit facility borrowings during the past quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remain strong with interest coverage at 4.1 times and fixed charge coverage at 3.3 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the second quarter were approximately $12 million dollars.
Our G&amp;A expenses naturally increased this past year as our acquisition activity has increased and we added some new personnel to manage a larger portfolio.
Our employee base has grown from 89 employees a year ago to 104 employees at quarter end.
However our total G&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues has decreased to only 6.5% and this compares to a historic run rate for G&amp;A of about 7.5% to 8% of revenues.
Our current projection for G&amp;A for all of 2013 is about $58 million.
Property expenses were just under $3.3 million for the quarter and our property expense estimate for all of 2013 remains about $15 million.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the company.
They were $722 000 for the quarter.
Merger-related costs obviously this line item refers to the costs associated with the ARCT acquisition.
During the quarter we expensed $605 000 of such remaining costs.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $3.9 million.
This income is associated with our property sales activity during the quarter.
We sold 17 properties during the quarter for $23.7 million with gain on sales of $5.7 million.
And just a reminder that we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or in our AFFO.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest refers to the limited partners of the operating partnership that we purchased in the ARCT acquisition and a new Realty Income LP we formed this past quarter.
The assets and operations of these two subsidiary partnerships are 100% consolidated into Realty Income.
Preferred stock cash dividend totaled approximately $10.5 million for the quarter.
Net income available to common stockholders was about $44.2 million for the quarter.
Reminder that our normalized FFO simply add back the ARCT merger-related costs to FFO.
We believe normalized FFO is a more appropriate portrayal of our operating performance and it’s consistent with our public FFO earnings estimates and first call FFO estimates that analysts have published on us.
Normalized FFO per share was $0.51 for the quarter a 24.5% increase versus a year ago.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash that we have available for distribution as dividend was $0.59 per share for the quarter an 18% increase versus a year ago.
We again increased our cash monthly dividend this quarter.
We have increased the dividend 63 consecutive quarters and 72 times overall since we went public over 18.5 years ago.
Dividends paid per common share increased 24.5% this quarter versus the same quarterly period a year ago.
Our current monthly dividend now equates to a current annualized amount of approximately $2.179 per share.
Our AFFO dividend payout ratio year-to-date has been 87%.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet.
We have continued to maintain our conservative and safe capital structure.
Earlier this month as you know we raised $750 million of new capital with a 10-year bond offering at 4.65%.
Our $1 billion unsecured acquisition credit facility currently has zero borrowings and this facility also has a $500 million accordion expansion feature.
We assumed approximately $65 million of in-place mortgages during the quarter as part of our property acquisitions.
We now have 51 assumed mortgages on 229 properties totaling approximately $793 million.
Our upcoming mortgage maturities though are only $24 million the reminder of this year and $64 million in 2014.
Our next bond maturity is only $150 million which is not due until November of 2015.
Our overall current total debt to total market cap is 29.5% and our preferred stock outstanding is only 4.5% of our current capital structure.
So in summary revenue growth this quarter was significant and our expenses remain moderate so our earnings growth was very positive.
And our overall balance sheet remains very healthy and safe and we continue to enjoy excellent access to the public capital markets to fund our continued growth.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tom who’ll give a little bit more background on these results.
Thank you Paul.
Let me start just by saying I think in the second quarter we continued pretty good positive momentum from the first quarter and had I think excellent results in each facet of the business and I’ll start with the portfolio which again generated very consistent income during the quarter pretty much across the board the tenants are doing well no issues arose with any of the tenants during the quarter and based on what we see now that should be the case during the third quarter very very smooth.
At the end of the quarter our largest 15 tenants and they are listed in the release accounted for 43.5% of our revenue that’s down 500 basis points from the same period a year ago and up 90 from the first quarter.
There may be some I think ebb and flow from quarter-to-quarter in that but our acquisition efforts continue to help us reduce concentrations pretty much throughout the portfolio.
And we have made continuous progress in that over time.
If you look back say five years ago to 2008 our top 15 tenants accounted for 54.3% of our business of our revenue and today that’s 43.5%.
Relative to occupancy we ended the quarter at 98.2% with 68 properties available for lease out of the 3 681 we own that occupancy is up 50 basis points from the first quarter and up 90 basis points from the same quarter a year ago and really is a function of very good progress on leasing during the quarter.
And I would say looking forward here in the third quarter we think occupancy should remain at this level or perhaps up a bit more and overall occupancy is very strong.
We reported occupancy this way for very long time which is taking vacant buildings against those that are occupied to figure those numbers.
There is another way to do it.
We can do it by vacant square footage and divided by total square footage that would give you occupancy of 90% or the third way is to take previous rent on vacant properties and divide that by the sum of that number and the rent on occupied properties and if you use that methodology vacancy is only 0.9% and occupancy 99.1%.
So each obviously of the three methodologies indicates very good occupancy.
Same-store rents on the portfolio increased 1.1% during the second quarter and 1.3% year-to-date.
As you recall during last year same-store rent was just modestly positive for the year so getting back up to a run rate of 1% plus is pretty good.
And I think a good rate for the portfolio and we think that will continue over the next few quarters.
Diversification of the portfolio continues to widened we are up to 3 681 properties we have 194 tents we’re in 46 industries and 49 states around the country.
I think industry exposures are well diversified given we have 46 industries and the concentrations on the major ones continue to come down a bit and this has been going on really for the last few years.
Our largest industry right now is convenient stores that’s at a 11.4% that’s down 60 basis points from last quarter and 550 basis points from a year ago that was once closed to 20% of the portfolio and so getting it down and inside 10% is something we want to do.
Restaurants if you were to combine both categories casual dining and quick service we now have down to 9.9% or below 10 that’s down 60 basis points from last quarter and 390 basis points from a year ago and I’ll note that was once 22% of revenue.
We then jumped to drug stores at 6.9% theatres at 6.3% and health and fitness and transportation at 5.9% and then dollar scores at 5.6% and all of the other industry categories that we have are under 4%.
So I think pretty good shape and keeping an eye on concentrations by industry.
I think that’s true also from a tenant standpoint.
Our top three tenants number one is FedEx at 4.3% that’s down 40 basis points from last quarter.
L.A.
Fitness is at 4.5% Walgreens which we have been adding to the portfolio is at 4.1% that’s up about a 120 basis points and every other tenant we have is below 3.5% and when you get to the 15<sup>th</sup> largest tenant which is Wal-Mart Sam’s Club.
You are looking really only to about 1.7% of revenue and it goes down from there.
So certainly well diversified from a tenant and we also think geographic standpoint.
Average remaining lease term remains very positive at a 11 years and overall we are really pleased with the portfolio and it’s generating very consistent income with very high occupancy.
Relative to portfolio dispositions.
We continue to sell some properties out of the portfolio during the quarter.
The goal obviously is further strengthening the credit quality the portfolio and doing that by reducing exposures to industry and tenants and properties where we think they might be particularly sensitive to reduce economic activity or a slowdown in the economy.
We are also maybe with tenants whose balance sheets are significantly levered and might be impacted by higher interest rates and that has been a theme for us for a while.
Paul mentioned during the quarter we sold 17 properties for $23 million.
For the year it’s 34 properties with $83 million.
For those that are on the call on a regular basis you will recall that our goal was over a $100 million and perhaps up to a $125 million and sales will have been flow on a quarter-by-quarter basis but $100 million plus is definitely where we are heading and where most of the way they are now and we may up that estimate in the coming quarters and do some additional dispositions above and beyond that.
And once again the sales primarily during the quarter we are in the restaurant industry which we continue to reduce and the child daycare industry and both are targeted we would like to sell off some properties in those area.
I think overall we are very pleased with the operations of the portfolio and have made good progress.
Let me move over to property acquisition for a moment.
As I’ve said virtually every quarter forever but it’s a good remainder acquisitions can be quite lumpy quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year and a challenge to predict certainly by the quarter and that continues to be the case.
In the second quarter we were very active on the acquisitions front and pleased with the really high level of activity in acquisitions.
We acquired $738 million in properties invested in a 190 different properties and that is the most accusative quarter for property level acquisition in the company’s history and average cash on cash cap rates were at 6.8% kept nice along lease terms and the acquisitions at 14 years and also 70% of the properties acquired during the quarter were leased to investment grade tenants as most of you know that has been one of our focuses.
Also good diversity they released a 19 different tenants in 16 industries with the most significant industries represented were in drug stores wholesale clubs and in convenient stores and well diversified geographically in 32 states and 90% of the acquisitions during the quarter were in our traditional retail properties that gets us for the first six months of the year then to $867 million that we invested in 206 properties.
Cap rates there 7% and long-term leases again at 14 years and about 61% of the acquisitions leased to investment grade tenant.
That’s obviously well above at 860 excuse me $867 million our initial full year 2013 guidance of $550 million.
Couple of weeks ago we’ve bumped that guidance up in excess of $1 billion and given really some transactions that have come to fruition in the last few days yesterday in the release we changed that to $1.25 billion and very very pleased with that process but we think a good share of him as we get now later in the year we’ll close towards the end of the third and fourth quarter that’s fairly typical.
And so the impact to 2013 numbers maybe modest depending on when the closings actually happened but obviously very accretive to the 2014 numbers and that $1.25 billion will be in addition to the $3.2 billion acquisition of ARCT that we did in the first quarter.
Looking at transaction flow I talked about it being very very robust last quarter and it’s really been a record amount of flow that has come into the market substantially.
During first six months of the year we’ve sourced about $20 billion in acquisition opportunities that have come through the door and $15 billion of that alone came in the door during the second quarter.
To put that in perspective that’s more in sourced acquisition opportunities year to-date then we’ve ever seen in a full calendar year.
Last year was very heavy year for acquisition opportunities at $17 billion.
The year before was $13 billion and previous to that it had never really exceeded much over $5 billion so the $15 billion during the quarter and $20 billion year to-date represents really just a stunning level of opportunities that were out there in the market place with people bringing properties out for sale.
A number of those as some people have probably noticed we’re large portfolio entity level acquisition opportunities but also there were a lot of very small kind of granular individual property opportunities that came to market during the quarter so it remain very active.
I think we remained very selective in the acquisitions and have been trying to pursue only those things that match where we are trying to take the portfolio strategically and we continue to look at few of the acquisition opportunities that came into the second quarter but have elected not to pursue the vast majority of them.
And again number of the transactions for us had issues relative to the industries the tenants were in and who the consumers are also with pricing and structure.
And I think it’s generally been the case then in the large portfolio unless the overwhelming vast majority of the properties fit the invest strategy will likely elect to pass on them and not pursue growth just for gross purposes but overall obviously very pleased with acquisition volume and also very pleased that in past years and we had some descent size acquisitions go through this quarter that just as I said a moment ago a lot of the acquisitions have been property by property and smaller organic level transactions and really allowed us to make some good progress with the portfolio.
Let me talk to pricing and cap rates which I think is really interesting.
Cap rates have ticked up a bit over the last six weeks or so as we saw movement in rates in the capital markets.
Cap rates started moving and at the same time and probably seen about a 25 basis point move up in cap rates overall just in the last six weeks or so.
And historically that does not usually happened this fast and usually it takes longer for cap rates to adjust movements in the capital markets and sometimes they may even lag by six to 12 months.
And in the recent kind of movement in the capital markets things seem a bit different this time and put some thought to it and I think the reason that the cap rates started to moving quicker this time is that more and more of the acquirers in the net lease business now are institutional buyers such as ourselves certainly then was the case in the past.
And I think our business historically has been dominated by a very large group of one-off transactions primarily driven by individual investors that had a big impact on the pricing in the market and that’s flip-flopped a bit as more institutional buyers have emerged and it’s a smaller group albeit of large players that seem to be impact the pricing.
So really a movement in the cap rates stands by a few larger buyers I think like can adjust cap rates a bit faster than what we’ve traditionally seen in the net lease market for a very long time and I think that’s been the case here.
In the market right now investment grade properties – properties leased to investment grade tenants cap rates have moved kind of in the 6.25% up to 7.25% certainly up 25 basis points maybe a few basis points more and I think the same thing with non-investment grade cap rates which were in the 7.25% to 8.25% range also up 25 basis points and again that’s just really over the last five six weeks or so and normally I’d wonder about that and wonder if its anecdotal but given the flow and the volume of activity that we see and that we’re working on I think it’s pretty representative of what’s going out happening in the market.
So caps moving up with capital cost this quickly as unusual but obviously we’re pleased by that.
Looking at spreads our investment spreads remained very healthy in the second quarter as I mentioned a minute ago invested $866.5 million at a 7 cap rate.
We financed basically almost all of that recently with the 10 year unsecured bond offering that Paul talked about with a 4 6 5 coupon so a spread of little over 230 basis points which is excellent and that’s pretty much everything that we’ve done year-to-date.
And as we frequently discuss when we talk about spreads historically we’ve looked at our spreads first relative to a nominal cost of equity which is taking a forward FFO yield dividing it by the price of the stock and then grossing it up for issuance cost.
And if you look back over the last 20 years that spread over a nominal cost of equity is averaged about a 112 basis points and I had mentioned that during the last 20 years the vast majority of the time we were acquiring properties leased to less than investment grade tenants.
And if you look today with well over half of the acquisitions little over 60% going to investment grade tenants cap rates for the first six months were at 7% and that nets you about a 130 basis point spread to the nominal cost of capital if you calculated it where we are today.
And that’s a good 20 basis points over the 20 year historical average.
So in a little a bit but still quite healthy and then relative to what we did in the quarters obviously spreads are higher using debt issuance.
So I think we still like the spreads relative to what we’ve achieved historically out there when most of our acquisitions were less than investment grade and today the majority are investment grade and obviously on the spread fund caps – cap rates ticking up a bit is helpful.
Relative to the volume and what we’re looking at going forward we feel it is still a very robust market with a lot of product to look at we’d be very surprised to see the volume of opportunities in the third and fourth quarters that we saw in the second quarter the $15 billion again was pretty exceptional.
But going forward there is still very active flow and we expect our activity there to remain pretty robust remainder of the year but likely as always continue to be lumpy but we’re very optimistic we’ll have a banner year.
You noticed in the release we moved the estimate as I mentioned to $1.25 billion we’re highly confident on that and then we’ll see if we can make some additional progress for the remainder of the year very positive on acquisitions.
Let me just get back to the portfolio for a second and all this acquisition activity obviously has had a big impact on the financials revenue earnings and dividend which is apparent the number is here.
But it’s also had a material impact on the makeup of our portfolio and where we’re trying to move it up to credit curve and we continue to make good progress on that.
The percentage of our revenue during the quarter that is generated by investment grade tenants was up to 38.2% for the quarter that’s up 240 basis points over the first quarter and I just to update a few numbers here that I went through in the first quarter and I think it’s helpful to do.
Over the last 36 months or so we’ve acquired about $6.6 billion in property about $4.5 billion of that is in retail which is traditional for us and sectors that we think will continue to perform well if we get a tough retail environment goes on.
And then $2.1 billion we’ve acquired in areas outside of retail almost all investment grade that we think will do well for us.
Out of that $6.6 billion $4.1 billion or 62% has been with investment grade tenants and a good part; I think of the balance of the acquisitions will amount our investment grades certainly are further up the credit curve than we had averaged in the portfolio just a few years ago.
Some other interesting numbers and I’ll track this back over the last five years from 2008 as I mentioned earlier in 2008 the top 15 tenants did 54.3% of our business if you look at their average DAR score and as a lot of you know that’s the credit score internally we use that approximates the credit score somewhere to what the rating agencies do.
The DAR score on average for the top 15 tenants was a 6.92 which equates to about a BB minus credit rating and in 2008 none of the top 15 tenants had investment grade ratings.
Today the top 15 do 43.5% of the revenue that average DAR score is now 11.78 which approximates to about a really BBB that closer to a BBB plus credit rating that’s up substantially and eight of the top 15 tenants now carry investment grade ratings.
So if you look at really in the last for the top 15 4.5 years percentage of revenue from 54% to 43% the DAR score from 6.92 to 11.78 and then from zero to eight of the top 15 tenants with investment grade ratings and so pretty pleased with – with those trends.
At a couple of the industry meetings lately and I’ve alluded to this on the call there is another way to look at the adjustments I’ll spend a minute on and if you go back two years ago from right now in July of 2011 we went back and re-underwrote our largest tenants we did that for 67 tenants that produced 83% of our revenue and really did that using 19 different metrics to try and assess the risks that they might represent to our revenue stream in a rising interest rate environment or a weak economy and it included rankings on each industry based on that industry and how it operates just margins and the consumer that really they serve an analysis of concentrations balance sheet and income statement analysis and then a pretty heavy sensitivity analysis where we stress tested them moving their revenue and their margins and then their sensitivity to interest rates on refinance and their balance sheets.
And based on that if you took the portfolio at least the 67 tenants that did 83% of our revenues we broke them up into four categories and I’ll do and one is green which is strong buy one is yellow which is buy red which hold black what you sell.
And back in 2011 tenants representing about 22.8% of our revenue were in the green strong buy category 21.4% in the yellow or buy category about 15.9% in that red or hold category and then 22.9% in the black or sell.
And again they represented about 83% of our revenue.
Pretty much two years here exactly we just recently updated that and given the pretty robust acquisition and disposition activity we now do that each quarter and it represents a 121 tenants that do 88.1% of our revenue but if you look at the breakdown today the green or strong buy category tenants in that category have moved from 22.8% of our revenue in 2011 to today over 45.1%.
In the yellow and buy its gone from 21.4% to down a bit 18.4% in the red from 15.9% to 15.8% but most importantly in the black or sell category which was 22.9% of our revenue in 2011 it is now 8.8% of the revenue.
So substantial and I think material progress in moving the portfolio to some degree would dispositions obviously to a lesser extent but certainly with all the acquisitions we’ve done it had a pretty material impact.
Let’s move to the capital side for a minute you know I mentioned that we’ve bought about $6.6 billion over the last three years I think how that’s been capitalized is important I’ll run through the numbers.
We’ve issued about $1.8 billion of long-term notes or bonds at very good rates.
We’ve assumed on some larger transactions about $793 million in mortgage debt.
We also generated about a $178 million from property sales and then $409 million in perpetual preferred offerings but most importantly in the last three years we’d issued equity six times during the period equivalent to about $3.7 billion.
So that’s about $6.8 billion in capital total over $4 billion of it was common and preferred and of the remaining none of the capital is variable rate most all of it long-term and I think that puts us in pretty good shape relative to if we see a further rising interest rate environment and as those of you who were on the calls know preparing for a rising rate has been a theme for us on the calls in the last three years relative to capital issuance and trying to grow up the curve.
And I think we’ve been able to do this while moving the needle pretty well on FFO and dividends.
Let me finish off with just a few relative access to capital now as Paul mentioned we’re in good shape plenty of dry powder and no balance on the line and even with the tenure moving up we have accessed to capital at good rates and more importantly good spreads on the acquisitions.
Earnings for the quarter as Paul mentioned we’re very strong so let me just move on to guidance.
We made the adjustments a couple of weeks ago to a $1 billion and then as I have said a couple of times up to a $1.25 billion however on earnings guidance we did not change I mean we did a couple of weeks ago and that is now 237 to 243 on normalized FFO and at 17% to 20% growth and on AFFO 235 to 241 or 14% to 17% growth.
And even though we think acquisitions will now be larger than expect as we left the guidance where we took it a couple of weeks ago.
I noticed in some of the research notes this morning there were some question on that.
So let me – take a moment and kind of go through the thoughts there.
we just up the guidance a couple of weeks ago by a nickel on both FFO AFFO and it was really just some transactions coming together in the last couple of days that really made this confident to move the acquisition’s guidance too $1.25 billion and that again causes us to be very confident on current guidance.
But I think there is some – variables or levers in the business I’d like to maintain some optionality on for now rather than moving guidance up further.
One is the timing of the closings and how that’s going to impact numbers obviously sooner creates a little more FFO on the 2013 numbers than later and as we get here later in the years the acquisitions have less impact.
And then next trying to discern what if any volume there is going to be above and beyond that.
And I think that will lay itself out over the next couple of months or so.
Next is – what are permanent capital costs given the volatility lately we liked to hedge that a bit and so we’ve done that.
And then I think also one of the levers we’d like to keep is whether or not we expand the disposition level a bit over the $100 million to $125 million level and we may do that.
And then finally I think it comes down to trying to assess what type of capital we would use next do we use equity or something else and those would have different impacts on the numbers different share count.
And – and then really it’s just you know trying to maintain some optionality primarily on capital and dispositions.
So we will revisit it down the road we don’t want to get too far ahead on the numbers at least for right now but obviously the growth numbers and the guidance having recently up to the very positive.
Finally I’ll end with our for our shareholders who were primarily – who’s primary focus is dividends which as you know is a great deal of them Paul mentioned dividends paid were up 24.5% quarter-over-quarter we’ve increased to three times this year and we remain optimistic that our activities will support continued increases in the dividend.
Want to thank you for your patience with an active quarter.
And Sheryl if you’ll come back we’ll now open it up for questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
I just had a quick question with regards to your capacity from a balance sheet perspective.
How much could you debt fund out for you’d be a bit uncomfortable with your leverage ratio? And I guess the second question what I’ve got the floor is just what are your views on acquiring assets with lease terms below 10 years what sort of cap rate spreads which you have to see relative to your traditional focal point? Well from an overall leverage standpoint Juan we historically have run kind of in the – I’ll give a broad range for a second 20% to 35% leverage range 5% to 15% preferred when I referred to 35% debt and 15% preferred I’m referring to maximum that we’re comfortable with relative to that.
So today debts around 30% preferreds around 5% we obviously do have capacity in both buckets and certainly stayed in concert with issuing equity as well.
We would continue to have capacity in those buckets but we view maximum levels of kind of a 35% debt 15% preferred.
And actually preferred that they be more in the 25% debt level and in the 5% to 10% preferred level.
So we have an all phrase we use internally which is go equity first so to the extent that common equity is well priced and accretive that’s something we would – always keep our eye on as something we’d be more likely to take a look at before we looked at the fixed income side.
On the second question Juan relative to shorter leases it has been very very very rare for us to go much inside 10 years the only time I can remember is when we bought a large portfolio on just a couple of three four five of the properties would be inside of that.
We’re really trying to go longer up in the 14 15 16 18 20 to keep the lease duration on the portfolio long and allow the revenue to be very stable.
When you’re in the net lease market and you’re out there selling properties if you’re lease linked is 10 years or longer generally the cap rate will command we’ll be much much better than when it moves inside 10 years and as you get shorter down in the 6 5 4 cap rates rise pretty dramatically.
And that’s generally a function of released risk that is hard to tell on a lot of net lease assets.
And when you’re out buying shorter-term leases generally those aren’t generated in a direct transaction with a retailer or a large corporate tenant generally you’re buying those out from another owner in the open market.
And if you didn’t underwrite them to yourselves you may not have cash flow coverages or the profitability the individual stores that you’re buying and that’s makes it difficult to assess the risk of whether the tenant will re-lease certainly in the case of retail and you want to make sure you have that and if you didn’t have it then the cap rates going to rise because of the uncertainty relative to rollover.
So you’d really have to be assessing what you paid per square foot and what the rent is per square foot and what you think the market would be but generally those command much higher cap rates and it’s very rare our strong strong prejudice is not to go into that game.
We’ve looked at that business may be 15 times over the last 20 years but really found it difficult to underwrite.
So generally we’re looking up in the 12 13 15 to 20 year lease when we’re – acquiring properties.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of R.J.
Milligan with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys good afternoon and good evening.
Hey R.J.
Just curious Tom what – the volume – the $15 billion in the second quarter is that – was that a reaction to the tenure moving or was there something else driving that surge in volume? Yes.
And that was really pre the temper tantrum as somebody said at the other day and the movement in the tenure because most of that that hit the market came in middle earlier the quarter and also came of course was structured before that in the decision to bring it to the market generally is a few months before that.
And it’s a couple of things going on one is is just there has been a growing knowledge of net lease sale and leaseback and I think that’s a function of a lot of the talk in the fourth quarter and the first quarter with bankers out calling on really Fortune 500 and – every tenant they have or every company they have about using the real estate take it up balance sheet.
So just a wider knowledge of using sales and leaseback is part of the capital structure by corporations.
I think also there is just been a lot of potential M&amp;A transactions a number of those had been noted in the press and those came to market and I think it was also representative the companies are figuring out the rates are pretty good and it might be a good time to do it if you’re going to couple with some of the private REITs or fund business that is really the part of the cycle where they need to come to market and the confluence evolve so one time led to a lot coming on the market very quickly.
A lot of that will get done got done some of it won’t and then when the tenure moved you saw the – saw cap rates move a bit.
But it was just a heavy quarter and it was all of those things coming together and I don’t think we’re going to see that this quarter and next quarter but the volume still remains very elevated over where it was a couple of years ago.
So it’s slowed since the middle of May or… Yes I mean $15 billion is a ridiculous number.
But if you go back again two three years ago I think $5 billion a year was the number and it’s certainly running way the heck ahead of that.
It’s still very strong.
We saw $5 billion in the first quarter and assume you want to hazard a guess so what you think we’ll see in the third and fourth… Subset of the $5 billion for the remainder of the year.
Yeah okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Pong with Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Hey Jonathan.
(inaudible) thoughts as you look at the potential large portfolio deals you have done on the publicly traded side and the non-traded side that might need a liquidity event over the next year or so.
What says your appetite right now for those kinds of deals and all of equal and tenant quality lease duration which says that the yields probably need to see between the portfolio deal and one-off deals that would make you more constructive in pursuing those? Yes it’s really interesting – that’s an interesting question.
Let me comment it a few ways.
I said in last quarter’s call something very strange in the business right now is because of the additional institutional buyers.
Traditionally if you had a large portfolio transaction the cap rate on that would be higher than a one-off really rewarding the person for putting out a lot of capital in one fell swoop and starting about a year ago that all reversed as you had a number of institutional buyers who were trying to put capital out and had raised funds and had difficulty putting it out and a one-off transaction would move the needlework for them.
So it’s only time in and then came in at $75 million or $100 million $200 million $300 million all of a sudden there were a lot of people looking at it and so cap rates really inverted where those were going trading inside a one-off of the same tenant.
So that’s unusual as long as I’ve been in the business but I think still where we are.
And so if I – I said earlier that investment grade cap rates worth 6 in a quarter and 7 a quarter rate I think a large transaction would fit in bidding that and same thing in a less than investment grade.
And relative to us looking at them we’d love to do it.
We’re more than happy to do it but one of the terms brought up here recently is given all the volume that came to market the odds were good but the goods were also odd.
So when you start looking at the quality of portfolio we’re trying to move more investment grade and there was a number of the things that came to market that were not and some that didn’t had a makeup in the portfolio.
They didn’t fit some other characteristics rather the industry who want to be in.
And so we’re really going to limit what we do on those unless the vast majority of the properties I said earlier kind of fit.
But with that said we’re open to it.
There is some floating out there and we’ll have to watch where they are.
I guess if I look further out into that pipeline that M&amp;A pipeline are you thinking of deals that might come to market that you are sort of holding off or are you sort of taking a more short-term view? Yeah no I mean we’re just taking them as we come.
As I said we’re really happy Sumit Roy who is running acquisitions and John Case our Chief Investment Officer kind of took our acquisition group and split them up into different areas earlier in the year.
And we’re very happy with kind of the granular one-offs that we’re able to bring in much more than in the past.
And that’s really led from the reliance I think for us on larger transactions but we’re pretty happy with the volumes coming in.
So we don’t feel compelled to go out and grab them.
But we’re more trying to watch what’s really steaming up out there and what would fit.
And then when those come wanting to make sure that we pursue them fairly aggressively and on the other ones not a high level of interest if it doesn’t fit where we’re trying to take the portfolio.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi Tom since it’s a big number in Q2 that $15 billion that came in is that absolutely everything that’s being marketed or is that has been screened through you guys and then from there you break it down to see if it fits your long-term lease profile? Yeah I’m sure that there were sort of things that we didn’t see particularly smaller but those are all of the things that came in the door that would reasonably be assumed that they would fit into categories that we would buy.
And then we started screening and from there what happens is the acquisition group and they all have financial backgrounds do the initial screening understanding our objectives.
And they can start throwing things out pretty quick with just a day or two looking at them and trying to be more selective with what we then released and it goes over to research the financial analysis are done and we get deep into it and then goes to the investment committee from there.
So that is the all-in kind of number of everything we see that is net lease that Realty Income would look at the category look at the type of tenant that comes in the door.
And is it reasonable to assume that that could be a long runway for you guys its stuff you are looking at in Q2 could still be closing in Q4 and Q1 of next year should this really provide a pretty visible runway for acquisitions? Sumit why don’t you take that? Sure.
Most of the $15 billion that we referenced we’ve decided to pass on.
Some of them we’ve already found out who the eventual buyer is.
Some of it is still going through the process and I’m sure the eventual buyer will emerge over the next couple of quarters.
But none of those $15 billion that we’ve referenced are portfolios that we’ve decided to pursue outside of the ones that we’ve either pursued or is in the pipeline to close and that’s a very very small percentage less than 5%.
Yes.
And the comfort level for the $1.25 billion is really taking those and the ones that we pursued and we are going to get and kind of looking at the timing and closing and that’s how we kind of jump from the $866 to $1.25.
And there is a few exceptions but then you really want to start thinking that anything additional will come from what we’re looking at right now not what we look at last quarter.
And that’s helpful.
And then Tom you referenced the cap rate movement up about 25 basis points in the last six weeks.
Is it fair to say that that was more on the low investment grade and that investment grade cap rates a little more sticky.
No actually we believe they both moved.
We’ve seen a lot of volume in it and that was the major point of our discussion a few days ago sitting there just parsing everything coming in the door.
So we’ve seen it across the board.
Okay.
And then Paul you get pretty good color on how you are dealing the preferreds and it sounds like the preferreds at the bottom half of your range or what should expect maybe 5% to 10%.
Can you just kind of go under what the current market pricing is for preferreds and tenant of your philosophy of convertible preferred would be considered? The as you know the preferred pricing widened over the last 45 days or so with the moving interest rates may be even more so than bonds.
It kind of made a big jump and it’s taken a while for that to settle down.
Current pricing for us would be in the 6.5% range call it from a coupon perspective.
We suspect that will continue to tighten as things settle a bit in that preferred market and there is some demand on the horizon in that market but not at a level that it makes sense so for example to issue and takeout our existing preferred or that sort of thing but it is a bucket that we have capacity for and its reasonably priced and of course has a great maturity date if you will.
So it matches up well in our balance sheet for long-term assets and not matching with long-term liabilities.
Convertible preferred is something we are open minded about.
I think it would need to be done in concert with a larger strategic entity level type situation where an equity element would be something to be considered.
But as a normal ongoing corporate finance product in the balance sheet it’s not really how we choose to match fund our assets and not how we chose demand into the equity side of the balance sheet but it’s something we listen to.
We’re open minded about and are knowledgeable about and we’d never say never but it’s not something we look to in the near term or as a regular course of financing.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes the Q&amp;A portion of Realty Income’s conference call.
I’ll now turn the call over to Tom Lewis for concluding remarks.
Great.
Well again thank you everybody for your patience.
It was a very active quarter and we really appreciate you taking the time with us and with Sheryl I want to thank you for your help there and this will conclude my part of the call.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Realty Income second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
If you would like to listen to a replay of today’s conference please dial 303-590-3030 or 1800-406-7325 with the access code 4628874.
We thank you for your participation.
And at this time you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a remainder this call is being recorded October 31 2013.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Terry Miller Vice President of Investor Relations for Realty Income.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Craig and thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income’s third quarter operating results conference call.
Discussing our third quarter results will be John Case Chief Executive Officer; Paul Meurer Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; Sumit Roy Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us on the call are Gary Malino President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Pfeiffer our Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
During this conference call we’ll make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The Company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We’ll disclose in greater detail the factors that may cause such differences in the Company’s Form 10-Q.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Case.
Thanks Terry.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call.
We are pleased with Company’s operating performance for the third quarter with solid results coming from our areas of the business.
Paul is going to start and review the financial numbers so I’m going to hand it over to Paul.
Paul? Thanks John.
So as usual I’m going to comment on our financial statements and provide a few highlights of our financial results for the quarter starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 70% for the quarter.
Our current revenue on an annualized basis is approximately $805 million.
This increase reflects positive same-store rents of 1.3% but more significantly it obviously reflects our growth in new acquisitions over the past year.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased significantly to almost $81 million in the quarter as depreciation expense has obviously increased with our portfolio growth.
Interest expense increased in the quarter to $49.7 million.
This increase was primarily due to the $800 million of bonds that were issued last October and the $750 million bond issuance in July as well as some credit facility borrowings during the quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remain strong with interest coverage at 3.5 times and fixed charge coverage at 2.9 times.
General and administrative expenses or G&amp;A in the third quarter was approximately $16.6 million.
Our G&amp;A expense has naturally increased this past year as our acquisition activity has increased and we did add some new personnel to manage a larger portfolio.
Our employee base has grown from 92 employees a year-ago to 114 employees at quarter end.
The other unique factor though in our third quarter G&amp;A was a $3.7 million non-cash expense related to the acceleration in July of our older 10 year stock brands to five year vesting.
Overall our total G&amp;A year-to-date as a percentage of total revenues was still only 7.3% compared to historically our G&amp;A at a run rate of about 7.5% to 8% of revenues.
Our current projection for G&amp;A for 2014 is about $50 million or less than 6% of revenues.
Property expenses were approximately $5.9 million for the quarter.
Our property expense estimate for all of 2013 is about $18 million.
And our projection for 2014 is $20 million.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the Company and they were $671 000 for the quarter.
Merger-related costs obviously this line item refers to the costs associated with the ARCT acquisition earlier in the year.
During the quarter we expensed $240 000 of such remaining costs.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $6.6 million.
This income is associated with our property sales activity during the quarter.
We sold 19 properties during the quarter for $22.4 million with a gain on sales of $6.2 million.
And a reminder that we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or in our AFFO.
Preferred stock cash dividends totaled approximately $10.5 million for the quarter and net income available to common stockholders was about $41 million for the quarter.
Turning to FFO and AFFO reminder that our normalized FFO simply add back the ARCT merger-related costs to FFO.
Normalized funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.59 for the quarter a 13.5% increase versus a year-ago.
It would have been $0.61 but it was reduced $0.02 by the non-cash expense for the accelerated stock vesting I already mentioned.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash that we have available for distribution as dividend was $0.60 for the quarter a 15.4% increase versus a year-ago.
We again increased our cash monthly dividend this quarter.
We have increased the dividend 64 consecutive quarters and 73 times overall since we went public over 19 years ago.
Dividends paid per common share increased 23% this quarter versus the same quarterly period a year-ago.
And our current monthly dividend now equates to a current annualized amount of just over $2.18 per share.
Our AFFO dividend payout ratio is currently about 89%.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet.
We’ve continued to maintain a conservative and very safe capital structure.
As you know in July we raised $750 million of new capital with a 10-year bond offering.
Earlier this month we did a $397 million common equity offering.
And just this week we closed on the accordion expansion of our acquisition credit facility for a new capacity of $1.5 billion.
We currently have about $100 million of borrowings on that line.
We do want to take a moment to say thank you to the investment banks and commercial lending partners who helped us access this capital over the past several months and we’re grateful to the bond and equity investors to continue to support us with their capital as we continue to grow as a Company.
We do not assume any in-place mortgages during the quarter so our outstanding mortgage debt has decreased to approximately $780 million.
As for debt maturities we have a $11 million of mortgages coming due in Q4 this year $64 million of mortgages due in 2014 and $125 million of mortgages in 2015 and our next bond maturity is only a $150 million due in November of 2015.
Our overall current total debt to total market cap is 30% and our preferred stock outstanding is only 4.5% of our capital structure.
And our debt to EBITDA today is currently only 5.8 times.
So in summary revenue growth this quarter was significant and our expenses remain moderate to our earnings grow was very positive and our overall balance sheet remains very healthy and safe and we do continue to enjoy excellent access to the public capital markets to fund our continued growth.
Now let me turn the call back over to John who will give you more background on these results.
Thanks Paul.
I'll begin with an overview of the portfolio which continues to generate consistent cash flow.
Our tenants are doing well and based on what we're seeing now we do not anticipate any issues in the foreseeable future.
We ended the third quarter with 98.1% occupancy based on the number of properties with 73 properties available for lease out of 3 866 properties.
Our occupancy is up from 97% one year ago.
Occupancy based on square footage is 98.9% and the economic occupancy is 99%.
Our occupancy remains stable and strong and we expect our occupancy at the end of the year to be in these areas so we're comfortable with where they are.
Same-store rents increased 1.3% during the quarter and year-to-date versus the same period last year.
We're pleased with this level of growth and think it will continue over the next few quarters and perhaps be even a touch higher.
At the end of the third quarter our 15 largest tenants accounted for 44.4% of our revenue.
That's down 2.4% from the same period one year ago.
However it's up about 1% from last quarter.
And as you know this number will ebb and flow from quarter-to-quarter but generally speaking our acquisitions efforts will continue to diversify our rental revenues.
We've continued to make progress on this over time.
If you look back to 2008 in the top 15 accounted for 54.3% of revenue and again today it's 44.4%.
We continued to diversify our overall portfolio again with 3 866 properties lead to 200 commercial enterprises and 47 different industries across 49 states plus Puerto Rico.
We remain well diversified by industry no industry accounts were more than 11.2% of our revenue.
Convenient stores are our largest industry at 11.2% and that's down 5.1% from a year ago.
Drug stores are now at 9.3% up 5.8% from a year ago.
Restaurants if you combine both the casual dining segment and the quick service segment are now at 9.2% of our revenues down 4% from a year ago.
As you may recall in early 2008 restaurants were approximately 24% of our revenues.
Dollar stores are now at 6.3% up 3.3% from a year ago.
Health and fitness is at 6.1% of revenues virtually unchanged from a year ago.
Theaters are at 5.9% down 3.6% from a year ago.
And finally transportation services are 5.3% up 2.8% from a year ago.
All other industry categories are below 4.5% of revenue.
So we're in good shape keeping our revenues diversified by industry.
Looking at individual tenants our largest tenant remains FedEx at 5.1% of revenues; Walgreen and Family Dollar are second and third largest tenants at 5% and 4.9% of revenue respectively.
Walgreen is up by about 1% from last year and Family Dollar is up by about 1.5% from last quarter.
L.A.
Fitness is now at 4.2% which is down 30 basis points from last quarter.
All other tenants are at or below 3.1% of overall revenues.
When you go down to our 15th largest tenant which is Walmart and Sam's Club it represents only 1.6% of revenue.
If you move another five spots and go to our 20th largest tenant it represents just 1.3% of revenue.
So we're still very well diversified by tenant.
The credit quality of the portfolio continues to improve with about 40% of our revenue generated from investment grade tenants.
This is up about 1.5% from the last quarter and 19% from quarter end 2012.
In terms of our top 15 tenants about 26% of that is generated from eight investment grade tenants.
As recently as 2010 there was only one investment grade tenant in our top 15 and that tenant generated just over 5% of revenue.
So we remain comfortable having a significant portion of our rental revenues coming from high credit tenants.
In terms of lease length the average remaining lease term is just under 11 years at 10.9 years.
Relative to property dispositions we continue selling select properties to further strength the portfolio.
During the quarter we sold 19 properties for $22.4 million which brings us to 53 properties sold for the year for $106.1 million.
The sales this quarter were primarily in the restaurant child daycare and convenient store and the streets.
For the year we're looking at approximately 125 million in properties dispositions.
Moving on to property acquisitions.
During our third quarter we completed approximately 503 million in property level investments at a yield of 7.1%.
This gets us to 1.37 billion for the first nine months of the year excluding the $3.2 billion acquisition of ARCT that closed in January of this year.
So we are raising our acquisitions guidance for 2013 to approximately 1.5 billion from the previously leased 1.25 billion.
We're quite pleased with the continued momentum we're seeing on the acquisitions front and now I'd like to hand it over to Sumit Roy our recently appointed Chief Investment Officer who's headed acquisitions for about a year now to discuss acquisitions.
Sumit? Thank you John.
We remained active on the acquisition front.
During the third quarter we made 502.7 million in property level investments in 219 properties at an average initial cash yield of 7.1% with a weighted average lease term of 14.7 years.
72% of the revenue generated by these acquisitions is from investment grade tenants.
These assets are leased to 20 different tenants in 15 different industries.
Four other tenants are new to our portfolio and most significant industries represented with discount store drug stores and health and fitness.
The properties are located in 33 states.
81% of the investments are comprised of our traditional retail properties.
We were successful in accelerating the closing on a number of transactions in the third quarter and were pleased with the activity this quarter.
Through third quarter 2013 as John mentioned we've invested 1.37 billion in 407 properties at an average initial cap rate of 7% and lease term of 14.1 years.
65% of total rent was generated by investment grade tenants.
These assets are leased to 35 different tenants in 21 different industries.
The properties are located in 40 states.
84% of the investments are comprised of our traditional retail properties.
Including ARCT year-to-date we have invested approximately $4.5 billion in total investments.
Regarding our outlook.
Given our current pipeline for the remaining quarter and as John has mentioned we now think 2013 acquisitions will pencil in at approximately 1.5 billion for the year versus our last guidance of at least 1.25 billion.
The 1.5 billion in forecasted acquisitions is an addition to the 3.2 billion in acquisitions of ARCT during the first quarter.
On transaction flow we continue the theme of seeing a record amount of transaction flow this year.
We sourced 37 billion in acquisition opportunities through the third quarter 17 billion of which was sourced in the third quarter alone.
To put it in perspective the 17 billion sourced in the third quarter is equal to the volume sourced in all of 2012 which was a record year of sourcing for us.
The volume of opportunities were primarily driven by large portfolios and entity level transactions as compared to one-off transactions.
We have remained very selective in our acquisitions and are pursuing only those that match what we are trying to do strategically with the portfolio.
We continue to analyze a number of these sourced opportunities but have ceased to pursue a majority of these transactions that came in third quarter.
In a large portfolio unless the vast majority of the properties fit our investment strategy we will elect to pass.
Overall we are pleased with the acquisitions volume and a lot of it has been smaller organic relationship driven property transactions that offer superior risk adjusted returns and fit where we’re trying to go with the portfolio.
As to pricing cap rates has stabilized at the levels where they were at the end of the second quarter.
Still a lot of capital perusing transactions.
Investment grade property cap rates range from 6.25% to 7.25%.
Non-investment grade properties are trading from 7.25% to 8.25% cap rates.
Looking at spreads third quarter investment spreads remained healthy.
We invested $502.7 million at a 7.1% cap rate.
As we have frequently discussed we look at our investment spreads relative to a nominal cost of equity and that has averaged 111 bps over the last 20 years with most of that leased to non-investment grade tenants.
With over 72% of acquisitions investment grade our cap rate of 7.1% represents a spread of approximately 110 bps to our current nominal cost of equity.
We like the ability to continue to upgrade the tenant credit quality and yet remain close to our historical average spread.
So in conclusion we continue to see an exceptional level of volume in the sector and have been pleased with our $1.37 billion in acquisitions to date including ARCT we’ve closed $4.5 billion in acquisitions.
John? Thanks Sumit.
Obviously we’re pleased with the acquisitions we closed this quarter and our level of activity and we expect acquisitions to remain active for us for this foreseeable future.
Yeah acquisitions also continues to be the primary driver of our revenue earnings and dividend growth.
We are pleased with our earnings in the third quarter our growth in normalized FFO per share is 13.5% versus the third quarter of 2012 and our growth in AFFO per share is 15.4% versus the third quarter of 2012.
As Paul mentioned our balance sheet and access to capital remain strong so we have plenty of flexibility to pursue acquisitions.
Just last week we completed our second largest equity offering in the history of the company by raising $378 million in net proceeds.
We used the proceeds to repay borrowings under our credit facility to permanently and accretively finance third quarter acquisitions activity.
Additionally you may have seen two days ago we announced the expansion of our credit facility from $1 billion to $1.5 billion by exercising the in-place $500 million accordion feature that Paul spoke to a few minutes ago.
Given the level of acquisitions activity we had been experiencing we like the additional flexibility to $1.5 billion capacity gives us.
We currently have $1.4 billion in available credit capacity on our facility.
Relative to the earnings guidance for this year we’ve tightened our range for FFO and raised and tightened our range for AFFO.
We now expect normalized FFO per share to be $2.38 to $2.42 for the year which represents 18% to 20% FFO per share growth.
We also adjusted our AFFO per share to $2.38 to $2.42 which represents 16% to 17% AFFO per share growth.
AFFO continues to be a primary focus of ours as it does represent the recurring cash flow from which we pay dividends.
We’ve also established earnings guidance for 2014 with normalized FFO estimated to be $2.53 to $2.58 per share which represents 5% to 8% FFO per share growth over the 2013 estimated range.
AFFO is estimated to be $2.53 to $2.58 per share as well which represents again 5% to 8% AFFO per share growth.
Regarding dividends we remain optimistic that our activities will continue to support our ability to increase the dividend.
Last month we announced the 73<sup>rd</sup> dividend increase since the company went public in 1994.
This brings the annualized dividend amount to just over $2.18 per share.
Our dividends paid year-to-date have increased just under 22% over the same period last year.
Our payout ratio is currently at about 89% of our AFFO which is a level we are comfortable with.
And finally I’d be remiss if I did not note that this is our Company’s first earnings call since our former CEO Tom Lewis announced his retirement.
I want to take a moment to thank Tom for leading the Company as CEO for over 16 years and helping produce outstanding results for our shareholders.
So Tom if you’re listening out there.
Thanks.
With that I’d like to open it up for questions.
Craig.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question does come from the line of Daniel Donlan with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Hi Dan.
Hi Dan.
A couple of questions here on the office that you guys acquired in the quarter could you maybe tell us if that was kind of above that 7.1% cash cap rate range or was it above it or where did this come in if possible? Yeah so on the office activity for the quarter which represented about 18% of the quarterly volume we’re not at liberty to discuss the exact economics there.
It was a situation where we invested in the office facilities that went out of our largest retail clients within investment grade rating.
They brought the opportunity to us and it was an attractive opportunity on an economic basis with the added benefit of enhancing our overall relationship with that tenant.
We’re not at liberty to discuss the economics related to the transaction there.
Sure understood.
And then just as far as of the third quarter activity was concerned how much was sourced directly from tenants or retailers versus market transactions? Yeah I’d say around 30% to 40% was directly sourced from relationships with tenants and other retailers and the rest was sourced either from private developers or private owners or through marketed transactions through the advisory and brokerage community.
Okay I appreciate the color there.
And then just two questions for Paul.
Paul it looks like your stock comp as a percentage of G&amp;A is kind of moving towards this 30% number.
I think previously it’d be kind of in the low-to-mid 20% range.
Should we expect that level of stock comp as a percentage of overall G&amp;A going forward? No.
I think this year you’re seeing two events.
One was the July acceleration relative to the old 10 year vesting converting to the 5 year which is our stock best now for all outstanding old 10 year grants.
And then the other is the process of our transition at the executive suite level and as it relates to what would I would just describe a slight anomaly in the level of stock issuance this year now versus the run rate going forward.
Okay.
I guess given that your AFFO is equal to your FFO are you going to see then since you’ll probably going to have less stock comp next year are you going to see maybe a drop off then in CapEx versus what you recognized this year? That’s part of it.
The other thing you’re seeing in the AFFO calculation is a little bit more amortization related to above market leases in our FAS 141 work if you will.
So there’s offsetting factors there that historically we didn’t have in the portfolio whether it be assumed mortgages or assumed existing leases and the accounting related to them that created -- create differentials between FFO and AFFO.
In the past all we had was adding back amortization of financing cost of dot comp offset by straight line rent in CapEx.
As for CapEx specifically to answer your question we see a similar run rate for next year call it a $8 million projected number as it relates to 2013 as a whole and 2014 as a whole.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question does come from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Good afternoon guys.
I was just wondering for 2014 kind of what you're penciling in for acquisitions I don't think you touched on that in the prepared remarks and as well as on same-store rent growth? Sure.
We are expecting approximately 1 billion in acquisitions at roughly on the yields we are seeing today in the market so that's what we budgeted for 2014.
And with regard to same-store rents we think they'll continue around 1.3% or be perhaps a bit higher.
So those are the numbers we're using in our estimates for 2014.
Okay great.
In the acquisition pipelines you look at are you guys looking at all or interested going forward to looking at potential public transactions for publicly traded companies? We look at really everything that comes across our desk.
And I'd say that as the largest player in the sector and one of the more active players in the sector with a long successful history we believe we see most major opportunities whether it be at the property level property portfolio level or entity level.
So we'll consider all of that but it will need to meet our investment strategies.
So we've been as Sumit mentioned quite selective this year relative to the transactions we sourced and a lot of that is just remaining true to what we want to accomplish with the portfolio.
So we've passed on a number of opportunities obviously based on the source transactions and what we've done year-to-date.
And just one other quick question.
With regards to the payout ratio it seems like CapEx is going to be fairly stable but as we think of the portfolio longer term with a greater percentage of office and industrial versus your historical retail focus how should we think of CapEx as leases mature and kind of thinking about your payout ratio needing to retain presumably some CapEx to re-lease this space? Yes that's a good question and we're comfortable with it at 89% as I said but we would expect it to move into probably the mid 80s over time and that's primarily to accommodate a little bit more on the CapEx side associated with the non-retail properties.
Thank you very much.
Our next question does come from the line of Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions guys.
Hi Manny.
Maybe with the CEO transition could we discuss any potential changes in strategy or should we just expect status quo going forward? Yes.
I don't see any major changes in strategy.
We're going to remain careful and selective in our underwriting approach.
We'll maintain our conservative balance sheet philosophy and our focus will be on the income generation from which we pay dividends that we intend to increase over time.
The core team remains in place as you well know and Tom will continue as Vice Chairman of the Board and he's also serving as an executive advisor.
So we see a fair amount of him.
One thing I am looking at are our internal systems and staffing and making sure we're adequately structured for the anticipated growth we'll have in the future on those fronts so we could see a few changes on that front or some additions I should say.
But overall the successful philosophy we've implemented here over the last cycle will continue.
And then maybe we can go back to that point that you had made on G&amp;A earlier and that's – you're building up sort of staffing to deal with a larger portfolio.
Then you can staff [ph] it to what you guys did when you bought ARCT where you didn't bring any staff on board.
Can you help me kind of connect the dots and why didn't you bring any ARCT people on board if you're going to effectively higher and how do we think that's scalability going forward? I think the triple net model has always worked as one where you need kind of limited heads to make a model work and so how do we think about that? Yes.
Well our staffing our grown less than our overall portfolio has grown so the business remains scalable.
A lot of the staff being – we've added and we're considering adding is related to what we anticipate will be additional growth in the future.
We were able to take on the ARCT acquisition without bringing in any of their people and do it primarily in-house.
Historically our G&amp;A has run probably between 7.5% to 8% of revenues it's going to be just over 7% I think for this year.
We would expect that number to decline closer to 6% of revenues next year.
So you can see the impact of the scalability.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question does come from the line of Jonathan Pong with Robert W.
Baird.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Just like to dig in a little bit on the office asset topic and maybe just what you guys think about your exposure going forward.
You had about 6% today.
Are you thinking about doing just more of these strategic types of deals or could you see that percentage moving higher because you see attractive risk reward on a valuation basis for these assets? Yes.
With regard to office typically when we acquire office it's part of a broader portfolio of properties that we like that happens to have an office component.
There are a couple of exceptions to that.
One is if we find a facility that is associated with the retail operations of one of our major tenants and they asked us to take a lot at that we'll pursue that on a one-off basis.
But our real emphasis continues to be on retail as demonstrated by the completed acquisitions to-date as well as industrial and distribution leased investment grade tenants with tenants that have – generally Fortune 1000 characteristics and good revenue basis and are in industries that we're comfortable with and locations that are strategic to their business.
So on the office front that was a heavy quarter for us on the office side and I really wouldn't expect that sort of percentages going forward.
So with regard to office those are our views Jonathan.
Great thanks.
And maybe on the implied guidance for fourth quarter acquisition activity just being a little conservative about a 130 million are you seeing a slowdown in attractive opportunities for the one-off deals and I hear what you're saying on the M&amp;A side but are you seeing people pulling back a bit on sourcing for the one-off ones? Yes.
Well as you know our acquisitions have always been lumpy.
That's the word we just use to describe on.
In the first quarter of this year they were 128 million at the property level 738 million in the second quarter which was a record quarter and then another heavy quarter 502 million.
So 75% of these acquisitions really come in in the form of portfolios.
And if you miss a portfolio or two or win a portfolio or two it can really swing your numbers.
And then if they slip a date or move up a couple of weeks into a new quarter they can really make the quarters quite lumpy.
So it's never been a smooth acquisition process for us.
We have pretty good visibility with just a couple of months remaining in the year so we feel comfortable with approximately 1.5 billion in guidance we've given you.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question does come from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Congratulations John.
Wondering if you could touch upon the disposition side of the equation I think you guys had done an extensive analysis in the past of all the properties you wanted to sell so want to get some color on where you guys are in the process of that and how big is the bucket? Yes with regard to dispositions we're going to end up the year having about 125 million which is a pretty good number for us in terms of size.
Last year that was closer to 50 million.
Next year we're anticipating in access of 75 million to 100 million.
And most of what we're selling is kind of coming out – is our kind of bottom bucket which is sort of a watchlist.
And as we've grown the company through acquisitions and made dispositions we brought the watch list down of a black as we call it group of companies from 23% in July of 2011 to 9% today.
Now that doesn’t mean we want to sell everything that’s in that 9% category.
That just means those are properties that we’re watching maybe we have industry concerns or credit concerns or specific real estate concerns.
So generally the dispositions will come out of that pool.
So we’ll remain active on that front.
But as you know our ability to transact in very large quantities there is offset by what we acquire in order to minimize the dilution from the activities.
We normally budget on the property dispositions 8% sales cap rates or say that that’s a bit conservative.
This year we run around the mid 7’s in terms of sales cap rates and we’re pleased with that but we’ll continue to budget through conservatisms right around an 8% for the disposition cap rates.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Sure.
And our next question does come from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Hi Ross.
Hi guys good afternoon.
I missed the last quarter’s call so I’d be remiss if I just didn’t give a big shout out to Tom and I had the pleasure working with him for most of his 16 years with the Company and I always said I thought he was one of the most underappreciated CEO’s in the business.
That means John; you’ve got some big shoes to fill.
I’m aware of that.
Thanks.
So now with that I can give you a hard time.
Can we talk a little bit and I might have missed this; did you give the underlying assumption behind that 5% of 8% FFO growth next year.
What's the acquisition volume that’s behind that? Yeah it's approximately $1 billion at cap rates consistent or in the area of where we’re seeing them today so below 7’s.
Got it okay.
And can we talk a little more about your portfolio strategy because if I think about the last couple of decades at Realty Income and I think about the ARCT transaction that took place that was the first in my mind the first big departure in terms of buying a large group of assets at a premium to what was then the NAV.
So as you look at acquisitions going forward can you talk a little bit about how do you balance what the underlying market real estate value is versus how accretive that portfolio might be to your bottom line because as I am sure you know the math works out that you could pay all-day long 10% and 20% premiums to what an asset or portfolio is worth and still make it accretive.
Right.
Well; we’re out there and I think we’re as active as anyone in the sector in terms of investing and purchasing property so it's important to us to do transactions that are accretive.
But it's also very important for us to be protected relevant to replacement costs and relevant to market rents.
So we look at all of that.
In terms of asset values yeah we see transactions that we like where we don’t lend those due to pricing.
So we try to be quite cognizant of that.
I mean ARCT was a transaction that accomplished a lot for us on the strategic side.
And as you know we financed it two thirds equity one third debt and locked in the spreads there.
It was at a cap rate that was below what we were achieving at the time on our organic property level acquisitions that was in the high 5’s but we looked at that transaction differently than we do some of our property level organic acquisitions.
Yeah.
And that’s sort of where I am going because as you might expect we have received quite a few phone calls over the last week or two from folks wondering if you would be interested in going in and topping ARCT’s deal with coal basically on the same premise that hey you’ve paid big premiums to NAV before you can still make the deal accretive.
So can we maybe just nip that one in the bud to start with? I mean do you have any intent of is coal on the table for you or were not? Well we don’t comment on pending merger and acquisition activity.
I will say this with regard to the activity that’s occurred in the sector I think its positive.
We’ve seen a lot of private to public consolidation public-to-public consolidation in the sector which I think attracts more interest into the sector.
And being the largest company with the longest operating track record I think that interest in the sector with new investors and new awareness can only help us.
But I cant speak specifically as on any pending acquisition opportunities.
Okay.
Let me see if I can tackle this way strategically so clearly the ARCT deal was a bit of a game changer for you strategically.
Are you -- is the portfolio at where you would like it to be from that perspective or do you feel like you need another quote unquote game changing transaction to ultimately meet your strategic goals? Yes.
Well ARCT was a very very strong strategic bid for us.
And when we pursue entity level acquisitions we look for a number of checks the transaction needs to be immediately accretive as our team was on a leveraged neutral basis.
It needs to generally improve our overall diversification and our portfolio credit quality.
Ideally it would improve occupancy and link in our average remaining lease terms and reduce concentrations in our portfolio.
We see few of those opportunities but ARCT was one of that.
Okay.
Thanks John.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Ross.
And our next question does come from the line of Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Hi Todd.
Yes.
Just to follow along the same line of questioning there with regards to the large entity deals.
The ones that you’ve seen come across the desk recently have they been relatively quick no’s or have they been interesting enough where you spend a lot of time looking at them and the final details just didn’t work out? Yes.
We thoroughly analyzed everything that comes through the door with our acquisitions team and the broader team here and make decisions either prior to investment committee or within the investment committee in terms of what we do on all acquisition.
So seldom do we dismiss things quickly but it does happen.
Okay.
And then just on the acquisitions guidance for 2014 of the roughly $1 billion would you expect more of that to be in the investment grade area or the non-investment grade area? And what’s the spread that you’re seeing between those initial yields today? I would think that it would be consistent with the percentages we’ve seen this year maybe a little bit lower in terms of spreads Sumit touched on those.
The cap rates seem to have stabilized and adjusted to the change in capital costs that occurred really in May.
So cap rate seem to be holding steady at where they’re today.
In terms of spreads our spreads are actually debt or relative to our weighted average cost of capital on our acquisitions this quarter than where they’ve been historically.
We are running in at about a 165 basis points spread relative to our weighted average cost of capital currently and over the life of the Company that’s been about 145 basis points.
So our spreads to debt have gotten better while our -- as Sumit mentioned our spreads to our nominal cost of equity have come down a little bit to the average levels during the life of the Company.
So I think those spreads I mean I don’t know where our capital will be priced next year but we’re anticipating those spreads to hold for now.
Okay.
And then maybe a couple of questions for you too Paul if you could just first comment on what was in the other revenue line this quarter and accounting for that increase? And then secondly I don't know if there were any takeaways from the increase with the revolver but I'm wondering if one of them is that you guys keep a balance on there accumulating a little longer and go to market with larger capital transactions like we've seen recently? Yes.
The other income line is one that I typically don't comment on because it's not a line that we want people to kind of underwrite from a run rate perceptive.
It typically includes ongoing property level type issues like easement or eminent domain takings where you receive a payment.
Those are usually very positive cash flow transactions by the way but they flow into that line as well as interest income that we might have cash on hand rent come in early if you raise money that sits for a week before you invest it into that nature it kind of flows into that line.
So it's not one that we try to project out and have people underwrite in their projections or earnings for us.
But there's always going to be something there and that's what fell into that line as is the norm.
In terms of the credit line yes we're real pleased with our existing bank group of 15 lenders all saying yes and participating in the increase there and the exercise of our accordion.
And what it does do it give us more flexibility.
John referenced on the acquisition front gives us more flexibility.
The ability for Sumit to proceed with LOIs [ph] that have no financing contingency in them because we have a large line to draw upon so that it makes your offer naturally stronger when you have the ability to do that.
And then yes on the permanent capital financing front gives us more flexibility and patience to wait for the appropriate market windows whether that be for equity or bonds or preferred but to be able to carry a little bit of balance and wait for a good market window in order to raise the permanent capital.
So it kind of gives us flexibility on the front-end with acquisitions but also in the capital markets front as well.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Our next question does come from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
Is your visibility – would you say is your visibility better on deal flow as we sit here today? I mean if you look back to this time last year your original guidance for 2013 was 550 million and now you're saying you could do 1 billion next year.
Is that just a reflection that you're a bigger company at this point or is there anything to kind of look at the pace of deal flow? Well we're seeing activity based on our sourcing numbers which are very high so we continue to work some of that.
So we do have some visibility over the next few quarters and Todd it remains very difficult to predict and project but we thought that it would be more appropriate to come out with a number of approximately 1 billion next year.
And part of that is guided based upon our view of what's happening today and may spillover into the early part of next year.
Okay.
Thanks John.
And you also indicated with the office property acquisition that you highlighted or a previous caller highlighted lease back to your second large retail tenant that did not close yet.
Did I get that right? No it's closed.
It's closed.
You can't disclose any color on that? No we can't subject to the confidentiality agreement we signed with the tenant.
Will that unlock at some point to get more information or is that – what kind of window is that? It's as long as we own the building.
Okay.
And just switching gears Paul your operating expenses I think you indicated that you can kind of look at maybe a $20 million number for next year.
What is in that number? What kind of property operating expenses would Reality Income be responsible for? Yes we historically as you know the property expense line was going to be related to taxes maintenance insurance utilities all on vacant properties.
So it was catch on a line for the 50 to 100 properties in any given point in time that we were carrying until we re-lease them or sold them but we were responsible for those expenses.
That was a different number.
That was a number that was more in the $12 million to $13 million $14 million type range I'd call it.
And that is still in that number and part of that.
The reason it's increased a bit from a run rate obviously it's still a pretty manageable number is that we have had a portion of our portfolio grow into more of a double net structure.
Some assets that we bought do have leases that give us some responsibilities as landlord.
That's primarily [indiscernible].
Those costs are not – on an order of magnitude there are concerning the ones that we budget for and they could range from $0.05 a square foot to $0.30 a square foot if you will in terms of what we're budgeting for those.
And that's what has increased that run rate.
It started to hit the $50 million area beginning of the year and now we're looking at more of a $20 million of run rate into next year as we look at our existing portfolio.
Thanks for that.
Would you purchase new acquisitions in the double net lease or is that just going to be legacy assets? Well I think we'll be open-minded.
Yes we'll be open-minded.
I think it depends on what the property is and the overall return and economics.
But in the industrial sector they often refer to triple net lease in a manner that's different than we do in the retail sector and it's triple net and that the tenant is responsible for maintenance insurance and taxes but there may be some structural components that the landlord is responsible for and that's the primary difference and that's what Paul was alluding to.
So having those responsibilities would not preclude us from pursuing the right assets there Todd.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Todd.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer portion of Realty Income's conference call.
I will now turn the call over to John Case for concluding remarks.
Okay.
Thanks Craig and thanks everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate your time and we look forward to seeing many of you at NAREIT and speaking to you again at the beginning of the year for the fourth quarter call.
Everybody have a great Halloween.
Take care.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude the conference call for today.
If you would like to listen to a replay you may do so by dialing either 303-590-3030 or 1-800-406-7325.
You'll need to enter the access code of 4644579.
Those telephone numbers once again are 303-590-3030 or 1-800-406-7325 with the access code of 4644579.
Again we thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income Fourth Quarter 2013 Operating Results Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be open for question (Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Terry Miller Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Danielle and thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income’s fourth quarter and 2013 operating results conference call.
Discussing our results will be John Case our Chief Executive Officer; Paul Meurer Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Sumit Roy Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us on the call is Mike Pfeiffer our Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
During this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The Company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater details the factors that may cause such differences in the Company’s 2013 Form 10-K.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Case.
Thanks Terry.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call.
We are certainly pleased with our operating performance for the fourth quarter and our record setting results for the year.
I am going to have Paul start and provide an overview of the number.
So Paul?  Thanks John.
As usual I will comment on our financial statements provide some highlights of the financial results for both the quarter and the year starting with the income statement total revenue increased over 62% for the quarter and over 61% for the year.
This increase obviously reflects our significant growth from new acquisitions over the past year as well as healthy same-store rental growth.
Our rental revenue at December 31 on an annualized basis was approximately $819 million.
You will note this quarter that we also have added new disclosure regarding tenant reimbursement as an additional revenue line item as well as an identical offsetting amount added to our property expense line.
This refers to property expenses that we simply pay first and then get reimbursed by the tenant.
There is no financial impact to our earnings they offset each other as revenues and expenses and this is simply new disclosure in our income statements this quarter.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased to over $85 million in the quarter and depreciation expense is obviously increased with our portfolio growth.
Interest expense increased in the quarter to $50.6 million.
This increase was primarily due to the $750 million issuance of 10 year bonds last July as well as some credit facility borrowings during the quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remained strong with interest coverage at 3.6 times and fixed charge coverage at 3.0 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the fourth quarter were approximately $16.5 million.
They were $56.8 million for the year.
Our G&amp;A expense naturally did increased this past year as our acquisition activity increased and we added some new personnel to manage a larger portfolio.
Our employee base has grown from 97 employees a year-ago to 115 employees today.
Overall our total G&amp;A in 2013 as a percentage of total rental and other revenues was still only 7.5% for the low end of our historic run rate of 7.5% to 8% from revenues.
However our 2013 G&amp;A also had about $8 million of non-recurring unique expenses from accelerated stock vesting of our old 10 year grant back in the third quarter and the acceleration of our former CEO's pay compensation into the 2013 calendar year.
To our current projection for G&amp;A for 2014 it’s only about $50 million or approximately 5.5% of revenues.
Property expenses are noted as $13 million for the quarter and $39 million for the year.
However as I mentioned these amounts include property expenses reimbursed by tenant.
The property expenses that we are responsible for were approximately $3.7 million for the quarter and $13.9 million for the year.
And our projection for 2014 for property expenses that we will be responsible if $16.5 million.
Income taxes simply consist of income taxes paid to various states by the Company and they were $670 000 for the quarter and $2.7 million for the year.
Merger related costs just a reminder this line item refers to the costs associated with the ARCT acquisition earlier in the year and during the quarter we expensed the remaining $138 000 of such costs.
Income from discontinued operations for the quarter totaled $15.2 million.
This income is associated with our property sales activity during the quarter.
We sold 22 properties during the quarter for $28 million with a gain on sales of $14.3 million.
And a reminder that we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or in our AFFO.
Preferred stock cash dividends totaled approximately $10.5 million for the quarter and net income available to common stockholders was about $53.9 million for the quarter.
Reminder that our normalized FFO simply adds back the ARCT merger related cost to FFO.
So our normalized funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.61 for the quarter an 8.9% increase versus a year ago and $2.41 for the year a 19.3% increase over 2012.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividends was $0.52 per share for the quarter a 12.7% increase versus a year-ago or $2.41 for the year a 17% increase over 2012.
With this growth and earnings we again increased our cash monthly dividend this quarter.
We have increased the dividend 65 consecutive quarters which is over 16 years of consecutive quarterly dividend increases.
Dividends paid for common share increased over 21% this year and our monthly dividend now equates to a current annualized amount of $2.186 per share.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet.
We’ve continued to maintain a conservative and very safe capital structure.
As you know in October we raised $397 million of new capital with a common equity offering.
Also on October we expanded our acquisition credit facility to $1.5 billion.
As of today we have $583 million of borrowings on that line.
We did not assume any in place mortgages during the fourth quarter.
We did pay off some of the maturity so our outstanding net mortgage debt at year-end decreased to approximately $755 million.
Our bonds which are all unsecured and fixed rate and continue to be rated Baa1 BBB+ had a weighted average maturity of almost eight years.
Our overall debt maturity schedule is also in very good shape but only $50 million of mortgages coming due in 2014 and $125 million of mortgages coming due in 2015 and our next bond maturity is only a $150 million due in November of 2015.
Our overall current debt to total market cap is 33% and our preferred stock outstanding is only 5% of our capital structure.
And our debt to EBITDA is only 6.1 times.
So in summary revenue growth this quarter was very significant.
Our expenses remain moderate so our earnings growth was very positive.
Our overall balance sheet remains very healthy and safe and we continue to enjoy excellent access to the public capital markets to fund our continued growth with well priced long-term capital.
Let me turn the call now back over to John who will give you more background on these results.
Thanks Paul.
Let me began with this overview of the portfolio which continues to generate consistent cash flow.
Our tenants are doing well based on what we're seeing today.
As we see we ended the year with 98.2% occupancy based on the number of properties with just 70 properties available for lease out of our 3 896 properties.
This occupancy is from 97.2% one year ago.
Our occupancy based on square footage and our economic occupancy are both at 99%.
Our property management growth the largest department in the company has done a great job managing this occupancy and handling our 1 600 lease rollovers since 1990s.
We are expecting our occupancy to remain fairly stable for the foreseeable future.
Our portfolio remains diversified by tenant industry geography and property type.
At the end of 2013 our properties were leased to 205 commercial tenants in 47 different industries and located in 49 states plus Puerto Rico.
77% of our rental revenue comes from our traditional retail properties while 23% comes from non-retail properties with the largest component the industrial and distribution.
We believe this diversification is important and leads to more predictable cash flow streams for our shareholders every time.
At the end of the fourth quarter our 15 largest tenants accounted for 44.6% of rental revenue.
That’s down from 47.1% for the same period one year ago.
So we continue to make progress on this over time.
In 2008 the top 15 accounted for 54.3% of our rental revenues.
Within the top 15 there was very little movement from last quarter to this quarter with 15 tenants being represented.
No single tenant accounts for more than 5.2% of rental revenue.
The diversification by tenant remains quite favorable for us.
FedEx continues to be our largest tenant at 5.2% of rental revenue which is virtually unchanged from last quarter.
Walgreens and Family Dollar are again our second and third largest tenants at 5% and 4.8% rental revenue respectively.
Walgreens was flat from last quarter while Family Dollar is down 4.3% and then all other tenants are at or below 3.1% of rental revenues.
When you get down to the 15 largest tenants which is Walmart/Sam's Club it represents only 1.6% of rental revenue and the percentages trail off from there.
We’ve added 55 new tenants to the portfolio this year further enhancing our tenant diversification.
Convenient stores remain our largest industry but continue to check down as a percentage of rental revenue.
Convenient stores now represent 10.6% of rental revenue down from 14.9% a year ago.
Drug stores are now at 9.7% up from 3.3% a year ago.
This was the fastest growing industry for us in the last year.
It’s well aligned with our strategy of targeting high quality non-discretionary retailers and attractive locations.
Restaurants if you combine both casual dining and quick service segments are now at 9% down from 12.4% a year ago.
Dollar stores are now at 7.1% up from 4.3% a year ago.
We continue to provide the deep value proposition this industry offers to our consumers in this economy with consumers under a bit of pressure.
Health and fitness is at 6.8% Theaters are at 5.6% and transportation services are at 5.4% of total revenues.
All other industry categories are at or below 4.3% of revenue.
So we continue diversifying our rental revenues by industry.
Looking a property type retail always has represents the primary source of our rental revenues at 77% of property revenues with industrial and distribution at 11% office at 6.5% and the reminder basically evenly divided between manufacturing and agriculture.
Of course we know retail well we continue to focus on retail tenants that meet our investment parameters more than 90% of our retail portfolios have a service non- discretionary and/or low price point components to investments.
We believe these characteristics better position these tenants to successfully operate in all economic environments and make them less vulnerable to Internet competition.
Regarding lease length the average remaining lease terms continues to be just under 11 years.
Same-store rents increased 1.8% during the fourth quarter which we’re pleased with for the year they increased 1.4%.
This level of growth is where we expect it to continue for reminder of the year.
Let me take a moment on tenant credit the credit quality of the portfolio continues to be healthy with 40% of our rental revenue generated from the investment grade tenants.
With upon investment grade tenants those tenants is having an investment grade rating by one or more of the 3 major rating agencies.
This revenue percentage is consistent with where it was last quarter but it’s off from 23.5% at the end of 2012 of the last four years we’ve established a significant foundation of revenues from investment grade tenants add investment spreads above our historical spreads.
Creating a stronger credit profile for our tenant base.
We’re also pleased with the rental growth we have been able to generate from these investment grade tenants 70% of our investment grade leases have renovate increases in them which average 1.5% annual which is consistent with our historical portfolio rental growth rate.
Moving on to the property acquisitions we completed $1.5 billion for the year at an initial yield of 7.1%.
This volume is a record adding the $3.2 billion acquisition of our ARCT that closed in January of last year.
We made a total of $4.7 billion in investments.
Regarding cap rates our policy again is to announce first year cash cap rates for the market and not GAAP cap rates which tend to be notably higher due to the straight lining of rent.
We continue to see attractive investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital.
During the year our average spreads to our WAC our weighted average cost of capital was 155 basis points reverting to our long-term average.
Now I’d like to hand it over to Sumit who will provide some additional color on our acquisitions activity for the quarter and for the year.
Sumit? Thank you John.
As John mentioned during the fourth quarter we made $145.3 million in property level investments in 66 properties at an average initial cash yield of 7.3% with a weighted average lease term of 12.5 years.
62% of the revenues generated by these acquisitions is from investment grade tenants.
These assets are leased to 21 different tenants in 16 different industries.
Most significant industry is represented with discount stores drug stores diversified industrial and health and fitness.
The properties are located in 28 states and 80% of the investments are comprised of our traditional retail properties.
In 2013 we invested $1.514 billion in 459 properties at an average initial cash cap rate of 7.1% and lease term of 14 years.
65% of total rents are generated by investment grade tenants.
The assets are leased to 32 different tenants in 23 different industries.
Most significant industry is represented with drugstores discount stores health and fitness and wholesale clubs.
The properties are located in 40 states.
84% of the investments are comprised of our traditional retail properties 10% industrial and 9% in office.
Including ARCT we have invested $4.7 billion in 974 properties in 2013.
Regarding transaction flow we continue to see mostly a record volume of transaction this year.
We sourced $39.4 billion in acquisition opportunities in 2013 of which $2.6 billion was sourced in the fourth quarter.
To put it in perspective the $39.4 billion sourced in 2013 was more than double the volume sourced in all of 2012 which was a record year of sourcing for us.
The volume of opportunities were primarily driven by large portfolios and entity level transactions as compared to one of transactions.
However of the 1.5 billion in property level transactions closed in 2013 over 30% or approximately $461 million where one-off transactions.
Our relationships continue to be a paramount importance to us.
Approximately 66% of the 1.5 billion in transactions closed in 2013 were relationship driven.
As you can see we have continued to leverage our relationships and have remained very selective in our investment and our pursuing only those transactions that offer superior risk adjusted returns and fit our strategic portfolio objectives.
Overall we have been pleased with the investment results achieved in 2013.
After pricing cap rates have remained stable in the fourth quarter.
The stickiness of the cap rates are testament to the amount of capital continuing to pursue transactions.
Investment grade property cap rates range from 6.25 to 7.15.
Non-investment grade properties are trading from7.25 to 8.25 cap rate.
From 2010 to 2013 we have consummated over $4.4 billion in organic acquisitions that’s excluding ARCT of which 55% has been investment grade credit and approximately 45% non-investment grade or non-rated credit.
We invested over $1.8 billion during this period in our traditional non-investment grade retail of which approximately $418 million was in 2013.
To put this in context this was a more active 4 year period for investments in non-rated non-investment grade retail than any other 4 year period in our company’s history.
Our investment philosophy of pursuing opportunities that provide the best risk adjusted returns across the credit spectrum remains consistent with our stated strategy.
For 2013 our investment spread remains healthy.
Spreads relative to a nominal cost of equity averaged 112 bps for the year as compared to our historic average of approximately 110 bps.
For the quarter they were closer to 135 bps.
As John mentioned looking at our investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital we averaged 155 bps which is comparable to our historical average.
We have continued to make investment at historic spreads while improving the credit its tenants and cash flows associated with those investments.
So in conclusion we saw an exceptional level of volume in the sector and have been pleased with our $1.51 billion investment in 2013.
Including ARCT we invested $4.7 billion in 2013 by par a record investment year for us.
John? Thanks Sumit.
We recently disclosed as we know a $503 million acquisition of 84 single tenant net lease properties from d diversified.
We believe this acquisition should close in three trenches during the first quarter or first four months of the year.
The first tranche of 46% properties closed at the end of January for $202 million.
It’s our policy not to announce acquisitions since or after they close however in this case the seller was required to disclose the contract so we also disclosed a potential sale.
We are subject to a confidentially agreement within one that prevents us from commenting on the transaction beyond what is already been publically disclosed in the file they case.
As this is our custom we will address all quarterly acquisition activity collectively on the earnings call following the quarter and which is close.
Going to property dispositions we continue selling select properties and redeploying the capital into investment that are better that our investment strategy.
During the year we sold 75 properties for $134.2 million at a cap rate of approximately 7% on the sale of leased assets.
We currently believe our dispositions for 2014 will be in the neighborhood of $50 million possibly reaching $75 million.
Moving on to the balance sheet as Paul mentioned we remain conservatively capital loss with excellent access to all forms of capital.
Currently we have more than $900 million available on our line to fund acquisition.
We will continue to match fund our acquisitions with permanent and long-term capital the majority being equity.
All our bond issuance in our company’s history that’s 14 of them at a term of 10 years or longer with the exception of one a five-year notes insurance.
We did smooth out our maturity schedule.
And outside temporary borrowings on the credit facility 100% of our outstanding debt is fixed rate.
On to our earnings for 2013 normalized FFO and AFFO were both $2.41 per share for the year.
Our growth in normalized FFO per share was 19.3% more than double our previous historical volume.
And growth in AFFO per share was 17% versus 2012 also a record.
As we look forward coming off such a good year from an operational perspective we remain quite optimistic as we continue to see a robust market for acquisitions with excellent investment opportunities in both non-investment grade retail assets as well as investment grade properties.
Over our 45-year history we’ve developed many relationships through which we are continuing to generate acquisition opportunities.
We are raising our acquisitions guidance for 2014 from $1 billion to $1.2 billion.
Our earnings guidance for 2014 remains at $2.53 to $2.58 per share for both normalized FFO and AFFO.
We are maintaining our earnings guidance despite the increased guidance through acquisitions due to the anticipated timing for these acquisitions.
Our dividends pay during the year increased by just over 21% compared to 2012 the largest increase in our company’s history.
In December we declared our 74th dividend increase since the company went public in 1994.
We remain optimistic that our activities will continue to support our ability to increase the dividend.
Our payout ratio during 2013 was approximately 88% of our AFFO which is at a level we are comfortable with.
So with that I’d now like to open it up for questions.
Danielle? Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
I was just hoping you could speak a little bit more about the trend you’re seeing cap rates you said they were fairly sticky in the fourth quarter partially due to the sort of rate of money I guess.
Do you anticipate that the stay that the case kind of for the foreseeable future in 2014 based on what you’re seeing? And you talked a little bit about historic spreads and the spreads you got in the fourth quarter.
But could you give us a sense where spot spread is relative to your cost of capital and how you’re thinking about that? Sure Juan.
First of all with regard to cap rates we expect them to stay pretty steady.
There is a lot of capital out there pursuing these types of assets.
So we don’t anticipate them climbing from here.
With regard to spreads our spot spread if you will is roughly equivalent to where we were for 2013.
So at this point it looks like we’re holding our spreads.
Spreads are down from their peak year of 2012.
Its capital has been reprised and there we just see sudden movement last year in cap rates and then they stabilized.
Okay great.
I kind of mixed this rather quickly.
The reason the guidance here are the same yet the acquisitions was prompt for the 2014 guidance you said it was if I understand correctly because of the timing would it seems like you’ve drawn on your revolver implying you’ve done a fair chunk of the 1.2% sort of year-to-date I was just curious if you give little bit more color as I may have missed the details.
Yes it’s based on timing and as you know from the time we solicit a transaction to the time it actually close this can take up to six months.
So from a timing perspective we would anticipate the additional acquisitions occurring later in the year and having more of an impact on 2015 and 2014.
And as you know the quarter is a pretty lumpy for acquisitions for instance last quarter we did a $145 million in the year end which we did $1.5 billion of total acquisition so you can never really extrapolate from one quarter to an entire year so we are comfortable with the guidance where it is.
Okay and the drawdown of the revolver since the end of the year that should we assume that is related to acquisitions? Yes.
Okay great thank you guys.
Thank you Juan.
And our next question is from Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys good afternoon.
Hi Ross.
My question to you would this if you are forecasting now $1.2 billion of acquisitions what probability would you put on doing say twice that versus you are not going to do not I’m just wondering given the robust pipeline that’s out there and what you’ve got all ready sort of locked up.
Do you still think that $1.2 billion you guys have always been conservative in your guidance and I’m just sitting here wondering are we still in an arena where you could just blow that away? Well we are quite selective Ross as you kind of let me – over the last few years we’ve been buying 6% to 12% of our source transactions so it’s always driven by what the opportunities are? Do those opportunities need our investment parameters and are they priced appropriately and so there are always difficult to forecast.
Right now investor expectation is approximately $1.2 billion for organic property level acquisitions.
And based on what you are seeing how much of that do you think it’s going to be in portfolios versus more smaller one-offs? I would say if you would normalize it for the end of the year I’d say about 65% to 70% would be portfolio deals.
And from a property type perspective what are you thinking in terms of how much of that’s going to be retail versus other? The vast majority would be retail.
Okay thank you.
Thank you Ross.
I guess I’ll start with you Paul just on the sourcing capital front can you just comment on the preferred market kind of how it influences your capital sourcing activity and out for sometime that preferred market has been essentially closed and I know you guys have room in your capital stack for but I want to as you look out over the next couple of quarters how you’re budgeting your capital.
I think my comments can be fairly short talking about the preferred markets.
It is pretty opportunistic as you know.
It’s going to ebb and flow kind of be more available at different times and I have to say as a general remark it’s not the most available market at the moment.
I only say that you could actually do it but related to where you could issue and therefore have a reasonable spread really doesn’t make sense.
I think that case there maybe high fixes on a coupon and so that's not something we're really staring out at the moment.
Over time we love preferred no maturity obviously and great way to match fund long-term assets like we like to probably do the longer debt but at the moment preferred is probably not in the cards for the foreseeable future.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on the same store growth it seemed pretty high was 1.8%.
I think John you mentioned little closer 1.5%.
How did you get that high’s? Usually I guess where you stood may be closer to 1% but it’s made a pretty good move I guess what’s contributing to this?  Well in 2012 we were impacted by a couple of bankruptcies Buffets and Friendly.
So that put a bit of a lid on it and it’s picked back up as we’ve pushed through that into 2013.
The growth is coming from a number of industries in convenient stores quick service restaurants beverages they're all doing quite well for us and we think it should be around 1.5% for the year and that’s sort of a run rate right now we're pretty comfortable with.
Okay.
Just sticking with you John I think you mentioned this.
Can you just repeat the percentage of investment grade tenant leases that contain annual rate escalators did you say 7% to 8%? Yes 70% of our investment grade leases have rent growth which average 1.5% a year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Just switching gears I think you alluded to this but if not can you just talk about some of the qualitative benefits that you’ve realized I guess going back from your ECM portfolio acquisition which got you into the industrial segment? And then you’ve got ARCT which moved the needle for you guys into the investment grade segment.
Items like relationships you develop with new tenants or maybe your first look at a sale lease back anything you can share with us that you benefited from these large portfolio transactions? Yes I think you’ve hit on it.
We have really been able to multiply exponentially the number of tenant relationships we have and the opportunities for investment in terms of properties.
So one reason for the increase and the source volume activity has been your net lease has been mainstream.
So I think everybody is seeing more of it.
So we’re seeing more of it in the retail alone but we’re also seeing more of it as the property types in which we can invest or expand it.
So we’ve seen more activity as a result of the acquisitions we’ve done and had really many more relationships through which to generate acquisition opportunities.
So I mean we had to size today where we feel like we see everything in the marketplace and I don't think that was the case for apps four five years ago.
Okay.
Thanks.
And finally just on the disposition front.
How are you kind of thinking about that as you look out to 2014? Are we going to see more of the mix on vacancies the short-term leases any property types any color you can provide on dispositions? Yes when you look at the dispositions we're thinking maybe 50 million to 75 million for this year.
When you look at the activity there it's a combination of assets where we’ve seen perhaps the operating performance decline any areas where we would like to decrease our industry exposure or where we have the few credit concerns.
And in a few cases there is some assets that are performing all right but just don’t meet our investment strategy in other words it could be a multitenant asset that we are selling.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Chris Lucas with Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Inc</strong> Thanks and good afternoon guys.
The other quick question on depositions in the convenience stores can you kind of – looking at your portfolio today you mentioned convenience store concentration is down slightly versus Q3.
What’s the right level of convenience stores and casual dining restaurants in your portfolio and how long do you think it will stay together? Yes.
We were comfortable with where they are today.
We brought and sold significantly down sea stores and restaurants and 10% were comfortable.
We had selectively sold some properties in both of those sectors but really our concentration levels were brought down through our growth and diversified asset pools like the ones that we’ve been watching and a bit concerned with.
We continue to look at in particular a couple of casual dining situations and then a couple of the smaller sea stores that don’t produce the same sort of store sales figures that we like to see in our investments there.
Inc</strong> Got it.
Thanks and just one more question.
Just going back to the 70% of investment grade leases that have red bumps could you give a break down of that by property type? Yes.
The industrial distribution and office are both around 2% and the retail is at 1.25%.
Inc</strong> Okay got it.
And then in that 70% how much of that is say I don’t know 50% retail maybe 30% industrial in terms of the composition of actual 70%? Yes I think retail is probably about half of it.
And then the other categories constitute the remaining half.
Inc</strong>  Got it.
Thanks guys.
Yes thanks.
Our next question is from Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon guys.
I am curious the boundary line in credit John I mean you have $600 million underlying credit at the moment and I assume we will be taking that out with permanent capital fairly quickly.
And then I am wondering why the 1.5 billion are you anticipating that you will need the 1.5 billion capacity I guess? Let me start with the first part of your question.
We have plenty of flexibility right now on the revolvers that we have no immediate concrete permanent capital or long-term capital plans.
So that’s the first answer to your first question.
Why the size? We like the additional liquidity and security and safety that provides the company and it also allows us to pursue larger transactions on a non-financing contingent basis which really is a competitive advantage that only a few players in the market have.
Yes the other is… The other piece of flexibility Rich is timing of the capital rates.
So kind of looking now which again John said is not eminent in terms of definitive plans we have at the moment but then able to time the market appropriately having the balance they are likely to do that.
Okay.
So have you guys seen something of the size that you would need a credit line that big to take down? Well I mean we’ve seen opportunities with all different forms and shapes and sizes.
So we’ve seen over the last several years a few opportunities that would have required the vast majority of that revolver.
Okay good.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then I’m curious on the operating expense.
I’m not sure why you made that change and it’s interesting that you did but it’s probably just more detail but so I guess that’s each question… Question about the tenant reimbursement stuff? Yes including the tenant imbursements and breaking it out.
You know what Rich I don’t like it.
I mean it’s one of those things at the disclosure standpoint.
It’s an appropriate accounting approach and it doesn’t add anything for you guys because these are basically expenses that we do get reimbursed for.
We don’t have major outstanding receivables related to them anything like that but disclose rate through.
The issue was they’ve just gotten to be a little bit more in size.
So once they reach little bit more of a material amount which is now about $25 million annually it was prudent to break it out at some additional disclosure.
But I wanted to make sure I was highlighting to you don’t count that in the revenue line and forget about the fact that it offset immediately down the expense line.
Right.
Okay.
I got your point.
So when you’re looking at the small operating expenses with the operating expenses that are reimbursed it went down a little bit this quarter I mean it’s not a huge number to begin with but only down.
And remind me is that just a vacant asset or do guys have some of the multi-tenant or double net type leases or something like that that is also part of that? No it’s both.
I mean historically it was primarily carry cost on the vacant properties tax of insurance utilities.
But over the last 18 to 24 months we have purchased properties with double net structure where we have some responsibilities for roof and structure and as such that budget is in there as some additional property expenses still only $16.5 million budgeted for next year on what the current run rate of $890 million of annualized revenue.
So still not a huge number but it has gone up a bit past few years.
Okay good.
Thanks.
And then the last thing.
The other revenue line item which you know has a couple of crazy things in it.
Do you guys have an estimate for what that might be or is there just no way to do that? Yes the way I will answer that is don’t put zero in because something always tends up there.
Business property taking which could be an eminent domain grab of some property line if they widened the highway it’s kind of pretty money if you will.
In many cases not impinging on your parking or things of that nature.
And then interest income.
If you have cash that’s received early that you’re putting away in a bank briefly for some income or you’ve raised something on offering that you haven’t used for a day or two.
So it just ends up being something.
So my only advice it’s to not put zero in but I hate to give a number but there is always going to be something there.
Okay good.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Rich.
The next question is from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Hi Emmanuel.
When you guys think about the investment spreads you’ve been quoting in the spreads your weighted average cost of capital.
Do you think that was permanent financing or using a line especially in sort of spot investments? No we’re looking at it based on permanent financing using roughly two-thirds equity one-third 10-year fixed rate notes.
Got it.
And then if we think about the pipelines that we look at and maybe passed on I think you’ve quote numbers around $60 billion over the last couple of years.
How much of that is ended up in sort of either public or other known hands and how much of it has been bought from the market? I’d say a significant portion has ended up in the hands of public or private.
So we see a lot of it in terms of the exact breakdown.
You’re right.
Yes you’re right John I’d say a majority of them have ended up in either public or private hands but there have been occasions on large very large transactions that we aware of where those transactions will float.
Yes.
And was it mostly a pricing thing that it ended up that you guys passed on it or where there other considerations? The situations that I’m alluding to you were all driven by pricing considerations.
Great.
That’s all from me.
Thank you.
Thanks Emmanuel.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
This is Todd Lukasik.
Thanks for taking my questions today.
P.
Case</strong> Hey Hey.
It’s just a question on office.
6.6% of revenue it looks like and there is a [indiscernible] submitted into the portfolio again this past quarter.
I think in the past you guys have talk about that not being one of your favorite property types.
I’m wondering if there is anything in particular about the assets that you’re buying there that are especially attractive or sellers are requiring that those be concluded in deals or that may change in thinking around those office properties? P.
Case</strong> Well the office asset we were typically acquiring office properties that are part of larger portfolios of retail and industrial and distribution properties.
That is not always the case.
Times will extend our relationship for instance with some of our retail tenants by purchasing their office or industrial property as well.
So we’ll see some activity from those areas but our objective is keep office fairly low as a percentage of our overall property rental revenue.
I know some of those are coming on the balance sheet because the seller is requiring that be part of the deal? No fairly.
I mean like John said sometimes they’re any larger portfolio meaning a service pack transaction that was already affected by another service pack provider in this part of a portfolio or it’s the direct conversation with a strong long-term retailer relationship where the assets take a look at say their headquarters’ location as an asset we consider doing something with.
But not fortunate as that’s part of a larger deal in dialog.
Got you.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just with regards to AFFO coverage on the dividend with more industrial and distribution facilities office assets on the balance sheet those things expire if the tenants doesn’t renew there may be more leasing cost or CapEx that needs to be put into some of those properties to define a new tenant.
Is that the kind of thing that might cause you to think to lower the AFFO payout ratio overtime as those we can start to roll or is that you’re comfortable with sort of 88% level in light of those possible incremental cost on the road? Don I think over time we would like to see at the just bit lower somewhere in the mid 80s is the level we think we will be comfortable with.
Having said that we’ll continue to grow the dividend as it relates… Sure Our overall earnings growth so if you are talking about x percent of growth then we are going to be try and grow the dividend 0.8x or whatever might be to try to move that payout ratio down a little bit over time but it will certainly result in what we think will be dividend growth that will be amenable to and helpful to the investor from a return perspective over time.
Yes okay got you.
That’s helpful.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thanks Todd.
And our next question is from Jonathan Pong with Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Hey Jonathan.
Sumit I think you mentioned earlier there is a 65-35 split between portfolio and single tenant deals for 2014 is that 65 include the MN deal or I just think going forward deal yet to announced is going to be 55% portfolio? Yes Jonathan that was a back foot looking that is for 2010 to 2013 so it been obviously included inline transaction which has been closed which includes till 2014.\ Got it so 2014 what do you think that split ends up? No it’s going to be similar I think there was a question asked around where do we see a lot of our volume composition how do we see our volume competition on the opposition side and I still believe that it’s a big chunkier transaction drive volume and that will represent 65 to 70% of it.
And in terms of investment grade versus non-investment grade it;s going to function of our cost of capital and what we see in the market.
There was a repricing of our cost of capital which allowed us to look at areas that we have traditionally being perusing to get the kind of spread we been able to track and so I could see it being right around that 50% to 60% investment grade for 2014 as well but it could be different.
All right Then Paul may be a balance sheet question on the inland purchase there another some debt that you are assuming there of the trenches that are yet to close how much more the revolver is inland going to take on? Well as you know with $202 million at the end of January close and some of that involved assuming mortgages about $50 million or so and though you cannot do the math from there because $500 million transaction the montage amount on it is that 150 so a 100 is assumed out of the $300 million left to close so say $200 million is need on the facility to ultimately close the balance of the inline transaction.
Great that’s helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Joe.
Our next question is from Chris Lucas with Capital One Securities.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good afternoon guys.
As John I just want to see if you can give some more color on the acquisition environment and particular I guess what I am trying to under is where the most competitive size of deal is it the one-off is it the small portfolio where is the market most competitive right now?  It’s most competitive on larger portfolios where there – you’re definitely seeing spell in this market premium cap rates foreign cap rates for the same asset and a $300 million portfolio transaction then you would see any one-off asset transaction.
And again I attribute that to the fact that there is a fair amount of capital in our industry and business and to deploy it efficiently and quickly once they premium paid for the asset at the.
So we do see that spread all things being equal and asset acquired on a one-off basis.
That’s going to have a higher cap rate than one acquired on a larger portfolio.
However that is not universally the case but that’s certainly the trend perhaps.
Inc.</strong>  And then just a question on that.
If the 10/31 market is recovering at all is there much activity coming from sort of that one-off buyer the small individual tax incentive buyer?  There is more activity.
We saw more activity in 2013 than we did in the previous few years combined property.
So it's come back.
It's still not back to where it once was pre-Great Recession but we’re seeing more activity there.
Inc.</strong> So what do you think changes that momentum? Is this financing availability or – well turned up investments.
What you think of kind of gain.
Yes this is a bit more of an impressive investment environment that you had.
Again people are getting their feet under that and feeling a bit more confident even though the economic signals appear to be mixed.
They're just seeing more people go into transaction in that marketplace.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Chris.
Thanks.
Ladies gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer portion of Realty Income conference call.
I would now turn the call over to John Case for concluding remarks.
Thanks Danielle and thanks everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate your time and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thanks again for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Realty Income First Quarter 2014 Operating Results Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
This conference is being recorded today Thursday the 1 of May 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Janeen Bedard Associate Vice President.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Lorenzo and thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income’s first quarter 2014 operating results conference call.
Discussing our results will be John Case Chief Executive Officer; Paul Meurer Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Sumit Roy Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer.
During this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The Company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater details the factors that may cause such differences in the Company’s Form 10-Q.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Case.
Thanks Janeen and good afternoon and welcome to our call.
I’m pleased to report an excellent start to 2014 with AFFO per share increasing just under 7% to a record quarterly amount of $0.64.
Paul you want to expand on the numbers? Thanks John.
So as usual let me comment on our financial statements just provide a few highlights of the results for the quarter starting with the income statements.
Total revenue increased 26.3% for the quarter obviously this increase reflects our significant growth from new acquisitions over the past year as well as some healthy same-store rental growth on an annualized rental revenue basis at March 31st our annualized rental revenue was $867 million.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased to almost $90 million in the quarter as depreciation expense has obviously also increased with our portfolio growth.
Interest expense increased in the quarter to $51.7 million.
This increase was primarily due to the $750 million issuance of 10 year bonds we did last July as well as some credit facility borrowings during the quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remain strong with interest coverage at 3.9 times and fixed charge coverage at 3.2 times.
General administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the quarter were approximately $12.9 million.
Our G&amp;A as a percentage of total rental and other revenues has decreased to only 6%.
Our projection for G&amp;A for 2014 remains the same at approximately $50 million.
Property expenses were $10.6 million for the quarter.
However this amount includes $6.4 million of property expenses reimbursed by tenants.
The property expenses that we are responsible for were approximately $4.2 million for the quarter.
And our projection for 2014 our property expenses that we will be responsible for also remains the same at approximately $16.5 million.
Income taxes consist of income taxes paid to various states by the company and they were just under $1.1 million for the quarter.
As we explained in the press release we’ve chosen immediate early adoption of the new accounting regulations related to discontinued operations which were just released a few weeks ago.
So our property sales gains impairments and other related revenues and expenses will now appear throughout the income statement as oppose to being aggregated in the discontinued operations line.
During the quarter we did record impairments of $1.7 million and gains on sale of $3.9 million on properties sales and properties held for sale at March 31<sup>st</sup> and if see there is new line items in the income statement.
Some of this information continues to appear in the discontinued operations line however if it was associated with properties that were already held for sale at December 31st.
And this topic is discussed and explained in more detail in our 10-Q.
Preferred stock cash dividend totaled approximately $10.5 million for the quarter and net income available to common stockholders was approximately $47.2 million for the quarter.
Funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.65 for the quarter and 8.3% increase versus a year ago and as John mentioned adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividend was $0.64 per share for the quarter a 6.7% increased versus a year ago.
We again increased our cash monthly dividend this quarter we've increased the dividend 66th consecutive quarter a 16.5 years of consecutive quarterly dividend increases and our dividends paid per common share increased 6.4% this quarter versus a year ago.
Our monthly dividend now equates to a current annualized amount of approximately $2.19 per share.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we've continue to maintain a very conservative and safe capital structure.
As you know in early April we raised $529 million of new capital with a common equity offering which used to repay borrowing on our $1.5 billion acquisition credit facility.
Our acquisition credit facility today currently has a balance of approximately $285 million we have plenty of availability on that facility.
We did assume approximately $46 million of in place mortgages during the first quarter so our outstanding mortgage debt at quarter end increased to approximately $799 million.
Our bonds which are all unsecured and fixed rate and continue to be rated BAA1 BBB plus our weighted average maturity of 7.4 years.
Our overall debt maturity schedule continues to be in very good shape of only $48 million of mortgage principal coming due in 2014 and $125 million of mortgage principal in 2015.
And our next bond maturity is only $150 million due in November of 2015.
Our debt-to-EBITDA at quarter end was only 6.1 time.
Currently our total debt to total market capitalization is approximately 30% and our preferred stock outstanding is only 4% of our capital structure.
So in summary revenue growth this quarter was significant.
Our expenses remained moderate so our earnings growth was very positive.
Our overall balance sheet remains very healthy and safe and we continue to enjoy excellent access to the public capital markets to fund our continued growth with well priced long term capital.
Now let me turn the call back to John who will give you some more background.
Thanks Paul.
I will begin with an overall of the portfolio which continues perform well.
Our tenants are doing well based on what we are seeing today.
We ended the quarter with 98.3% occupancy based on the number of properties with 73 properties available for lease out of 4208 properties.
This is our highest occupancy since the third quarter of 2007 and occupancy is up from 97.7% one year ago.
Occupancy based on square footage and economic occupancy are 99% and we expect our occupancy to remain fairly stable for the foreseeable future.
Our portfolio remains diversified by tenant industry geography and to certain extent property type.
At the end of the first quarter our properties were leased to 211 commercial tenants in 47 different industries located in 49 states in Puerto Rico.
78% of the rental revenues from our traditional retail property types while 22% is from non-retail property types the largest component being industrial and distribution assets.
We believe this diversification leads to a more predictable cash flow stream for our shareholders.
At the end of the first quarter our 15 largest tenants accounted for 46.4% of rental revenue.
This is up a 180 basis points from the last quarter.
We made additional investments in two of our top 15 tenants Walgreens and Dollar General which drove this slight increase.
In 2008 our top 15 accounted for 54% of rental revenue the percentage is moved down while the composition of tenants from a credit perspective has markedly improved.
Today 61% of our top 15 tenants based on rental revenue has investment grade credit ratings.
In 2008 none of the rental revenues from our top 15 tenants came from investment credit rated tenants.
So we've made good progress on improving the credit profile of the top 15.
Our top 15 tenants remained unchanged however there has been some movement within the top 15.
No single tenant accounts for more than 5.4% of rental revenues so a diversification by tenant is favorable.
Walgreens is now our largest tenant at 5.4% of rental revenue which is up slightly from last quarter.
Walgreens replaced FedEx as our largest tenant.
FedEx is now our second largest tenant at 5.2% of rental revenue which is unchanged from last quarter.
Dollar General moved up six places and is our third largest tenant today at 5% of rental revenue.
We continue to like the deep value proposition the dollar industry offers to consumers in this economic environment with consumers continuing to be under pressure.
And Dollar General remains a dominant player in the sector.
Family Dollar and L.A.
Fitness that's our fourth and fifth largest tenants at 4.7% and 4.6% of rental revenue respectively.
All other tenants are at or below 2.9% of rental revenues.
If we get to the 15th largest tenant which remains Walmart Sam's Club it represents only 1.5% of rental revenue and the percentage is trail of from there.
If you move another five spots and go to our 20th largest tenant it represents only 1.2% of rental revenue.
We also added five new tenants to the portfolio during the quarter.
Convenient stores remain our largest industry but continue to decline as a percentage of rental revenue.
Convenient stores now represented 10.3% of rental revenue down from 10.6% last quarter drug stores are now at 9.5% down slightly from 9.7% last quarter and dollar stores are now at 9.1% up from 7.1% last quarter as a result of a dollar generals we added during the first quarter.
Health and fitness is at 6.9% virtually unchanged from last quarter.
Theaters are at 5.4% transportation services are at 5.3% then all other industry categories below that or at or below 4.5% of rental revenue.
Looking at property type.
Retail as it always has represents our primary source of our rental revenues currently at 78% of the portfolio with industrial and distribution at 11% office just over 6% and the reminder basically divided between manufacturing and agriculture properties.
We continue to focus on retail tenants that meet our investment parameters more than 90% of our retail portfolio has a service non-discretionary and/or low price point components to their business.
We believe these characteristics better position these tenants to successfully operate in all economic environments and make them less vulnerable to Internet competition.
Our weighted average remaining lease term continues to be just under 11 years.
And our same store rents increased 1.5% during the quarter as compared to the first quarter of 2013 some of the industries that drove our rent growth include convenient stores and quick service restaurants.
We believe 1.5% is the solid growth rate and expected to continue around this level for the foreseeable future.
Let me take a moment to discuss tenant credit.
The credit quality of the portfolio continues to improve with 44% of our rental revenue generated from investment grade tenants which is up from 40% at the end of last year.
Again we defined an investment grade rating company it’s having an investment grade rating by one or more of the 3 major rating agencies.
This revenue percentage is also up from 36% at the end of the first quarter in 2013.
We’re also pleased with the rental growth we’ve been able to generate from these investment grade tenants approximately 70% of our investment grade leases as a percentage of rental revenues have rental rate increases in them which averaged 1.5% annually consistent with our historical portfolio rental growth rates.
Property acquisitions we had a very busy first quarter.
We completed $657 million in acquisitions during the quarter at an initial yield of 7%.
This is the second most active quarter for acquisitions we’ve had in the company’s history.
As a reminder our initial yields or cash yields are not GAAP cap rates which can be higher due to straight lining of rent.
We continue to invest in attractive investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital.
So now I’d like to hand it over to Sumit to provide additional details on our acquisitions.
Sumit? Thank you John.
As John mentioned during the first quarter of 2014 we invested $656.7 million in 337 properties at an average initial cash cap rate of 7% and with the weighted average lease term of 14.2 years.
84% of the revenues generated by these acquisitions is from investment grade tenants.
These assets are leased to 22 different tenants in 15 different industries.
Most significant industries represented with dollar stores and drug stores.
The properties are located in 35 states 88% of the investments are comprised of retail properties and 8% are industrial assets.
Regarding sourcing we continue to seen from last year of seeing record transaction flow.
We sourced $8.1 billion in the first quarter approximately 85% of the transactions closed in the first quarter were relationship driven.
We continue to utilize our relationships and remain very selective in our investments.
As to pricing cap rates remained tight in the first quarter with investment grade properties continuing to trade in the 6% to 7% range.
Non-investment grade properties are trading from 7% to 8.5% cap rate.
But first quarter 2014 our investment spreads remained healthy.
Looking at our spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital we averaged the 156 basis points which is comparable to our historical leverage.
We have continued to make investments at historic spreads whilst improving the credit quality of the tenants and cash build associated with those investments.
In conclusion we feel like we have had a good start to the year with $657 million in investments in the first quarter and continue to see record volume of net lease acquisition opportunities.
Despite a very competitive environment we feel confident regarding leasing our investment forecast of $1.2 billion for 2014.
Thank you.
Thanks Sumit.
During the quarter we closed just over half of the $503 million transactions with Inland diversified that we announced at the end of last quarter.
Our quarterly acquisition figures include $274 million from this transaction.
The beginning of the second quarter we closed an additional $94 million of Inland and we expect the majority of the remaining properties to close during the remainder of the second quarter.
We continue selling select properties and redeploying the capital into investments that better fit our investment strategy.
During the quarter we sold 11 properties for just under $30 million at an unlevered IRR of approximately 10% which is consistent with where the company has been realizing returns on dispositions over the last couple of years.
We now believe our dispositions for 2014 will be approximately $75 million versus our previous guidance of $50 million to $75 million.
Moving on the balance sheet as Paul mentioned we remain conservatively capitalized with excellent access to capital.
On April we executed a $529 million equity offering our second largest equity offering in our history the offering was upsized from $10.5 million shares to $13.8 million shares.
Following the offering we have ample liquidity for our initial funding of acquisitions activity.
We will continue to permanently match upon our acquisitions with equity capital and long term debt with the majority being common stock.
Outside of the credit facility a 100% of our outstanding debt is fixed rate so the balance sheet continues to be in excellent shape.
We achieved record quarterly AFFO per share of $0.64 in the quarter representing increase of 6.7% from a year ago.
Our earnings guidance for 2014 remains at $2.53 to $2.58 per share again an increase of 5% to 7% over 2013.
Our growth and earnings led to an increase in the dividend paid per share by just over 6% compared to one year ago.
In March we declared our 75th dividend increase since the company went public in 1994.
And we remain optimistic there are activities will continue to support our ability to increase the dividend.
Our payout ratio during the first quarter continued to decline to approximately 86% of our AFFO which is at a level we are comfortable with.
2014 is shaping up to be another solid year for the year we continue to see a robust but also competitive market for acquisitions.
With opportunities in both in investment grade and non-investment grade retail assets.
Our long-term relationships for tenants owners developers advisors continue to generate excellent acquisition opportunities to us and we continue to anticipate $1.2 billion in acquisitions for the year.
With that I'd like to open it up for questions.
Operator?  Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question is from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Just a couple of questions first on the Dollar store exposure Family Dollar had a bit of a tough go I think they have announced store closing.
Can you comment on your exposure there and sort of how you view the real estate and the rent coverages?  Sure Juan.
We continue to like the sector due to discount orientation and the fact that these formats are appealing to the aging demographic and we feel good about Dollar General and Family Dollar.
You're referring to Family Dollar's quarterly conference call a couple of weeks ago where they disclosed for the first six months of their fiscal year they had a decrease in same store sales and they also announced that they were going to close some of their older and smaller formats about 5% and of their 8 500 total stores the impact to us should be not existent to minimal because we don’t own those types of stores our stores have healthy cash flow coverages and are performing well and the average lease term on our family dollar portfolio is 13 years.
So of course any stores that would be closed would continue to pay rent during the remainder of the lease term but we don’t think we’ll see any material if any impact our portfolio.
Okay thanks for that its good color.
And on the restaurant side it’s been a big driver of incremental growth across retail landlords platforms can you speak to your sort of historic results on being able to release restaurant leases upon maturity kind of what their rent profile looks like over time I know you guys have a deep history with initial beginnings?  Yes that’s right Juan and I’ll address that question in two parts first is our experience on the quick service restaurants has been outstanding virtually everyone that’s rolled in the company’s history it’s been re-leased to the same tenant.
A couple of sales and I can’t think off the top of my head any examples where we gone out under re-lease the QSR to a new tenant.
So the performance there is been very solid and we’ve been pleased with that.
On the casual dining sector as you know it’s an area that we're less pleased with and over the years we had a number of issues in that sector with the phase and families and there we’ve had more lease rolled where the existing tenant that not renew or exercised their auction and often we will re-lease those to local non-chain affiliated restaurant operators and take a bit of a discount on the rents relative to the expiring rents.
Great thanks.
And I think you noted this earlier but I just missed it.
What percentage of the overall portfolio I know you mentioned for the top 15 is investment grade?  Yes.
44% of the overall portfolio is investment grade.
Great.
Thanks John.
I appreciate the time.
Hey thanks Juan appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Jonathan Pong with RW Baird.
Please go ahead.<br>  Hey good afternoon guys.
We’ve not heard about how the more traditional single tenant retail net lease assets like the Walgreens (inaudible) going for low 5 high 4 cap rates as you look forward is your acquisition team adopting to that environment by maybe going after assets with more unconventional service tenants like child care for instance that would be technically considered retail but aren’t could only a meaningful part of the portfolio?  No I am we’re still focusing on the retail tenants in the industry that meet our investment plan we have not changed those.
I mean I think we’re fortunate based on our deep relationships with the tenants that we’re seeing transactions and investment opportunities that are not fully on market but I am not aware of where properties are trading that type and those properties types.
Got it that also.
And then I guess if you think about the corporate sale lease back pipeline historically it seems like that’s almost feel like a two that it seems to get refilled but with all the new competition looking for those kinds of assets these days do you see that pipeline shirking into deeper into the cycle?  Well I think there is more competition but the opportunities continue to be plentiful.
And so I don't really see the sale lease back opportunities declining.
But I would say that the overall competition is probably greater than even it was your 12 to 24 months ago.
Okay.
And then maybe just a quick (inaudible) from that question.
The supply that retailers there building out I guess let's say your future sale or lease back pipeline.
Do you still think that the growth is rational or are there some categories where you could see becoming another Family Dollar situation where they have to (inaudible) growth and close a few stores?  Well going back to Family Dollar they're actually going to increase their store count.
So they're going to add more stores than they close.
I meant just bringing down the rate of growth that they won’t expected?  Yes yes.
Well we monitor that very carefully and look at potential saturation issues and we're certainly comfortable with tenants in the industries and our portfolio right now.
And we're not Jonathan we're really not seen any of that.
All right.
Thanks a lot John.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Vikram Malhotra with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys good afternoon.
Could you give just give us a break down after 1.5% same-store rent courses how that kind of pan across maybe retail in the other segments?  On the investment grade is that what you're asking?  No the same-store rent the 1.5% same-store rent growth.
Could you just kind of break that out between maybe retail and office industrial et cetera?  Yeah the majority of that came from the retail sector I don’t have the exact percentage Paul do you have that in front of you?  Yeah there were good we call it good surprises you are talking about the percentage rent right?  Yes.
Yes the percentage rent was quite robust generally speaking about 50% of our percentage revenue get in the first quarter about 30% we get in the fourth quarter and remainder throughout the other parts of the year so its going to be a twin factor on first quarter results and that’s actually where you are seeing of robust revenue number this quarter was from the percentage rent and we had what I would describe as very good unlike these we are surprised renewal is going to be solid but the percentage rent came in really nicely from a couple QSR tenants and just a couple of other historic tenants where their results were better than we thought.
I wouldn’t say there is the story to share with you as it relates to trying to nail down maybe where consumer spending habits or anything like that so we don’t really haven’t seen like that to convey.
Okay sorry I was about I mean that’s useful Paul I was just kind of trying to get a sense the 1.5 was it like 2% on the industrial and office side versus like 1.5 1.25 on retailer I was just kind of get the breakup of that 1.5%? The same store rent grow that you reported for the 2 700 properties?  Yes roughly speaking on retail it was about 1.2% on industrial just under 2 manufacturing which we don’t have much 1% office about 1.75% and then agriculture again about 1.3%.
Okay got it.
And then just the 7% yield on the acquisitions is that assuming that's a cash yield initial cash yield?  Yes that's a cash yield.
Okay.
And so as you I mean look at kind of future acquisitions do you feel comfortable that kind of that you mentioned between relationships and non-relationships that kind of split will remain kind of be in that range over the next few quarters.
And is that given all the competition on for deals do you think the kind of the little bit benefit that you get on the pricing standpoint from relationships for whole crew as well?  Yes I think we said achieved about up to 20 to 25 basis points greater yield on relationship driven transactions and as we look at what we're working on in the pipeline.
And really just from judging from our business model over the last couple of years we know that we're going to run somewhere in the neighborhood of 75% 80% 85% of our activity should be relationship driven.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
What were the annual rentals on the investment grade rated properties that you made in the quarter? I know it's the overwhelming majority.
And then the remaining portion of that either below investment grade or non-rated kind of break out the rent bumps?  Yes on the investment grade for the quarter we had lease growth of about just under 1.5%.
And on the non-investment grade it was actually about the same a bit more.
It was then on your portfolio because where I was going with this is the acquisitions you made in the quarter?  That's on the acquisitions for the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you John.
And Sumit you gave the spread of your cost of capital I think you it was in excess of a 150 basis points.
Do you have the spread that was just over the cost of equity? Yes.
It was 35 basis points.
Okay.
And how does that kind of look relative to your raise you made in October and as well as March of last year? I think the equity that we raised in April was right around $40 and the way we’ve calculated our nominal cost of equity is on a volume graded average priced for the quarter.
So the price that we’ve assumed is $41 as the stock price and then of course we’ve taken -- the way we’ve traditionally calculated our cost -- nominal cost of equity.
And Todd today where the price is the cost of equity is about [6.3] so it’s about 70 basis point spread.
Our 10 year debt costs are just a bit over 4% so our blended WAC is right at about 5.2% today.
So actually our spreads are bit wider as we sit here today than where they were for the quarter.
And 160 155 for the quarter is right around our historical average.
So we're well north of our historical average today.
So we’ve been pleased with where our spreads held up here even though that market continues to be competitive and pricing tight.
That’s helpful.
Thank you John.
And Paul you tapped the accordion’s feature that extra 500 million.
Do you need it now is there a finite period for you to keep that outstanding I mean you just paid it down are you lying down the equity just kind of seeing what you’re -- how you feel about looking into midyear to have that $1.5 billion outstanding? Yes we’re going to leave that in place if you will that $1.5 billion of liquidity if you will run till May of ‘16 plus a one year extension option within our control so really May of 2017 so we feel really good about that having that running room with that.
And we see ourselves carrying some level of a balance on that facility.
Those of you like yourself have known us the long time might not be familiar with that you’re still just kind of pay down the line to zero pretty quickly at times but that’s when we had a smaller line was part of that.
And so now you’ll see us run a balance where we are today $285 million today and feel comfortable with that given the size of the company given that it really is our only piece of variable rate debt exposure in the balance sheet.
So we feel good about the $1.5 billion having that sort of capacity and how long we have left on that maturity wise.
And like I mentioned we’ll have a little bit of a balance on it on a regular basis.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
All right thank you.
You were talking about 75% plus of your acquisitions this quarter with relationship tenants.
How much of that is a first generation sale lease back versus acquiring properties with existing leases with tenants you have a relationship with? Yes.
You know about half 50% was sale lease back directly with the tenant and the other half were existing leases that we acquired primarily with tenants that we had established existing relationships with.
Okay.
When we think about the additional spreads you are talking about first generation sale lease back?  Well it can be more than that.
When we define relationships it’s we’re directly in negotiation with the tenant that we’re the only buyer.
But it also includes where we’re provided by the seller at last look the look at the investing in the property based on our relationship or we are able to secure the property at a lower price given our relationship with that tenant.
So it’s not exclusively sale lease back.
Okay.
In terms of the assets that were disclosed obviously it’s a small amount but it gets about $1 million per property.
What kind of assets were and how many of those were vacant? Yes.
Well the number of vacant properties of the 11 were 3 8 were leased and the types of assets these are we say that the assets that no longer fit our investment strategies.
It was some casual dining and some childcare centers that we had owned for a while that were neighborhoods squared the demographic that changed.
And really the neighborhoods were no longer going to support that use for the property and we elected to sell those.
So it’s generally in one of those segments that are very much out of favor with us.
Okay.
And just final question in regards to leasing so when I look at the occupancy gain this quarter it appears to me that I think a lot of that would come from acquisitions given that you buy 100% property it seems the vast majority of the occupancy gains are actually due to buy 100% assets.
How many properties that came due for renewal were renewed this quarter and how many of the vacant property that you have at December 31 has been really and are currently occupied? Okay.
Well so far we’ve had I think it was 45 this year that we rolled and renewed either for the existing tenant -- 90% of those went to the existing tenants with remainder going to new tenants.
And then you’re right with regard to the occupancy we had 70 properties vacant a year ago I am sorry a quarter ago and then we had 73 vacant at this quarter end.
So occupancy really would have been flat rather than ticking up by one tenth of a percent; acquisitions [drove] that.
But on a year-over-year basis it would still have grown just a bit because we have 73 properties vacant at the end of the quarter versus I think it was 81 at the end of the quarter in 2013.
Okay.
So how would you describe the environment in terms of being able to lease the currently vacant property where you at negotiations [what are] the offices you can lease them versus deciding to sell them? Yes.
Well the portfolio is performing well and the tenants are doing well and that environment is leading some more releasing on these vacant assets than sale.
And it’s very attractive term so the majority the vast majority of these taken assets are being re-leased rather than sold right now.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Yes hi guys good afternoon.
Just to expand for a second on Cedrik’s question you have a 119 leases expiring for the rest of the year and I'm curious are you saying that probably 90% of those are renewed is that the idea that's through the renewal rate as you think about the years going forward including this year? Yes this year we're expecting about 90% of those to renew probably 5% will be leased to tenants and 5% sold.
Over the longer history of the company if you go back to since the mid 90s that number has been 70% of the [roles] would go to the existing tenant 20% the tenant and 10% would sold and reinvested in new properties.
We've gotten a bit better at that over the last 10 years and certainly a bit of stronger economic environment today leading to even better numbers.
So that's where the 95% and 5% are coming from Rich.
Okay good John.
Thank you that's helpful.
Then just in general I mean how are you viewing the whole I mean we watched the mall guys for example report and they have all seen increases in bad debt they talked more about bankruptcies picking up.
And I'm curious do you guys seeing more store closings more bankruptcies? And then what is your bad debt situation or your aging on your accounts receivable I mean are you seeing any changes I guess with regard to tenants on any of that? Right now the tenants are in good shape and even the ones that -- the casual dining tenants that we've had that is gone through a couple of bankruptcies are performing well.
So our watch list has gone from probably 23% four years ago to just over 5% today and that watch list is that flat category that we are looking at those tenants very closely and monitoring their operations because they’ve been under some level of stress.
In fact couple of these casual dining concepts and one of the QSRs that we’ve been concern about from a credit perspective contributed to our percentage rents this quarter and are performing well.
So I’m not going wood here Rich the portfolio is in good shape.
Okay.
So no pick up in bad debt for you guys or…  Let me add Paul address the bad debt.
Yes and I’ll give you a few numbers Rich that might be instructive in 2009 bad debt expenses 1.9 million; 2010 1.2 million; 2011 650 000; 2012 500 000; last year 250 000.
And the first quarter of this year so far it’s been 59 000.
So obviously there is no issue there that’s popped up in those numbers and that will be figure that on an annualized basis what about 240 000 or the lowest bad debt expense here we had in about 10 years.
So from that standpoint I think we’ve done a nice job pruning the portfolio of a lot of these tenants that have given that these computations in the past.
So while we are not had an outstanding economic environment by any stretch of the imagination over the last five years we’ve seen it slowly improve and we're pleased with the progress there.
Very good yes that’s impressive you guys always come prepared I like that great.
And then the last thing for me is the disposition strategy I’m not sure quite understand that you guys are so big 44 000 plus properties and you sell a dozen almost seems like it’s not worthy effort to even bother with dispositions if it’s so tiny.
I mean how do you view the whole family I mean is it someone approaches you and is looking at property that kind of thing is that what’s happening? No we have an asset management group that looks at assets where we think we’re better off selling those.
And we’re also looking at the roles and the vacant properties and considering selling some of those.
So it’s a proactive and not a reactive approach.
And it’s one that we’ve only put into place in the last couple of year.
So we’ve grown it last year.
We’ve sold $134 million in dispositions and again the properties that really don’t meet the investment parameters today or perhaps they are a property that may meet the investment parameter today but longer-term we think they could be turned into an issue for some reason maybe the markets declining or maybe we have some exposure on our rents or something like that.
So it will continue to be more material than it has in the past.
This year we’re seeing $75 million now but it’s a worthwhile exercise.
And fortunately we don’t have a $1 billion slug of assets that we need to sell.
I think we’ve done a pretty effective job of underwriting and managing the portfolio.
So this is about a level that we’re comfortable with.
And I think we’ll continue to see it around the $75 million to $100 million upto maybe a $150 million in some years.
But I don’t think it’s going to be significantly larger than that.
Remember a lot of our growth has come over the last five years and I think we’ve underwritten those opportunities well and they’re not going to be really considered to this type of activity for the most part.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer potion of Realty Income's conference call.
I will now turn the call over to John Case for closing remarks.
Thanks Lorenzo and thank you for everyone -- thanks everyone for joining us today.
We really appreciate your time.
We look forward to seeing the conferences coming often.
Have a good evening or afternoon where you are.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude Realty Income's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
We’d like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Realty Income Second Quarter 2014 Operating Results Conference Call.
Please note today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Janeen Bedard Associate Vice President.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Joshua and thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income’s Second Quarter 2014 Operating Results Conference Call.
Discussing our results will be John Case Chief Executive Officer; Paul Meurer Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Sumit Roy Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer.
During this call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The company’s actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater detail the factors that may cause such differences in the company’s Form 10-Q.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Case.
Thanks Janeen and good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call.
We had another solid quarter of operating results with AFFO per share increasing 8.5% to $0.64 and we are pleased with the continued consistency of our business.
I will start with Paul providing you an overview of our financial results.
Paul? Thanks John.
So as usual I will comment on the financial statements to provide a few highlights of our financial results for the quarter starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 22.6% for the quarter and this increase obviously reflects our growth from new acquisitions over the past year as well as some healthy same-store rental growth in the portfolio.
Our annualized rental revenue now as of and at June 30 annualized was approximately $897 million.
On expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased to almost $93 million in the quarter as depreciation expense has obviously increased with our portfolio growth.
Interest expense increased in the quarter to $52.7 million.
This increase was primarily due to the $750 million issuance of 10-year bonds last July as well as higher mortgage interest and credit facility borrowings during this past current quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios did both remained strong with interest coverage at 3.7 times and fixed charge coverage at 3.1 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses in the quarter were approximately $11.6 million.
Our G&amp;A as a percentage total rental and other revenues has decreased to only 5.2% of revenues and our projection for G&amp;A for 2014 remains at approximately $50 million.
Property expenses were $10.1 million in the quarter.
However just a reminder this amount includes $6.2 million of property expenses reimbursed by tenants that you can see up in the revenue line.
The property expenses that we are responsible for were approximately $3.9 million in the quarter.
And our projection for 2014 of property expenses that we are responsible for remains approximately $16.5 million.
Income taxes consists of income taxes paid to various states by the company and they were $570 000 for the quarter.
Provisions for impairment includes just under $500 000 of impairments we recorded on two properties held for sale at June 30th.
Gain on sales of approximately $2 million includes the gains from the sale of six properties during the quarter for gross proceeds of $7 million.
Discontinued operations only refers to properties that were already held for sale as of year-end 2013.
So reminder that last quarter we elected early adoption of the new accounting regulations for property sales.
So all of our property sales gains impairments and other related revenues and expenses associated with properties that are for sale or held of sale now appears through the income statement as opposed to being aggregated in the discontinued operations line.
And again the exception to that is one property was already held for sale as of yearend 2013.
Deferred stock cash dividend totaled approximately $10.5 million for the quarter.
Net income available to common stockholders was approximately $51.4 million for the quarter.
Funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.64 a 6.7% increase versus a year ago.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution and dividends was $0.64 per share for the quarter or 8.5% increase versus a year ago.
We again increased our cash monthly dividend this quarter and our monthly divided now equates to current annualized amount of approximately $2.194 per share.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we have continued to maintain a very conservative and safe capital structure.
As you know in early April we raised $529 million of new capital with a common equity offering.
We also raised $52 million of additional common equity through our direct stock purchase plan during the quarter.
And in late June we've raised %350 million with a 10-year bond offering priced at 3.88% yield.
Proceeds from all of these offerings were used to repay borrowings on our $1.5 billion acquisition credit facility which had a balance at June 30th of $70.8 million.
We did assume approximately $114 million of in place mortgages during the second quarter.
So our outstanding net mortgage debt at quarter end increased to approximately $892 million.
Our bonds which are all unsecured and fixed rate and continue to be rated Baa1 BBB+ have a weighted average maturity of 7.4 years.
Our overall debt maturities schedule is in good shape with only $57 million of mortgage principle payments during the second half of 2014 and $125 million in 2015.
And our next bond maturity is only $150 million due in November of 2015.
Our debt-to-EBITDA at quarter end was only 5.5 times.
Currently our total debt to total market cap is approximately 30% and our preferred stock outstanding is only 4% of our capital structure.
So in summary our earnings growth is very positive while our balance sheet remained very healthy and safe.
Now let me turn the call back over to John who will continue to give you background on these results.
Thanks Paul.
I’ll begin with an overview of the portfolio which continues to be quite healthy.
Our tenants are continuing to doing well based on what we're seeing today.
Occupancy remains consistent with the previous quarter at 98.3% based on the number of properties with 74 properties available for lease out of 4 263 properties.
Occupancy is up 10 basis points from one year ago.
Occupancy based on square footage is 99% economic occupancy is 99.1%.
During the quarter we had leases expire on 40 properties.
Of these assets we released 33 to existing tenants 4 to new tenants and sold two with one remaining vacant at the end of the quarter.
We increased the rental revenue on these released properties by 3% with the second quarter leasing activity.
We expect our occupancy to remain fairly stable for the remainder of the year.
Our portfolio remains diversified by tenant industry geography and to a certain extent property type.
At the end of the second quarter our properties were leased to 228 commercial tenants and 47 different industries located in 49 states and Puerto Rico 78% of our rental revenues from our traditional retail properties while 22% is from non-retail properties.
The largest component being industrial and distribution.
We believe our diversification leads to more predictable and dependable cash flow streams to our shareholders.
Moving on to the tenant base at the end of the second quarter our 15 largest tenants accounted for 45.8% of rental revenue and our largest 20 tenants accounted for 52.3% of rental revenue.
Beginning this quarter we will start disclosing our top 20 tenants.
The next 5 tenants being our 15 largest account for 6.5% of rental revenue.
We believe the additional disclosure will provide investors more insight on our material tenants without jeopardizing our competitive position in the sector.
The tenants in our top 20 capture nearly every tenant representing more than 1% of our rental revenue.
The new disclosure is part of a broader effort we are starting this quarter to provide additional disclosure beyond what we have previously provide to give our analysts and investors even better insight into our business.
We’ve listened to our market constituents and designed a supplemental investor package to provide more information on our company’s operations and put previously disclosed information in the K and in our Qs in a more easily accessible format by also incorporating it into the supplement.
So with the following our 10-Q this afternoon we will be furnishing an 8-K with a supplemental investor package that will also be available on our website.
We want to lead the way in the net lease sector to providing greater transparency for our investors.
We hope that this will enable our shareholders and perspective shareholders to more efficiently evaluate our operations and we look forward to discussing our new supplement with you in the ensuing months.
There have been no material changes to our top 15 or top 20 tenants since the first quarter.
We’ve made significant strides over the last five years and diversifying our tenant base and our rental revenues.
Today our top 20 accounts were 52% of our rental revenue versus 62% and the beginning of 2010.
The percentages moved down while the composition of tenants from a performance and credit perspective has markedly improved.
Today eight of our top 20 tenants have investment grade credit ratings and at the beginning of 2010 none of our top 20 tenants had investment grade ratings.
The non-investment grade tenants in our top 20 which are all retail are were also higher quality more substantive businesses than the non-investment grade tenants we had in our top 20 in 2010.
Today the non- investment grade retail tenants in top 20 have averaged annual revenues of about $5.5 billion versus just over $3 billion in 2010.
Our top 20 tenants today include the top three drug store chains the top two dollar store chains the top two movie theatre chains two of the top three wholesale clubs the second largest independent tire dealer the largest quick service restaurant franchise the number one fitness club operator in the U.S.
FedEx and [DRGO] (ph) two global Fortune 300 companies that are clear leaders in their industries and our convenient store tenants that are dominant operators in their respective regions.
And as we've improved the quality of our top 20 tenants we've also improved the quality of our real estate locations.
Within our portfolio no single tenant accounts for more than 5.2% of rental revenues so diversification by tenant remains favorable.
Walgreens continues to be our largest tenant at 5.2% of rental revenue which is down slightly from last quarter.
FedEx remains our second largest tenant at 5% which is also down slightly from last quarter.
Dollar General is our third largest tenant today at just under 5% LA Fitness and Family Dollar were at 4.6% and 4.5% respectively.
All other tenants throughout of the world were 2.9% of rental revenues.
When you go to the 15th largest tenant which remains Walmart/Sam's Club it represents 1.5% of rental revenue.
If you move in other five spots and go to our 20th largest tenant which is Camping World it represents only 1.2% of rental revenue.
Moving to our 35th largest tenant it accounts for just 0.5% of rental revenue and the percentages trail off from there.
We also increased the number of tenants on our portfolio this quarter by 17 further diversifying our tenant base.
Moving on to industry convenient stores remain our largest industry but continue to decline as a percentage of our rental revenue.
Convenient stores now represent 10.2% of rental revenue.
Dollar stores are now at 9.8% up from 9.1% last quarter.
With lower and middle consumers remaining under pressure we continue to like the discount orientation of the dollar store industry.
And Dollar General and Family Dollar remain the dominant players in this industry.
Drugstores are at 9.5%.
Health and fitness is at 7% and all other industry categories are at or below 5.2% of rental revenue.
Looking at property type retail continues to represent our primary source of rental revenue currently at 78% with industrial and distribution at 11% office at 7% and the remainder evenly divided between light manufacturing and agriculture.
We continue to focus on retail tenants that meet our investment parameters.
More than 90% of our retail portfolio continues to have a service non-discretionary or low price point component to their business.
These characteristics better position our tenants to successfully operate in all economic environments and make them less vulnerable to internet competition.
Our weighted average remaining lease term continues to be a little less than 11 years at 10.6 years.
Our same-store rents increased 1.4% during the quarter and year-to-date generally consistent with our long-term average.
The industry is contributing most to our quarterly same-store rent growth for convenient stores automotive tire service and health and fitness.
We expect our growth rate to continue to be in the 1.4% to 1.5% range.
The tenant credit quality of the portfolio continues to be strong with 44% of our rental revenue generated from investment grade tenants.
Again we define an investment grade rated company that’s having an investment grade rating by one or more of the three major rating agencies.
This revenue percentage is also up from 38% one year ago We continued to generate solid rental growth from these investment grade tenants.
70% of our investment grade leases have rental rate increases in them.
Overall annual rental growth from investment grade tenants is 1%.
In addition to tenant credit the store level performance of our retail tenants remains positive.
Our rent coverage ratio or EBITDA to rent ratio on our retail properties is approximately 2.6 times.
Moving on to property acquisitions.
As you know we had an active second quarter continuing our momentum from the beginning of the year.
We continue to capitalize on our extensive industry relationship developed over our 45-year operating history to generate quality acquisition opportunities.
We completed 405 million in acquisitions during the quarter at an initial yield of 7.3%.
Today's investment spreads are well above our historical average.
As a reminder our initial yields are cash yields and not GAAP cap rates which tend to be higher due to straight-lining the rent.
We define cash cap rates as contractual cash net operating income for the first 12 months of each lease following the acquisition the date divided by the total cost of the property including all expenses borne by reality income including third-party reports transfer taxes and brokerage fees.
Included in these acquisitions is the remaining $229 million of the $503 million transaction within when diversified.
That is now fully closed.
Year-to-date this brings us to $1.06 billion in completed acquisition.
This is a record amount of property level acquisitions for the first half of any year in the company’s history.
Given our very active first six months of the year we are raising our acquisitions guidance for 2014 from $1.2 billion to approximately $1.4 billion.
We will continue to remain selective and disciplined in our acquisition activity.
Now I would like to hand it over to Sumit to provide additional details on our acquisitions.
Thank you John.
During the second quarter of 2014 we invested $405.1 million in 73 properties located in 27 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 7.3% and with a weighted average lease term of 10.6 years.
Out of the total amount approximately 40% or $157 million was invested in non-investment grade retail properties.
On a revenue basis 55% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants.
76% of the revenues are generated from retail 9% are from industrial distribution and manufacturing and 15% are from office.
All of the office assets are part of the previously announced inland transaction.
These assets are leased to 33 different tenants in 22 industries.
Some of the more significant industries represented are home improvement and diversified industrial.
Year-to-date 2014 we've invested $1.06 billion in 402 properties located in 39 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 7.1% and with the warhead average lease term of 12.8 years.
Out of the total amount approximately a quarter or 243 million was invested in non-investment grade retail properties.
Since 2010 we have invested over 2 billion in non-investment grade retail properties which is the most active period in the company's history for acquisitions of this property segment.
On a revenue basis 73% of total acquisitions are from investment-grade tenant.
83% of the revenues are generated from retail 9% are from industry distribution and manufacturing and 8% are from offices.
These assets are leased to 45 different tenants in 24 industries.
Some of the more significant industries represented are dollar stores drug stores and home improvement.
Transaction flow remains healthy.
We sourced more than 6 billion in the second quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date we have sourced more than 14 billion in potential transaction opportunity which put us in pace to make 2014 the year with the second largest volume sourced in our company's history.
Of these opportunities 79% of the volumes sourced were portfolios and 21% or $3 billion were one-off assets.
Investment grade opportunities typically represent 30% to 45% of the volume source.
We came in at 37% for the second quarter in line with our long-term average.
Off the $405.1 million acquisitions closed in the second quarter approximately 20% were one-off transactions 88% of the transactions closed in the second quarter were relationship driven.
We continue to utilize our relationships and look for the best real estate opportunities regardless of tenants credit ratings in a one-off or a portfolio transaction to help us achieve the optimal risk adjusted returns.
We do this by remaining very selective and disciplined in our investment approach.
As to pricing cap rates tightened 15 to 20 basis points in the second quarter with investment grade properties trading from high 5% to high 6% cap rate range and non-investment grade properties trading from high 6% to low 8% cap rate range.
Our investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital were very healthy averaging 215 basis points in the second quarter and a 185 basis points year-to-date which was significantly above our historical average spreads.
We defined investment spread as initial cash yield less our nominal first year weighted average cost of capital.
We are continuing to make investments above our historic spreads whilst improving our real estate portfolio tenant quality credit quality and overall diversification.
In conclusion the second quarter investments remained healthy at 405 million.
Year-to-date we have invested 1.06 billion while sourcing over 14 billion in transactions.
Although cap rate compression was evident in the second quarter our cost of capital continue to improve and as a result our spreads remained comfortably above historical level.
Also even though our sourcing volumes remained robust for both retail and non-retail assets the investment grade and non-investment grade tenants and single asset and portfolio deals we continue to be very selective in pursuing opportunities that are inline with our strategic objectives and within our acquisition parameters.
We remained confident of reaching our updated investment goal of approximately 1.4 billion for 2014.
With that I would like to hand it back to John.
Thank you.
Thanks Sumit.
Moving on to property dispositions we continue selling select properties and redeploying the capital into investments that better fit our investment strategy.
During the quarter we sold six properties for $7 million at an unlevered internal rate of return of approximately 9%.
This brings us to 17 properties sold during the year for 20 million at an unlevered IRR of approximately 10% and a cap rate of 8.4% on the least property sold.
Disposition activity should ramp up during the second half of the years so we continue to anticipate dispositions for 2014 to be approximately 75 million.
Moving on to our capital raising activities as Paul mentioned we were quite active during the quarter raising just under 1 billion in permanent and long-term capital.
Approximately two-thirds of this capital was equity and one-third was 10 year unsecured debt.
The capital was used to find acquisitions and to reduce the outstanding balance on the credit facility.
We now have over $1.4 billion available on our law and to support future acquisitions activity and our balance sheet continues to be in great shape.
We continue to enjoy excellent access to attractively priced permanent and long-term capital.
We continue to see healthy per share earnings growth while maintaining a leveraged neutral balance sheet.
Our FFO and AFFO per share of $0.64 in the second quarter represented increases of 6.7% and 8.5% respectively from a year ago.
Given our robust level of acquisitions during the first half of the year and increased visibility on our operations we are adjusting our FFO and AFFO for share guidance from our initial estimates of $2.53 to $2.58 per share.
We are raising our 2014 FFO per share guidance to $2.59 to $2.62 which represents an 8.1% increase at the mid-point of the range over our 2013 FFO.
And we are tightening and raising the mid-point of our AFFO per share guidance to $2.55 to $2.57 which represents a 6.2% increase at the mid-point of the range over our 2013 AFFO.
Our earnings growth continues to support reliable and growing monthly dividend.
We reached the company milestone in June surpassing $3 billion in dividends paid to our shareholders over the company’s 45 year history.
We’ve increased the dividend every since the company’s listing in 1994 and our dividend has grown at a compounded average annual growth rate of approximately 5% during that time.
We are proud of our long history of consistent dividend growth.
Our payout ratio during the second quarter was 85.5% of our AFFO which is at a level we continue to be comfortable with.
Again we are pleased with our company's operating performance for the first half of the year.
And looking forward we continue to see an active but competitive acquisitions market.
We are confident we will continue to execute attractive acquisitions that are consistent with our investment strategy.
While cap rates remain under pressure we continue to see investments spread and its well above our historical average given a favorable cost of capital.
With that I would like to open it up for questions.
Joshua?  Thank you so much sir.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Jonathan Pong with Robert W.
Baird.
Hi good afternoon guys.
John just a quick question on the EBITDA rent coverage ratio you mentioned is that a four wall number or does that includes some kind of corporate allocation? That’s a four wall number and pre G&amp;A.
Most recent quarter annualized.
Got it.
And do you guys have number with [DA] (ph) that include sort of allocation? No.
Wait which number you are asking about you are taking about debt to EBITDA or you are talking about the cash flow coverage? The EBITDA rent coverage [2.6] (ph) I believe? Sorry that is a four wall for the retail properties in the portfolio.
And that does include some allocation for corporate G&amp;A expense in that calculation as part of our underwriting.
Okay.
Great.
And then going back to the assets sales it does seems to be a little slower phase so far this year.
Is that really a function of your watch list doing the link down? And then if so have you guys considered refreshing of the criteria for those assets like [Minnesota] (ph) to take advantage to supply appetite out there right now.
Yeah.
So really it's a function of the assets sales being a bit unpredictable.
We knew a number of them we're going to be backend loaded this year.
So we still anticipate $75 million and when we look at our watch list right at properties combined with tenant credit.
It represents about 1.5% of our overall rental revenue.
And those are – those are properties we're considering selling but not all of which we will sell.
There are just once we are watching closely either based on credit issue or perhaps property location issue Jonathan.
Okay.
So that 75 million do you see that trending down significantly as we head into 2015? It could it's all going to be function what goes on or off of the watch list and as that evolves that's blew it and something we look at constantly.
So we if it were to decline we would see less property sales activity and if it were to increase we would probably see more property sales activity.
Great.
And then lastly question just sort of on your cost of capital as I think about that.
Given how low it is right now where your spreads are.
At the margin does that compel you guys to pursue more of the investment grade maybe sub 7 cap rate deals while still preserving that spread or does that make you think about just maximizing that spread and continuing to acquire more of a blend? Yes what we are doing from an acquisition standpoint is pursuing both non-investment grade and investment grade properties that’s meet our investment parameters and offers the best returns on a risk-adjusted basis.
So that’s the factored our cost of capital is low right now.
It’s not driving us to try to do more higher yielding assets or lower yielding assets.
We are just looking at the best opportunity based on our investment strategy and the risk adjusted return offered by both non-investment grade and investment grade opportunities.
All right.
That’s helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Jonathan.
And we’ll take our next question from Vikram Malhotra with Morgan Stanley.
Hi guys.
Thanks for providing the additional information and the release and then look forward to going through the supplements.
Just wanted to clarify the 5 million or the $5.2 million increase on the leases or lease is signed – be signed were most of that – was most of that retail or was there decent some office or industrial component to it? Yes it was virtually all retail.
I think it was 99% maybe even 99.9% retail.
Okay just wanted to clarify.
And then Sumit just on the acquisition I noticed the remaining lease term kind of was a little lower than what you typically done in 2012 2013 and probably the first quarter of this year was there kind of any bunch of assets that kind of drove that remaining lease termed down towards 2010 from 2014? When we are buying assets across the spectrum where its portfolio deals etcetera you’ll find assets that tend to be in the low double-digit area in 2010 and in some cases even high single-digit area.
So when you blend it out it came out to be 10.6 but this is not to be viewed as this is what we are doing in order to get higher spreads.
If you look at what we did in 2011 in fact in the third quarter average lease term there was in the high single-digits and if you look at year-to-date what our average is been it’s been about 12.8 a year.
And so and that's where we expected to end up by the end of the year.
So I won't read anything into it more so than that's where it ended up for the second quarter.
Okay.
And then just last one I mean you talked about declining cap rates again 2Q given where your cost of capital less than and you obviously updated the acquisition guidance but what would make you say I want to be even more selective in that sense would not really going forward kind of take that $1.4 billion even higher.
So what would make you get even more selective? If you see what we’ve done I mean we’ve done a $1 billion a 1.06 billion and we’ve increased it by 350 million despite seeing very healthy sourcing volumes.
That in itself should be an indication to you as to are selectiveness.
Look I mean given our cost of capital advantages today we could be pursuing a much higher volume if we chose to do so and making very reasonable spreads.
But what we are starting to see is a mispricing of assets where we don't feel compelled despite the fact that we could create value for our shareholders in pursuing those opportunities.
So I think we are going to remain very very selective and that's indicated by John in terms of what our guidance is for the year.
Yeah.
So we actually executed 7% of what we executed and close 7% of what we've sourced.
If we were to relax our investment parameters and standards we could crank our volume up of closed transactions quite a bit but the intent is not to do that soon.
So we will remain selective.
And as we sit here today it looks like that approximately $1.4 billion in total for the year looks like a pretty good number for us.
And just lastly on just to clarify on the competition that you mentioned are you seeing a different composition in terms of the competition? And you kind of alluded to the fact that there's probably a lot of aggressive bidding which is why you're being a little selective but is that type of competition changing in any way? No.
It really hasn't -- it's a mix of the other public net lease REITs the non listed net lease REITs.
We do bump into some of the mortgage REITs; we do bump into some institutional investment managers that are running income-oriented money in the net lease sector that was probably once year-marked for the bond sector.
So it's generally the same cast of characters but they are well capitalized and there is a contingent to be a bit more capital out there.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks guy and thanks again for the additional info.
Okay.
Thanks Vikram.
And we'll move next to Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Hi guys.
Just a echo of the previous comment that you are really seeing discloser was really helpful.
Are these about the right percentages to assume for the remainder of the year just when you think about releasing and you know ultimately with your success in doing this does this give you any appetite for short or medium-term leases may with tenants you already have a deep relationship with just kind of seeing what the opportunities are for some higher yielding opportunities if you have expertise in this? Yeah.
Let me first had -- in terms of you know where are our roll you know roll up was in rents this past quarter.
You know we were able to increase some 3% on our releasing activity.
Over the life of the company we have been able to preserve about 95% 96% of the expiring rents.
So as we look forward you know over recent years we've been doing better than our long-term average.
So we would expect to be north of our long-term average and we would hope we would be able to continue you know at around a 100% or north of that.
And then just part two to that is that create any opportunities for you guys to look at opportunities outside of you know 10 12 15 year leases and look at stuff maybe with five to seven years left that may become a little higher risk but also higher yield but that you probably can renew? You know we emphasize longer term leases there are situations Todd where when we go out with a lease term like we did average lease term of 10.6 years like we did this quarter we are buying some assets that have shorter lease terms south of that.
Those are assets that we are very comfortable with and we think their excellent releasing opportunities whether they be with the same tenant or with new tenants given the strength of the market and the quality of the real estate.
So we are still going to focus on longer term leases and lease averages but we will look at those types of opportunities.
And we always – and we have – this is not the first year or quarter we’ve done that.
We’ve done that but we have four 40 people on our property management division we have executed over approximately 1 700 lease rollovers in our company’s history.
We think we are really good at this.
We have a great team executing this so it’s something that we will certainly consider and have considered because there are some pretty good opportunities there.
That’s helpful John.
Thank you.
And just going back just to touch on the rent coverage I think portfolio wide you said it was 2.6 times.
How much can you breakout can you breakout any coverage whether the – your mandated coverage on an investment grade opportunity non-investment grade and if you look at it that way on retail office and industrial? Well it’s all on retail because what it is it’s a four wall coverage.
So we don’t get it on industrial properties or manufacturing.
It's almost all non-investment grade.
So represents primarily the non-investment grade retail portfolio.
Okay.
And then just going back and looking at the Inland portfolio acquisition it certainly closed over few quarters.
What was your initial cash yield on that portfolio indeed your investment spread change it all because it was spread out over few quarters and the long term capital that you source was also split out a little bit? Yeah as you know I think we’ve mentioned before Todd we are underwriting confidentiality agreement so we can’t disclose specific items about the Inland transaction.
But in terms of the yield assume the initial yield was in the range of what we’ve been closing on average the first and second quarter of this year.
And as far as the actual spread that was an accretive transaction for us and we were closing that in stages but the spread remain fairly consistent but as the stock price appreciated in the last quarter it picked up.
So I think it was in the 185 basis points area overall.
Okay.
And does that confidentiality agreement have an exploration date or that’s kind of ongoing? Its one year and to about six months from now we can provide you more detail on that.
Great thank you.
Okay thanks Todd.
And we will take our next question from Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Just want to go back to the acquisition volume and the pace at which you are buying.
It’s interesting to hear of course how selective you are despite you have very low cost of capital.
How do you underwrite big portfolios right now and how do you think about the big portfolios that could be available to you versus the more right size acquisitions that are out there? Yeah looking at both one-off small opportunities smaller portfolios we’re looking at large portfolios and we look at any delevel transactions private and public entity level transactions that maybe out there.
First of all a transaction has to meet our investment parameters and be strategic for us.
And when we look at the one-off in smaller portfolios those are generally trading at higher yields than the larger portfolios maybe 10 to 20 basis points and then when you look at large entity level transactions those are priced at 50 plus basis point premiums or lower yields and where those properties in that portfolio will trade on a one-off basis.
So we really look at it from a bottoms-up approach and it doesn’t make sense for the company.
And if it does we’ll move on the larger portfolios but as we know we have a fairly disciplined and rigorous underwriting strategy.
And have you seen – outside of entity level possibilities? Have you seen large portfolios becoming available lately? Yes.
As Sumit said our source transaction volume continues to be very high.
We are on target to have our second best year ever in terms of source transactions 80% of what we're sourcing are midsize to larger portfolio transactions.
Okay.
Great.
Just going back to the EBITDA question are you able to give us the sense of the range a little bit and perhaps what percentage of your portfolio is with retail tenants that have EBITDA levels and your properties that are at a point where you would considered selling the properties? Yeah.
I mean the EBITDA the rent ranges from less than one on some properties to more than five.
So the range is quite board.
Certainly when we get to coverage's that are tight or less than one we look at those assets quite closely and the real estate locations and they potentially go under the watch list.
So the range is – the range is broad but around one to five times.
And what percentage would be below one for instance or around one to below one? Very few I don't have the exact percentage but very few I mean it is pretty much of a bell curve.
Okay.
And then just one final question like everyone I appreciate the additional discloser on the vacancies so the properties were vacant.
Do you have a sense of the average amount of time these properties have been vacant.
So I guess what I am asking is are there some quasi-permanent vacancies properties that probably are impossible to release or do you have really assets that you think over a short period of time you should be able to release? Yes.
I mean of the vacant properties that we have or have sold the average vacancy has been between six and 12 months.
So that should give you an idea of what the vacant period has been.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will move on to Dan Donlan with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Just one kind of quick question from me John or for Sumit.
How many deals have you done this year that have carried a cap rate north of 8%? And is that something that you guys are looking at or is most everything kind of inline with the averages that you brought for the quarter? Yes.
I mean we have done north of eight south of seven down into the mid sixes at all the 10s.
The exact percentage that we have done north of eight.
Sumit do you have that.
I don’t.
But I would say it’s less than 5% of what we have closed its north of 8% cap rate.
And when you get to that level Dan you don’t find much that falls within our investment parameters that we want to execute.
So it’s certainly price to that level given some of the risk characteristics that the investments caring.
There can be exceptions but not many.
And of course we are talking about cash cap rates versus GAAP cap rates.
The only other thing I would John is where we see the higher yielding stuff it’s been in our expansions and developments where we are seeing and you will see that in the supplemental.
We are seeing about an 8% yield.
But one-off transactions acquisition transactions add about eight I would say it’s a very small percentage of what we’ve closed down and it’s primarily based on what John said.
There are assets we see that trade up those levels but for many different reasons we chose not to pursue those.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Dan.
And we’ll take our next question from Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Hey guys good afternoon.
Hey Ross.
I joined late so apologies if you discussed this but you turned down the DRIP program in the second quarter and what about over $50 million got tapped there is it your intention going forward to leave the DRIP open? Yeah we will opportunistically access that.
In the month June we’ve raised about 53 million at a price just north of $44 a share I think its 44.35 and as we continue to have acquisition activity that's pretty healthy and that's need to be funded.
We’ll opportunistically access that.
So we’ll look at it but it’s – we don’t have a set plan and place to do a certain amount each quarter.
I’m just curious how you think about DRIP versus an ATM programs so basically sort of dribbling it retail versus dribbling it institutionally? Well our direct stock purchase program goes to both institution and retail.
Sure.
But I imagine most of the buyers were retail than institution on that? We actually control that and actually the majority of the buyers were institutions.
Really that’s interesting.
Yeah.
I wouldn’t expect that okay.
The other question I have is your friend store over capital on the security there been any comments on their plans to go public is that a surprise to you or did you think that was going to be on some of these acquisition radar? So we are focused on running our own business.
We know those guys well and have a tremendous amount of respect for Chris and [Mark] (ph).
And wish them luck in their endeavors.
But we don’t comment on any specific IPOs or any other questions regarding the business of our competitors.
I appreciate it.
Thanks a lot.
All right.
Thanks.
And we will move on to Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Hey Todd.
Most of my questions have been answered I just had one point of clarification I guess on the initial average lease deal but you guys report in.
I know generally not an issue where you guys are paying for maintenance CapEx at all but sometimes I think that’s kept into the leases.
The lease deal you report is that include or exclude any outlets that you guys may have for maintenance CapEx in those deals? Yes it’s NOI yield so if they are recurring CapEx numbers they are going to be below that line but we have very little of that in our net lease portfolio.
Got you.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And this will conclude the question-and-answer portion of Realty Income’s conference call.
I will now turn the conference back over to John Case for concluding remarks.
All right.
Thanks Joshua and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking to you next quarter.
And have a good end of the summer.
Take care.
And this concludes today conference.
As a final reminder the replay for this call is available by dialing 1-888-203-1112 and using the access code 3275991.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Realty Income Third Quarter 2014 Operating Results Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Janeen Bedard Associate Vice President.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you operator.
And thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income’s Third Quarter 2014 Operating Results Conference Call.
Discussing our results will be John Case Chief Executive Officer; Paul Meurer Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Sumit Roy Chief Operating Officer and Chief Investment Officer.
During this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater detail the factors that may cause such differences in the company's Form 10-Q.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Case.
Thanks Janeen.
And good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call.
We're pleased with our third quarter results with AFFO per share increasing by 6.7% to $0.64.
As announced in yesterday’s press release we are reiterating our 2014 AFFO guidance per share of $2.55 to $2.57 so we anticipate another solid year of earnings growth.
Paul will provide you with an overview of the earnings numbers.
Paul? Thanks John.
As usual I will briefly comment on our financial statements and provide some highlights of our financial results for the quarter.
I’ll start by highlighting a few line items in our income statement.
Total revenue increased 16.6% for the quarter.
This increase reflects our growth primarily from new acquisitions over the past year as well as same-store rent growth.
Our annualized rental revenue at September 30th was approximately $912 million.
On the expense side interest expense increased in the quarter to $52.8 million.
This increase was primarily due to our two recent bond offerings the $350 million tenure notes issued in June and a $250 million 12 year notes issued in September.
Interest expense was also impacted this quarter by the reclassification of approximately one month of preferred dividends as interest expense.
Because we issued the redemption notice for our outstanding Preferred E Stock before quarter-end we needed to reclassify the Preferred E Stock as a liability at quarter-end and about one month of preferred dividends as interest expense.
This increased interest expense during the quarter by $1.2 million.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remained strong with interest coverage at 3.7 times and fixed charge coverage at 3.3 times.
General and administrative expenses in the quarter were approximately $11 million a $5.6 million decrease from a year ago.
G&amp;A expenses year-to-date were $35.5 million a $4.9 million decrease from the first nine months of last year.
This decrease in G&amp;A comes from lower acquisition transaction cost $589 000 year-to-date versus $1.7 million of transaction cost for acquisitions in 2013 as well as lower stock compensation cost.
We had a one-time unusual $3.7 million expense during the third quarter of 2013 due to accelerated vesting of our long-term stock compensation.
Our projection for G&amp;A for 2014 remains approximately $50 million.
Our G&amp;A year-to-date as a percentage of total rental and other revenues remains well at only 5.3% of revenues.
And our current projection for G&amp;A expenses in 2015 is approximately $53.5 million.
Property expenses were $12.8 million in the quarter.
However this amount includes $8.3 million of property expenses reimbursed by tenants.
So the property expenses that we are responsible for were approximately $4.5 million for the quarter.
Our projection for 2014 of property expenses that we will be responsible for has increased slightly to approximately $17 million from a prior projection of $16.5 million.
And our current projection for property expenses that we will be responsible for in 2015 is approximately $19 million.
Provisions for impairment includes $495 000 of impairments we recorded on one sold property and three properties held for sale at September 30.
Gain on sales were approximately $11 million in the quarter.
And just a reminder we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or in our AFFO.
Excess of redemption value over carrying value preferred shares redeemed refers to the $6 million non-cash redemption charge for the unamortized original issuance costs which were paid when issuing and preferred E shares back in 2006.
Funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.64 for the quarter this would have been $0.67 per share but it was reduced by $0.03 due to the redemption charge on the Class E preferred shares.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution and dividends was also $0.64 per share for the quarter.
We again increased our cash monthly dividend this quarter.
Our monthly dividend now equates to current annualized amount of approximately $2.197 per share.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we continue to maintain our conservative and safe capital structure.
As you know in mid-September we raised $250 million of 12 year bonds priced at a yield of 4.178%.
Obviously we are pleased with our continued access to low cost long-term capital in the bond market.
The primary purpose of this offering was to redeem our $220 million of preferred E stock which had a coupon of 6.75%.
So this transaction resulted in annual cash expense savings of almost $5.7 million.
Our bonds which are all unsecured and fixed rate and continue to be rated BAA1 BBB plus have a weighted average maturity of 7.5 years.
Our $1.5 billion acquisition credit facility had only a $45 million balance at September 30th.
However $220 million preferred E redemption closed earlier this month.
So the facility has an effective balance of $265 million.
We did assume approximately $7 million of additional in place mortgages during the third quarter but we also repaid $56 million of mortgage principal during the quarter.
So our outstanding net mortgage debt at quarter-end decreased to approximately $844 million.
Not including our credit facility the only variable rate debt exposure to rise in interest rate that we have is on just $39 million of mortgage debt.
And our overall debt maturity schedule remains in very good shape with only $8 million of mortgage principal payments due in the fourth quarter of 2014 and $120 million in 2015.
Our next bond maturity is only $150 million due in November of 2015 and our maturity schedule is well latter thereafter.
Currently our debt to total market capitalization is approximately 32% and our preferred stock outstanding is less than 3% of our capital structure.
And our debt-to-EBITDA at quarter-end was only 5.9 times.
Now let me turn the call back over to John who will give you more background on these results.
Thanks Paul.
I’ll begin with an overall of the portfolio which is performing well and continues to generate dependable cash flow for our shareholders.
Occupancy remains consistent with the previous quarter at 98.3% based on the number of properties with 74 properties available for lease out of 4 284 properties.
Occupancy has held steady for three consecutive quarters now and is up 20 basis points from one year ago.
Occupancy based on square footage and economic occupancy are both 99.1%.
Based on what we're seeing today in our schedule rollover we expect our occupancy to remain fairly stable for the remainder of the year.
The third quarter was our most active quarter this year for lease rollover activity in the portfolio with leases expiring on 81 properties.
Of these assets we released 70 to existing tenants 7 to new tenants and sold 4 properties recapturing a 100% of expiring rents on the properties we released.
Our property portfolio management activities speak to the unique and extensive experience we have seen in our business full cycle where leases signed more than 20 years ago are rolling.
Over our 45 year operating history we have successfully executed more than 1 700 lease rollovers.
We have a team of 36 professionals many of whom have been with the company for over a decade working in our property portfolio management department.
We believe our expertise in this area is a significant asset to our company.
Our portfolio continues to be diversified by tenant industry geography and to a certain extent property type.
At the end of the third quarter our properties were leased to 231 commercial tenants and 47 different industries located in 49 states in Puerto Rico.
78% of rental revenue is from our traditional retail properties while 22% is from non-retail the largest component being industrial and distribution.
This diversification continues to enhance the predictability of our cash flow.
At the end of the third quarter our top 10 and top 20 tenants represented 37.5% and 53.5% of rental revenue respectively.
The tenants in our top 20 continue to capture nearly every tenant representing more than 1% of our rental revenue.
There have been no material changes to the composition of tenants in our top 20 since last quarter.
None of the top 20 tenants have investment grade credit ratings.
The rental revenue from these non-investment grade rated tenants represents over half of the rent from our top 20 tenants.
Within our portfolio no single-tenant accounts for more than 5.4% of rental revenue so the diversification by tenant remains quite favorable.
Walgreens continues to be our largest tenant at 5.4% of rental revenue which is up slightly from last quarter.
FedEx remains our second largest tenant at 5.1% of rental revenue which is also up slightly from last quarter.
Our 20th largest tenant represents only 1.2% of rental revenue and our 30th largest tenant accounts for just over 0.5% of rental revenue.
We also added four new tenants to our portfolio this quarter further diversifying our tenant base.
As far as industries convenience stores remain our largest industry at 10% of rental revenue and have continued to decline as a percentage of rental revenue for 14 quarters in a row.
Our second largest industry is Dollar stores at 9.6% down from 9.8% last quarter.
As many of you know there has been a lot in the news regarding the top three players in the Dollar store industry.
With Dollar Tree and Dollar General competing by Family Dollar.
The process remains fluid and one we continue to monitor.
Family Dollar shareholders will determine the ultimate outcome here.
We would expect the FTC's ruling on any trust concerns associated with the merger to impact the outcome.
We remain quite comfortable with our Dollar Store portfolio.
We continue to like the deep discount orientation of the Dollar store industry as lower and middle income consumers remain focused on value shopping.
Family Dollar and Dollar General remain the dominant players in this industry.
Our Family Dollar and Dollar General portfolios have an average lease term of 13 years with the unit level cash flow converge well above the overall average cash flow coverage in our retail portfolio of 2.6 times.
A Family Dollar merger with either side should not have a material impact on our operations.
Moving onto property type retail continues to represent our primary source of rental revenue currently at 78% with industrial and distribution at 10%; office at 7%; and the remainder evenly divided between light manufacturing and agriculture.
We continue to focus on retail properties leased to tenants with a service; non-discretionary; and/or low price point component to their business.
Today more than 90% of our retail revenue come from businesses with these characteristics which better positions them to successfully operate in all economic environments and to compete with e-commerce.
Our weighted average remaining lease term continues to be approximately 10.5 years.
Our same-store rents increased 1.4% during the quarter and 1.5% year-to-date consistent with our expectations for the foreseeable future.
The industry is contributing most of our quarterly same-store rent growth for convenient stores health and fitness and quick service restaurants.
We continue to have excellent credit quality in the portfolio with 46% of our rental revenue generated from investment grade tenants.
Again we define an investment grade rated company as having an investment grade rating by one or more of the three major rating agencies.
This revenue percentage is up from 40% one year ago.
We continue to generate solid rental growth from these investment grade tenants.
Nearly 70% of our investment grade leases as a percentage of rental revenues have rental rate increases in them which average approximately 1.4% annually consistent with our historical portfolio rental growth rate.
Overall investment grade rental growth is about 1%.
In addition to tenant credit the store level performance of our retail tenants remains positive.
On average our rent coverage ratio on our retail properties is 2.6 times on four wall basis.
Moving on to acquisitions.
We continue to see a very high volume of sourced acquisition opportunities.
During the quarter we sourced over 7 billion in acquisition opportunities and year-to-date nearly 21 billion making this already our second most active year ever for sourced transactions.
There continues to be a lot of capital pursuing these transactions and we're seeing some very aggressive pricing in transaction structures in the market today.
We continue to remain selective and disciplined in our investment strategy investing at attractive risk adjusted returns and spreads for our shareholders.
During the quarter we completed $182 million in property level acquisitions at a cash cap rate of 7.4% bringing us to $1.24 billion in acquisitions for the year at an initial cash cap rate of 7.1%.
We're pleased with the yields returns and spreads we're achieving.
Given our low cost of capital we continue to be able to invest at accretive levels.
Our investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital continue to be well above our historical averages.
So we are investing at spreads that are nearly a 100 basis points wider than our long-term average.
We anticipate closing approximately $1.4 billion in acquisitions this year making 2014 our second most acquisitive year ever in our company’s history.
Given the current environment we’re establishing initial acquisitions guidance for 2015 of $500 million to $800 million.
As you know it’s notoriously difficult to predict future acquisitions activity.
Volumes can be lumpy and can change significantly from quarter-to-quarter.
However we continue to see a robust pipeline of acquisition opportunities.
Given the backdrop of this acquisitions environment we are increasing our asset sales this year from $75 million to approximately $100 million to take advantage of a more aggressive market for buying; this is twice our initial expectation of $50 million at the beginning of the year.
During the quarter we sold 11 properties for $33.5 million which brings us to 28 properties sold to-date for $53 million.
These are our non-strategic assets being sold at attractive pricing.
Let me hand it over to Sumit to discuss in more detail our acquisitions and dispositions.
Sumit? Thank you John.
During the third quarter of 2014 we invested $182 million in 49 properties located in 26 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 7.4% and with a weighted average lease term of 11.2 years.
As a reminder our initial cap rates or cash not GAAP which tend to be higher due to straight lining of rent.
We define cash cap rates contractual cash net operating income for the first 12 months of each lease following the acquisition date divided by the total cost of the property including all expenses borne by Realty Income.
On a revenue basis 53% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants.
96% of the revenues are generated from retail and 4% are from industrial and distribution.
These assets are leased to 21 different tenants in 15 industries.
Some of the most significant industries represented are home improvement and drugstores.
Year-to-date 2014 we invested $1.24 billion in $439 properties located in 42 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 7.1% and with the weighted average lease term of 12.6 years.
Of the total amount approximately $329 million was invested in non-investment grade retail properties.
On a revenue basis 70% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants.
86% of the revenues are generated from retail 7% are from industrial distribution and manufacturing and 7% are from office.
These assets are leased to 51 different tenants in 27 industries.
Some of the more significant industries represented are Dollar stores home improvements and drugstores.
Transaction flow continues to remain healthy.
We sourced more than $7 billion in the third quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date we have sourced approximately $21 billion in potential transaction opportunities which as we mentioned last quarter would put us on pace to make 2014 the year with the second largest volume sourced in our company's history.
Of these opportunities 75% of the volumes sourced were portfolios and 25% or $5 billion were one-off assets.
Investment grade opportunities represented 48% for the quarter.
Of the $182 million in acquisitions closed in the third quarter approximately 48% were one-off transactions.
69% of the transactions closed in the third quarter were relationship driven.
We remained selective and disciplined in our investment approach closing on less than 6% of the deals sourced and continue to capitalize on our extensive industry relationships developed over our 45 year operating history.
As to pricing cap rates remained tight in the third quarter with investment grade properties trading from mid 5% to high 6% cap rate range and non-investment grade properties trading from low-to-mid 6% to low 8% cap rate range.
As John highlighted we had a very active quarter for dispositions and have increased our dispositions guidance to approximately $100 million to take advantage of the propitious cap rate environment.
During the quarter we sold 11 properties for $33.5 million at an unlevered IRR of just over 12%.
This brings us to 28 properties sold year-to-date for $53.3 million at an unlevered IRR of approximately 11% and a net cap rate of 8.1% on the leased properties sold.
Our investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital were very healthy averaging 224 basis points in the third quarter and a 190 basis points year-to-date which was significantly above our historical average spreads.
We define investment spread as initial cash yield less our nominal first year weighted average cost of capital.
We are continuing to make investments above our historic spreads whilst improving our real estate portfolio tenant quality credit quality and overall diversification.
In conclusion the third quarter investments remained healthy at $182 million.
Year-to-date we have invested $1.24 billion while sourcing approximately $21 billion in transactions.
Our spreads remained comfortably above historical level as a tight cap rate environment in the third quarter was more than offset by improving cost of capital.
We continue to be very selective in pursuing opportunities that are in line with our long-term strategic objectives and within our acquisition parameters.
We also took advantage of an aggressive pricing environment to accelerate disposition of assets that are no longer a strategic fit.
We remained confident of reaching our updated investment and disposition goals of approximately $1.4 billion and approximately $100 million respectively for 2014.
With that I would like to hand it back to John.
Thanks Sumit.
Regarding our capital raising activities as Paul mentioned we've been quite active in the capital markets year-to-date.
We have raised over $1.2 billion in permanent and long-term capital to finance our business.
The majority being equity with the remainder being 10 and 12 year unsecured bonds.
So our balance sheet continues to be in excellent shape with two-thirds equity and one-third debt and that debt being predominantly long-term fixed rate.
We currently have more than $1.2 billion available on the line to support future acquisitions activity so we continue to have excellent liquidity.
Regarding earnings and guidance we continue to generate healthy per share earnings growth while maintaining a conservative capital structure.
Our third quarter FFO and AFFO per share of $0.64 represented increases of 8.5% and 6.7% respectively from the period one year ago.
As mentioned earlier we are reiterating our 2014 AFFO guidance per share of $2.55 to $2.57 representing earnings growth of about 6% to 7%.
We are anticipating another solid year for earnings growth next year and we are initiating 2015 guidance with AFFO per share from $2.66 to $2.71 implying year-over-year growth of approximately 4% to 6% over the midpoint of our 2014 range; and FFO per share of $2.67 to $2.72 which at the midpoint of the range represents an increase of approximately 4% over the midpoint of our 2014 range.
Our focus continues to be the payment of reliable monthly dividends that grow over time.
During the third quarter we declared the 77th dividend increase since the company’s listing in 1994.
Over this 20-year time period as a publicly traded company we’ve grown the dividend by a compounded average annual growth rate of 4.6%.
We remain committed to the durability and consistent growth of the dividend.
Our payout ratio year-to-date has been 85.5% of our AFFO which is a level we continue to be comfortable with.
As I am sure many of you saw in our separate press release yesterday we’re pleased to announce Steve Sterrett CFO of Simon Property Group as the 8th Member of our Board of Directors and 7th independent Board Member.
We welcome Steve to Realty Income and look forward to working with him as a Member of our Board.
Steve has spent 26 years at Simon Property Group the largest real-estate company in the world and has spent the last 14 years as the CFO building a reputation of excellence in the industry.
His depth of experience and relevance in our industry will enable him to be a valuable contributor to our Board.
Finally to wrap it up we continue to be pleased with our performance for the year.
We’re seeing healthy volumes of acquisition opportunities and we’re on track to have our second most active year for acquisitions in our company’s history.
We will remain selective and disciplined with regards to our investment strategy and we'll continue to acquire high quality properties quite accretively with our cost of capital advantage and at attractive risk adjusted returns for our shareholders.
At this time I would now like to open it up for questions.
Operator? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Hi good afternoon guys.
I was just hoping you could give us a little color on the 2015 acquisition guidance sort of how you came to that number and then background on any spreads or cap rates we should thinking about with regards to that number? And just optically I know you've kind of stated and stressed that you want to be selective but just how we should be thinking about that versus the number you put out there for 2014 for the year? Okay Juan.
Let me just spend a moment on acquisitions.
We continue to see inactive pipeline of sourced acquisition opportunity so there is good transaction flow.
And as we said our investment spreads are well above our historical average.
But there is also a lot of capital pursuing these opportunities.
So it has been competitive and we remain disciplined and selective with our investment strategy.
We're seeing some very aggressive pricing out there among some of our peers and structures looking at replacement cost; we're seeing assets trade sometimes at 50% above the replacement costs.
We’re seeing properties that have rents that are well above market rents trading at aggressive pricing.
Then we’re seeing some pretty aggressive structures as well.
So we’re seeing for instance and some of the casual dining transactions that have crossed our gas we’re seeing them get dine at very high coverage ratios ratios we’re not comfortable with.
So we’ve been in this business a long time and I think we have a pretty good idea of what’s going to work and what’s not going to work long-term.
Clearly given our cost of capital we could do these transactions and initially that would be quite accretive.
But when you look at them over the long-term if they’re not structured and priced properly you’re going to have some low IRRs and pay the price on the residual and they could actually the value destructive to our shareholders long-term.
Our range for acquisitions for 2015 reflects the environment we’re in today.
As you know that environment can change significantly from quarter-to-quarter even month-to-month.
I mean if an aggressive buyers out there that all of a sudden slows down or exits the market that could have a material impact on our volume and potentially pricing.
So at this point predicting acquisitions guidance year in advance is always difficult.
And we’ve always wanted to be accurate but not over promise.
Historically we’ve exceeded our initial guidance.
If you look at last year we had $1 billion acquisitions guidance number in October of 2013 for 2014 and we're going to exceed that by about 40%.
But as usual we'll just have to see how that year shapes up next year but one thing we're not going to do is abandon our investment discipline simply to generate volume.
Let me speak to your second point in that spreads and cap rates.
Sumit addressed that on the call but investment grade cap rates we see them get a little tighter.
Investment grade is running from the mid 5s to the high 6s and non-investment grade the low 6s all the way up to 8%.
As far as spreads go for the year we've invested spreads of 190 basis points above our weighted average cost of capital.
In the third quarter that was 220 basis points.
And given our cost of capital today we're looking at 240 basis points which are near our all time record spreads.
So they remained quite attractive but again we've got to look at this business beyond just what it's going to do over the next quarter or next year and we're looking at 10 or 11 year average 13 year or 14 year average lease terms.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Definitely very thorough.
Thanks John.
And just a quick follow-up if you don't mind.
Given how aggressive pricing is what’s the viewer on dispositions for 2015 is it anything big to the numbers? We've assumed for 2015 $50 million for now and we're going to watch that pretty closely.
We started out this year assuming $50 million and we're going to end up selling $100 million approximately.
So the environment continues to be heated.
We're going to go ahead and move some assets some additional assets off our watch list and take advantage of the strong bid in the market.
And I think pricing will improve here in the next few months is my prediction in terms of disposition.
So in the model we have $50 million but we’re going to watch that pretty closely and if the environment continues to look like it does today we could see increasing that up to $100 million.
Great.
Thank you very much for the time.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Hi thanks guys.
Sumit you gave cap rate ranges for investment grade and non-investment grade tentative properties.
Were those for the properties you acquired in Q3? Just want to get the range of cap rates you acquired because the blended 7.4 yield I thought was pretty high even though it worth payable to land over 50% investment grade.
Yes.
So Todd those were the ranges of assets that we saw transact in the market.
We didn’t -- I don’t believe we bought anything in the low or mid 5% cap rate range.
The main reason for the yield that we were able to achieve in the third quarter of a 7.4 was being driven by 18% of the volume was coming from our build-to-suit development funding as well as some of our forward commitments which typically has been a much smaller portion of the total acquisition volume it’s been right around 3% but in the third quarter that represented closer to 18%.
And clearly the mix of investment grade and non-investment grade also played a part in why we were able to achieve the higher yield.
That’s helpful.
And then just kind of just switching gears can you share how some of the re-leasing discussions went with tenants? It looks like while you renewed 77 leases just looking back at the Q2 results about 50 only 50 leases were coming due in the second half of the year.
So I just want to see the tenants comfort level in renewing leases ahead of time it looks like a fair amount of those were maturities not coming due just yet? That's exactly right.
I mean we're always looking for Todd managing our rollover and if we can enter into discussions that are advantageous for us and our tenants to re-lease early we will do that.
So that's why you see that 77 number versus what was scheduled to roll in the quarter.
So we're pleased with that and we'll continue to do that.
We're just trying to stay in front of these maturities and our leases and stay in front of them a couple of quarters or longer if we can even.
Is there a comfort level with tenants anything that you can any trends are developing that tenants are able to renew or their willingness to renew it little early anything there? Yes.
Well I think in general our tenants are in better shape than they were certainly five years ago; their operations and balance sheets are much stronger; they are more likely to renew.
So we're leasing of the lease rollovers we're executing 90% are going to the same tenant; 10% to a new tenant.
If you look at the history of the company that's been more 70% to the same tenant and 20% to new tenant and then 10% sold.
So those statistics show you that the tenants are more comfortable renewing their leases on the properties and staying in those properties.
And it’s a function of a better economic environment but we also like to think it’s also a function of better underwriting better tenant selection site selection on our part having learned from 45 years history in this business.
Thanks John.
And just was there cost or what was the cost associated with retaining and attracting new tenants; have you guys put out a TI number? Yes.
We are -- that will be in our supplemental.
So we spent 125 000 in tenant improvements in the third quarter to re-lease 16.3 million in rental revenue.
So that number is de minimis it usually is dominants; it runs from less than 1% of revenues up to maybe 2%.
So it’s never a material number but we’re actually including that in our supplement going forward.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Todd.
Our next question comes from Vikram Malhotra with Morgan Stanley.
Thank you.
Sumit could you just give us sorry I apologize if I missed this.
But for the acquisitions that you’ve taking for next year what are the cap rates you’re assuming or the range of cap rates? We’re assuming 7% for next year.
Okay.
Year-to-date we’re at 7.1%.
The 7.4% if we were very pleased with but that’s little higher than what we’re expecting given the current market conditions.
And then just given the numbers you quoted on market cap rates between investment grade and non-investment grade would you expect next year to be a little different in terms of just composition between the two for deals that you do? No.
I think listen a lot of it is going to be a function of what's going to be available out there.
And I think we've stated this in previous calls as well.
We don't target a particular composition with regards to investment grade versus non-investment grade when we're looking at acquisitions.
This particular quarter it just turned out where investment grade represented only 53% whereas year-to-date it's closer to 70%.
So we're going to look at opportunities that present themselves.
There is a lot of discussion around certain retail asset classes that tend to be more non-investment grade in nature.
So it's very difficult to predict as to what the composition of that 500 million to 800 million that John has mentioned is going to turn out to be at the end.
Okay.
And then just maybe on the competition for deals as you mentioned it's obviously increased but maybe looking out into '15 maybe just give us your high level thoughts on did you see that competition changing in any way? I know new regulations on the non-traded side don't kick in for a while but could that be a factor as you get towards the year end or could there just be other factors that may make the environment just more competitive or less competitive from your standpoint? Well we continue to compete with the other public companies and certainly the non-listed REITs.
As you've said the capital raising has slowed down a little bit there but there is still a lot of equity in those entities.
We compete with mortgage REITs and institutional investment managers who are running money for sovereign wealth funds pension funds endowments looking for yield.
So we bump in to some of them as well.
I think that the last few quarters have been some of the most competitive we've seen.
And there is certainly some activities out there in the sector that would lead me to believe that the competition could become a little less than tense next year.
Again it’s impossible to accurately forecast but our sense is some of the more aggressive buyers maybe stepping back a bit from the market.
So that would be the case.
We certainly feel better about the higher-end of our acquisitions range.
Okay.
And then some -- okay okay.
Just last clarification is on the timing of these acquisitions is there anything different we should assume for next year versus just normal seasonality that we see during the year? They’re normal they’re lumpy and they’re really driven by portfolios.
And again like last year 2013 we did $1.52 billion in property level acquisitions the last quarter was a $140 million.
This year the first quarter was $650 million and this quarter was a $182 million.
You’re going to see that lumpiness because it’s associated with the amount of acquisitions that get done through portfolios.
So I think that will continue.
So we’ll have some heavy quarters and some light quarters like we always have.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just wondering if you could comment on the weighted average remaining lease term for the portfolio overall.
And I guess let’s say 5 or more years ago I kind of assume that was going to fall in the range of 12 years or longer generally.
And I think now it’s around 10.4 years.
And just if you can comment around that I guess the change in properties that you guys own now may influence that but also whether or not you manage to that number and what you'd expect it to be in five or ten years or how that will likely trend? Yes.
Well I mean when you've got $15 billion in assets and each year passes the lease-term actually declines by year and it's offset partially by acquisitions.
And so if you're acquiring a $1.5 billion at 13 years you're not going to fully offset the decrease in lease-term on the existing portfolio.
On rollovers you are typically -- if the rollovers go to the same tenant they are five year lease-terms if it's a new tenant it's closer to ten years.
So it's a natural evolution for a season that lease company like ourselves to see that lease-term overtime decline.
We still focus on average lease-terms of 11 12 13 14 years that’s what we're seeing that's what we're doing.
But you’ve got to remember on the rest of the portfolio they're getting a bit shorter.
And I think one of our strength is to effectively execute lease rollovers.
We've executed over 1 700 lease rollovers in our company's history recapturing nearly a 100% of the expiring rent.
And we've got a team of almost 40 professionals dedicated to that effort that they have been with the company; many of them 10 to 20 years.
And that’s where I’ve said this before where the rubber meets the road in the business that’s where you really need to be able to execute and reserve value.
And there are not a lot of net lease companies out there that have that expertise and that extensive experience.
So we’re very comfortable with our ability to extend the shorter lease terms and the longer lease terms that eventually need to be addressed as those leases expire.
I mean some of the leases we handled this quarter we looked at and they were put in place 25 years ago.
So again we’d have a very long-term perspective.
Does that help Todd? Yes it does.
That’s great.
Thanks for all that color.
And then just a follow-up question on the acquisition guidance for next year.
I’m curious if you are also expecting that the acquisition volume that source is going to be lower or whether you expect that to be relatively constant; you guys are just going to a little bit choosier about what you actually try to close? It’s continuing to be active in this quarter.
We would expect transaction flow in terms of sourced acquisition opportunities to be strong again next year; all indicators were pointing to that it will be.
2013 was a record at 39 billion.
This year we’re already a 21 billion which is our second best year ever just nine months into the year.
So I think that we’ll continue to see that momentum but again we’ll continue to be selective and disciplined in what we buy.
There are a number of discussions going on with respect to sale leasebacks with corporate board; corporate management teams; activist investors.
We don't know how many of these are going to end up playing out but it's just one or two or three hit you could see some very big sourced volumes that could lead to higher acquisition.
So that activity in terms of activist investors and corporate boards and management teams scrutinizing their real estate holdings and making sure they’re properly and efficiently managing their real estate is accelerating.
So there are more discussions.
Unfortunately we're involved in those discussions and that really could impact source opportunities next year there to monetize some of that real estate.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions.
Okay Todd.
Thank you.
And this concludes the question and answer portion of Realty Income's conference call.
I will now turn the call over to John Case for concluding remarks.
Just want to thank you and thank everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter and we'll see a lot of you next week in Atlanta NAREIT.
So we look forward to catching up with you then.
Take care everyone.
And this conference will be available for replay beginning today at 6:30 pm and will end November 14th at 1:59 am.
You can access the replay by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using the access code 3015859.
Again you can access that replay by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using the access code of 3015859.
Thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's call.
Good day and welcome to the Realty Income Fourth Quarter 2014 Operating Results Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Janeen Bedard.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Operating Results Conference Call.
Discussing our results will be John Case Chief Executive Officer; Paul Meurer Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Sumit Roy Chief Operating Officer and Chief Investment Officer.
During this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater detail the factors that may cause such differences in the company's Form 10-K.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Case.
Thanks Janeen welcome to our call today.
We're pleased with our fourth quarter results with AFFO per share increasing by 4.8% to $0.65 and 2014 AFFO per share increasing by 6.6% to $2.57.
As announced in yesterday’s press release we are reiterating our 2015 AFFO per share guidance of $2.66 to $2.71 as we continue to anticipate another solid year of earnings growth.
Paul will provide you with an overview of our financial results.
Paul? Thanks John.
As usual I will briefly comment on our financial statements and provide some highlights of our financial results for the quarter and the year starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 14.5% for the quarter and 19.6% for the year.
This increase reflects our growth primarily from new acquisitions over the past year as well as same-store rent growth.
Our annualized rental revenue at December 31 was approximately $920 million.
On the expense side depreciation and amortization expense increased to $96.5 million in the quarter as depreciation expenses obviously increased with our portfolio growth.
Interest expense increased in the quarter to $59.1 million.
This increase was primarily due to our two recent bond offerings the $350 million tenure notes we issued in June and a $250 million 12 year notes issued in September.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remain strong with interest coverage of 3.8 times and fixed charge coverage of 3.4 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses were approximately $15.6 million for the quarter and $51.1 million for the year both were decreases from last year due to lower acquisition transaction costs as well as lower stock compensation cost.
Overall our total G&amp;A in 2014 as a percentage of total rental and other revenues represented only 5.7% of revenues.
Our projection for G&amp;A expenses in 2015 is approximately $55 million or about 5.5% of revenue.
Property expenses which were not reimbursed by tenants totaled $4.2 million for the quarter and $16.8 million for the year.
Our current projection for property expenses that we will be responsible for in 2015 is approximately $20 million.
Income taxes consist of income tax paid to various states and cities by the company and they were approximately $1.1 million for the quarter and $3.5 million for the year.
Provisions for impairment of approximately $2 million during the quarter includes impairments we reported on one sold property and two properties held for sale at December 31.
Note that approximately $510 000 of this impairment is recognized in discontinued operations on the income statement.
An accounting treatment that is necessary because the property was held for sale at the end of last year when the discount accounting rules changed.
Gain on sales were approximately $25 million in the quarter and $42 million for the year and just a reminder as always we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or AFFO.
Funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.64 for the quarter a 4.9% increase versus a year ago and $2.58 for the year a 7.1% increase over 2013.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution and dividends was $0.65 per share for the quarter a 4.8% increase versus the year ago and came in at $2.57 for the year a 6.6% increase over 2013.
Dividends paid increased 2.1% in 2014 and as previously announced last month we declared a 3% increase to our cash monthly dividend which was paid to shareholders this month.
Our monthly dividend now equates to a current annualized amount of approximately $2.268 per share.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we’ve continued to maintain our conservative and safe capital structure.
As previously disclosed we regained our $220 million of preferred e-stock which had a coupon of $6.75% back in October.
Recall it in mid-September we issued $250 million of 12-year bond prized at a yield of 4.178% to pre-fund this preferred redemption.
This transaction overall resulted in annual cash expense savings of almost $5.7 million.
Obviously we are pleased with our continued access to low cost long term capital in the bond market.
Our bonds which are all unsecured in fixed rate and continue to be rated Baa1 BBB+ have a weighted average maturing of 7.2 years.
Our $1.5 billion acquisition credit facility had a $223 million balance at December 31 and currently we have $382 million of borrowings on the line.
We did not assume any mortgages during the quarter.
We did pay off some of the maturity to our outstanding net mortgage that at year end decreased to approximately $836 million.
Not including our credit facilities the only variable rate debt exposure to rising interest rates that we have is only just $39 million of this mortgage debt.
And our overall debt maturity schedule remains in very good shaper with only 120 million to mortgages and 150 million of bonds coming due in 2015 and our maturity schedule as well laddered thereafter.
Currently our debt to total market capitalization is approximately 30% and our preferred stock outstanding is less than 2.5% of our capital structure.
And our debt to EBITDA at year end was only 5.8 times.
Now let me turn the call back over to John who will give you more background.
Thanks Paul.
I’ll begin with an overview of the portfolio which is performing well and continues to generate a tenable cash flow for our shareholders.
Occupancy increased 10 basis points from last quarter and 20 basis points year-over-year to 98.4% based on the number of properties with 70 properties available for lease out of over 4 300 properties in our portfolio.
This is the highest our occupancy has been since 2007.
Occupancy based on square footage was 99.2% a 10 basis points improvement from last quarter and 20 basis points year-over-year.
Economic occupancy was also 99.2% a 10 basis points improvement from both last quarter and year-over-year.
2014 has been one of our most active years every for lease rollover activity with leases expiring on 220 properties.
Of these properties we released 173 to existing tenants and 30 to new tenants recapturing 99.3% of expiring rents on the properties that were released.
In addition we sold 17 vacant properties during the year.
In the fourth quarter we experienced 54 lease rollovers of these we released 40 to existing tenants and 10 to new tenants recapturing approximately 97% of expiring rents on the properties that were released.
Eight vacant properties were sold during the fourth quarter.
Our same store rent increased 1.7% during the quarter and 1.5% in 2014.
The industry is contributing most to our quarterly same store rent growth or convenient stores health and fitness and quick service restaurants.
We expect same store rent growth to remain at about 1.5% for the foreseeable future.
Our portfolio continues to be diversified by tenant industry geography and to a certain extent property type.
At the end of the fourth quarter our properties released 234 commercial tenants in 47 different industries located in 49 states in Puerto Rico.
79% of our rental revenue is from our traditional retail properties while 21% is from non-retail properties the largest component being industrial and distribution.
This diversification continues to enhance the predictability of our cash flow.
We continue to focus on retail properties leased to tenants with the service non-discretionary and/or a low price point component to their business.
Today more than 90% of our retail revenues come from businesses with these characteristics which better position them to successfully operate in all economic environments and to compete with e-commerce.
At the end of the fourth quarter our top 10 and top 20 tenants represented 37% and 53% of rental revenue respectively.
The tenants in our top 20 continue to capture nearly every tenant representing more than 1% of our rental revenue.
There were no changes to the composition of our tenants in our top 25 since last quarter.
Nine of the top 20 tenants have investment grade credit rating.
The rental revenue from these non-investment grade rated tenants represents over half of the rent from our top 20 tenants.
Within our portfolio no single tenant accounts for more than 5.4% of our rental revenue.
The diversification by tenant remains favorable.
Walgreens continues to be our largest tenant at 5.4% of rental revenue unchanged from last quarter.
FedEx remains our second largest tenant at 5.1% of rental revenue which is also unchanged from last quarter.
Convenience stores remain our largest industry at 9.8% of rental revenue down 20 basis points from last quarter.
Our second largest industry is Dollar stores at 9.5% down 10 basis points from last quarter.
As many of you know the competition between Dollar Tree and Dollar General to purchase Family Dollar recently ended with Family Dollar shareholders approving the merger with Dollar Tree.
Family Dollar is our fifth largest tenant at 4.5% of rental revenues.
We view this outcome as an incremental positive given the minimal portfolio overlap Family Dollar has with Dollar Tree and there will be no impact on our tenant diversification metrics.
The FTC [ph] is currently reviewing the merger but we remain confident that the performance and long lease duration of our Family Dollar locations should ensure that the divestitures have no impact on our rental revenue.
We continue to have excellent credit quality in the portfolio with 46% of our rental revenue generated from investment grade rated tenants.
Again we define an investment grade rated company that’s having an investment grade rating by one or more of the three major rating agencies.
This revenue percentage is up from 40% a year ago.
We continue to generate solid rental growth from these investment grade tenants.
Nearly 70% of our investment grade leases as a percentage of rental revenues have rental rate increases in them which average approximately 1.4% annually which is consistent with our historical portfolio of rental growth rate.
Overall investment grade tenant rental growth is about 1%.
In addition to tenant credit the store level performance of our retail tenants remains positive.
Our weighted average rent coverage ratio on our retail properties is 2.6 times on a four wall basis and importantly the median is 2.7 times.
Moving on to acquisitions we continue to see a very high volume of sourced acquisition opportunities.
During the quarter we sourced nearly 4 billion in acquisition opportunities and for the year we sourced 24 billion making this our second most active year ever for sourced transaction.
There continues to be a lot of capital to pursuing these transactions and we continue to remain selective in our investment strategy investing at attractive risk adjusted returns and investment spreads for our shareholders.
During the quarter we completed $158 million in property level acquisitions at a cash cap rate of 7.1% bringing us to $1.4 billion in acquisitions for the year at an initial cash cap rate of 7.1% as well.
Our investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital continues to be well above our historical average.
Today we are investing at spreads over 250 basis points above our weighted average cost of capital.
Given the active environment we’re seeing we are raising our 2015 acquisitions guidance.
We now expect acquisitions volume of $700 million to $1 billion an increase from our initial acquisitions guidance for the year of $500 million to $800 million.
As expected we had a very active quarter for dispositions as we sold 18 properties for $53 million during the fourth quarter.
During the year we sold 46 properties for $107 million more than double our initial expectation of $50 million at the beginning of the year.
And we are again reiterating our initial disposition guidance for 2015 of approximately $50 million.
Now let me hand it over to Sumit to discuss in more detail our acquisitions and dispositions.
Sumit? Thank you John.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 we invested $158 million in 82 properties approximately $1.9 million per property located in 26 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 7.1% and with a weighted average lease term of 14.6 years.
As a reminder our initial cash cap rates or cash not GAAP which tend to be higher due to straight lining of rent.
We define cash cap rates as contractual cash net operating income for the first 12 months of each lease following the acquisition date divided by the total cost of the property including all expenses borne by Realty Income.
On a revenue basis 32% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants and 68% of the revenues are from non-investment grade retail tenants.
87% of the revenues are generated from retail and 13% are from industrial and distribution.
These assets are leased to 23 different tenants in 19 industries.
Some of the most significant industries represented our quick service restaurants grocery stores and drugstores.
For the year 2014 we invested $1.4 billion in 506 properties which equates to approximately $2.8 million of properties located in 42 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 7.1% and with the weighted average lease term of 12.8 years.
Of the total amount approximately $434 million was invested in non-investment grade retail properties.
On a revenue basis 66% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants.
86% of the revenues are generated from retail 8% are from industrial distribution and manufacturing and 6% are from office.
These assets are leased to 62 different tenants in 32 industries.
Some of the most significant industries represented are Dollar stores home improvement and drugstores.
Of the 80 independent transactions closed in 2014 only three transactions were above $50 million.
Transaction flow continues to remain healthy.
We sourced approximately $4 billion in the fourth quarter.
For 2014 we have sourced more than $24 billion in potential transaction opportunities.
2014 was the year with the second largest volume sourced in our company's history.
Of these opportunities 82% of the volume sourced were portfolios and 18% or approximately $5 billion were one-off assets.
Investment grade opportunities represented 49% for the fourth quarter.
Of the $158 million in acquisitions closed in the fourth quarter approximately 33% were one-off transactions.
88% of the transactions closed in the fourth quarter were relationship driven.
We remained selective and disciplined in our investment approach closing on less than 6% of deals sourced and continue to capitalize on our extensive industry relationships developed over our extended operating history.
As to pricing cap rates remained tight in the fourth quarter with investment grade properties trading from low 5% to high 6% cap rate range and non-investment grade properties trading from high 5% to low 8% cap rate range.
As John highlighted our disposition activities remained active.
During the quarter we sold 18 properties for $53.4 million at a net cash cap rate of 5.7% and realized an unlevered IRR of just over 12%.
For 2014 we sold 46 properties for $106.6 million at a net cash cap rate of 6.9% and realized an unlevered IRR of 11.6%.
Our investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital were very healthy averaging 211 basis points in the fourth quarter and 195 basis points in 2014 which were significantly above our historical average spreads.
We define investment spread as initial cash yield less our nominal first year weighted average cost of capital.
In conclusion the fourth quarter investments remained solid at $158 million.
For the year 2014 we invested $1.4 billion while sourcing more than $24 billion in transactions.
Our spreads remained comfortably above our historical level as a tight cap rate environment in the fourth quarter was more than offset by improving cost of capital.
We continue to be very selective in pursuing opportunities that are in line with our long-term strategic objectives and within our acquisition parameters.
We also took advantage of an aggressive pricing environment to accelerate disposition of assets that are no longer a strategic fit.
As John mentioned we are raising our acquisition guidance for 2015 from $500 million to $800 million to $700 million to $1 billion.
With that I would like to hand it back to John.
Thanks Sumit.
We continue to generate healthy per share earnings growth while maintaining a conservative capital structure.
Our fourth quarter FFO and AFFO per share of $0.64 and $0.65 represented increases of 4.9% and 4.8% respectively from a year ago.
Our 2014 FFO and AFFO per share of $2.58 and $2.57 represented increases of 7.1% and 6.6% respectively from a year ago.
We are reiterating our 2015 FFO per share guidance range of $2.67 to $2.72 an increase of 3.5% to 5.4% over 2014 FFO per share.
As mentioned earlier we are also reiterating our AFFO per share guidance of $2.66 to $2.71 an increase of 3.5% to 5.4% over 2014 per share figures.
Our focus continues to be the payment of reliable monthly dividends that grow over time.
We have increased our dividend every year since the company’s listing in 1994 growing the dividend at a compounded average annual rate of 4.7%.
Our track record was recognized last month with our addition to the S&amp;P High Yield Dividend Aristocrats index which measures the performance of companies in the S&amp;P composite 1 500 that have increased their dividend every year for at least 20 consecutive years.
We are one of only six REITs included in this index and we remain committed to consistent growth of the dividend.
Our payout ratio was 84.5% based on the midpoint of our 2015 AFFO guidance which is a level we continue to be comfortable with.
This compares similarly with our 2014 AFFO payout ratio of 85.3%.
Finally to wrap it up we are pleased with our performance for 2014 and we remain quite optimistic for 2015.
As reflected in our increased acquisitions guidance we continue to see healthy volumes of acquisition opportunities but we will remain selective and disciplined with our investment strategy.
We remain well positioned to execute on opportunities with just over $1.1 billion available on the credit facility today.
Additionally our cost of capital advantage continues to support our ability to drive healthy earnings accretion for our shareholders.
At this time I would now like to open it up for questions.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our first question from Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Just a question on the strategy with regards to your industrial exposure how should we be thinking about that either growing or staying the same as a percentage of the pie going forward and what kind of pricing are you seeing for those assets specifically? And is it really just to an investment grade focus on those types of assets? Yeah.
One we continue to focus on exclusively investment grade industrial.
And at the end of the year last year we had about 14% of our acquisitions came from industrial and distribution.
We are still predominantly retail 86%.
We are seeing a bit of cap rate compression in the marketplace and that includes industrial but we are actively seeking Fortune 1000 tenants with investment grade ratings and mission critical or significant locations with investments at/around replacement cost at/around long-term - at/around market rents with growth with the long-term lease.
So that’s typically the profile of what we are seeing and cap rates for that product range from probably the mid 5s right now to the high 6s.
But we will continue to do that but it will represent a minority of our investment activity.
Okay.
Should it grow at a piece of a pie or kind of hold steady from the current levels? Right now it’s holding steady and I think over the near to intermediate term it will hold steady to grow at slight bit.
Okay thanks.
And I just wanted to ask about the increase in your acquisitions guidance is there anything in particular that drove that? Are you feeling or seeing more portfolio deals or is it more one-off relationship transactions? And just sort of tangential follow-up I think you noted the fourth quarter had some quick service in restaurant deals.
From memory I think you guys have been a little bit cautious on casual dining restaurants.
Any change of tact there may be with the lower oil price or is it just specific to those deals in the fourth quarter? With regard to QSRs we’ve been fine now for quite some time.
This company started in 1969 with an investment in a Taco Bell and over the last five years we’ve invested $2.2 billion in non-investment grade retail where we are underwriting to four wall cash flow coverages quality tenants high traffic quality locations and we’ve never gotten away from that though.
We supplemented it with the investment grade strategy but we continue to be very active.
The most active we’ve been in our history over the last five years in buying on investment grade retail.
So we will continue to do that going forward.
As far as acquisitions guidance the first part of your question we’re seeing both more one-off and small portfolio sourcing opportunities as well as some larger portfolios.
So the driver in our acquisitions guidance change has been more activity continued brisk sourcing activity it’s given us more confidence for the year and therefore we raised the midpoint of our acquisitions guidance by $200 million.
I’ll add that we did not adjust our AFFO per share estimates because we believe this incremental activity will be more backend loaded and we’ll have more of an impact in 2016 and 2015.
Thanks John.
Appreciate the color.
Okay.
Thanks Juan.
And we’ll take our next question from Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Hi thanks guys.
Just to get a sense of any trend that stick out for the $4 billion of sourced deals that you looked at in Q4 what was the mix of property types and any characteristics may be you can point to and was any of this located overseas maybe what your appetite is for international right now? Yeah.
So virtually all of it was domestic and 90% of it was retail properties.
So that will give you a good overview of what the servicing activities look like.
Sumit do you have anything to add on that front? No and there was a large portfolio that we saw that had some international assets there as well but it was a very small piece of the pie the $4 billion.
Okay that’s helpful.
And just looking at the sources of capital right now you tapped this stock purchase plan and DRIP I believe might be in there too for $100 million in the quarter is this truly a capital source? Should we be thinking about your ability to may be tap a $100 million a quarter if your stock performs well? Something we implemented about a year and a half ago the waiver discount program and it’s been very successful for us.
We did issue $100 million in the fourth quarter.
We also get a little bit of activity on our DRIP as well.
Going forward it’s something that we will opportunistically access.
It’s an efficient way for us to raise equity the cost of that equity is about 1.3% versus a little over 6% for a regular way offering.
So it’s cheaper for the company and it allows us to match fund some of our acquisition activity.
So we will continue to utilize it where it makes sense in the future but we also won’t abandon regular or equity offerings.
Is there an authorization for that John or is there a limit of how much you can do or does the board weigh in on how much they want to issue? Yeah.
The board has to authorize it and may have – and we have authorization of up to 6 million shares which should last us for a while.
Okay that’s helpful.
And I may have missed this getting on late but what’s holding it back from increasing your guidance given the $200 million increase in your acquisition guidance? Yeah.
I was just talking to Juan about that.
It’s really timely.
The incremental acquisitions we believe will close late in latter part of 2015 so they will have an greater impact on our 2016 AFFO and FFO versus 2015.
So we felt comfortable leaving our guidance where it is.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Todd.
And we’ll take our next question from Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi good afternoon or may be good morning guys.
I’m curious on the line of credit you guys added $150 million was that just to pay off mortgages that came due? Is that what that was? No it will be… Since the end of the quarter Paul? What’s that? Since the end of the quarter yeah.
It would be primarily used for acquisitions during the first quarter.
Okay.
So that was $150 million of additional acquisitions.
And do you have additional acquisitions under contract? Yes we do.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then I was curious guys the development and expansion properties I know it’s not terribly many but it look like you delivered nine in the quarter do I read that right out of the supplemental? And then how do you think about these properties going forward with 2014 it seems that are left to although it get just finished and go away and you don’t have any more of these coming or do you do this periodically? No we’d like to maintain a fair amount of activity in that effort.
The returns are about a 150 basis points higher in terms of initial yields and what we realize on acquisitions.
Currently we have $45 million in development underway of which we funded just over $12 million of that.
About half of that is new development about half of those assets are redevelopment and expansion of existing properties but it’s been a very attractive business for us from a return standpoint.
And we actually like to see that Rich grow to a couple of $100 million which we think is just fine on a balance sheet of our size $16 billion in assets.
Okay.
Got it.
I’ll just say there will be a consistent theme of the business and continue.
Okay great.
Thank you.
So did you deliver $9 million in the quarter is that right? Did I understand that correctly when I look at the supplemental? Yeah.
Sumit? Yeah.
Part of it is we are constantly putting in redevelopment dollars.
So at any given time I think there were 23 assets for the quarter where we invested those $13 million.
But in terms of actual delivery those would only take into account new development and we don’t actually have that stat in front of us.
Okay.
So when you talk new development by the way you’re talking built-to-suits I assume? That’s exactly right.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean it’s important to note that all of the tenants in place and none of this is speculative development.
Okay.
Who are the kinds of tenants typically just out of curiosity? It ranges from some of our health club tenants our distribution sector tenants some general merchandisers and a couple of theaters on the expansion and redevelopment side.
Okay great.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks Rich.
And we’ll take our next question from Vikram Malhotra with Morgan Stanley.
Thank you.
Just a quick question on competition some of your peers have mentioned more or increasing levels of competition from some of the non-traded folks over the last few months.
Just wondering if you are seeing any incremental or may be even lower competition at the granular side and may be in the portfolios or may be at the portfolio side in terms of [indiscernible]? Yeah.
We’ve had one major player obviously step back from the market and they played at the granular level as well as on larger portfolio.
So we are seeing a bit of an impact from that but nothing too significant.
What we’ve seen is more foreign institutional capital come into the market and really with greater debt we have seen return of the 1031 buyer.
So the individual buyers are much more active today for granular assets and more aggressive than they were just a year ago.
So some of what we’ve seen go away around the non-traders aren't quite as active as they were a year ago.
It’s kind of been offset mostly but not entirely by the return of the 1031 buyer and more foreign institutional money coming into the sector on the higher quality properties.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just on your watch list we’ve heard in the retail space in general whether it’s in strips or in malls there have been some tenants that have been under pressure some have closed stores.
I’m just wondering if your watch list has changed in anyway perhaps by category or any tenant over the last quarter or so? Not really.
When you look at our watch list you have a pretty healthy portion of that coming from two industries and that’s casual dining and child day care.
Our watch list continues to represent about 1.5% of our revenues it’s not that large.
And as we watch those properties we’ll make decisions whether to sell those leave them on the watch list or return them to the regular portfolio.
So we haven’t really seen any changes in the composition.
We’ll say that overall the tenant base continues to perform quite well.
There is enough economic growth activity out there.
The consumers are in better shape.
We really by and large have no significant tenant issues right now.
So they are as healthy as they’ve been in quite some time.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Thanks.
I appreciate the color on the updated acquisition guidance.
What this guidance assume for the cash cap rates and investment spreads for the 2015 acquisitions? Yeah.
The initial cash yields are right around 7% and on the investment spreads we are assuming something consistent with what we did last year so averaging right around 195 basis points.
Great.
Thanks.
And then across your portfolio what do you expect the net impact of lower oil prices to be on your tenants? Well we are actually seeing a little of that.
We had decent percentage rents in the last year in January and we are seeing the consumer with more disposable income stemming out.
While we do own convenience stores about 9.8% of our rental revenues are from convenience stores.
They continue to perform well and inside sales have picked up which is where their margin is and where they make most of their money.
On gasoline sales their profit is fairly fixed irrespective of price.
So the same store portfolio continues to perform well.
So we are seeing it I think we’ll continue to see it as long as these prices hold where little extra money in the packets of consumers will help the Dollar Stores and the C-stores some of these other areas.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll go next to Cedric Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
When I look at your cap rates throughout the year in 2014 it remained relatively stable.
They’ve always been around give or take 7% on the acquisitions.
By contrast the investment grade tenancy that were acquired in each quarter declined so from 85% to 30% from the first quarter to last quarter.
Would you say that you are purposefully trying to keep your initial yields around 7% and therefore are now willing to do more non-investment grade tenants or is it just a function of what was on the market during the year? It’s a function of what’s on the market which assets are offering the best risk adjusted returns.
When you look at pricing it’s not only impacted by investment grade or non-investment grade it’s also impacted by how much development that we do in the period what are the average lease terms.
So you look at the fourth quarter you will see lease terms that were longer than they were in the third quarter and that’s reflected in the cap rate.
The longer lease terms are going to be at more aggressive cap rates.
And then on the development side it constituted more activity in the third quarter and that’s reflected – those are higher yields and that’s reflected in our average cap rate for the third quarter.
So it’s really hard to sort of extrapolate trends there because the mix shifts each quarter.
I think it’s better to look at the long-term trend and while we did see some cap rate compression last year and towards the end of the year it slowed down Cedric.
So I think that 7% on average it’s been right around there for the first part of 2015.
Okay.
So you talked about foreign capital entering the fray or being more interested in the higher quality properties.
Have you thought about forming joint ventures with that capital in order to go after some of those lower yielding assets? We haven’t approached any of them at this point.
I think what you are seeing is a lot of capital looking for yield flowing into U.S.
some of it’s coming into the sector and there is a fair amount of that capital deployed.
So I am not sure that looking – these are well heeled sovereign wealth funds and other foreign institutions that don’t really need a capital partner.
But they may need an operating partner or a partner that may identify acquisitions a lot better than they can is there a role for you to play? Yeah.
Most of these are working through U.S.
based institutional investment managers that run net lease money.
So they bought these properties before they sourced and they identify them.
So they are not working without a U.S.
asset advisor and the fact that it’s not leased.
They don’t feel that they need as much of an operating partner as they would if they were in a more actively managed portion of the real estate business.
But it’s something that could make sense at some time.
Okay.
And then just a final question in regards to cost of capital I think your investment spreads versus where you’ve able to invest historically are certainly at a high point or very close to high point.
By contrast I’d say your acquisition guidance for 2015 is fairly conservative.
Given that the spread is so wide or at least so wide as it is today why not be a very aggressive buyer at this point in time and capture the benefit of that spreads in large numbers? Our consistent theme has been to remain disciplined with regard to our investment strategy.
And so we are really pursuing assets that fit our investment strategy.
We are talking about 10 15 20 year leases and we want assets that are going to perform well over the long run not necessarily just offering attractive spreads a day potentially be an issue down the road.
So we see transactions getting done that are aggressively structured from a pricing coverage replacement cost market rent standpoint and we are not going to chase those transactions because we think there is some risk in downside intermediate term and longer term to those types of transaction.
So we are really approaching it with a long-term view here and we think our investment strategy is something that will serve the company well over the long run.
So clearly given our cost of capital advantage relative to the rest of the sector and our availability of capital we could acquire a lot more than we’re acquiring.
But again we don’t want to deviate from the assets that make the most sense for us and we don’t want to get overly aggressive on the structures either.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Cedric.
And we’ll take our next question from Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Hey good afternoon guys.
I just had a question on releasing activity and I’m assuming in the quarter and in the year that that was all retail assets.
I guess it looks like around 2018 you’ll start to see more of the non-retail assets up for renewal.
I’m just wondering do you guys had any expectations at that time in terms of what will happen to releasing spread if you expect it to stay the same or may be go up or go down a little bit.
Well we would expect the leasing spread to be similar to what we have in the existing portfolio maybe a little bit higher.
We get to – in 2018 I think it is our first non-retail property role and I think that as we do our long-term planning long-term budgeting we are assuming a recapture rate of right around 100%.
We would hope that it would be a little north of that Todd but we will see when we get there.
Okay.
And then just a question with the re-leasing to the new tenants is it fair to assume that the majority of those leases that do end up going to new tenants are leases that are up for initial renewal as oppose to subsequent renewal or is that something that spread out across both of those? It is a little bit weighted towards initial renewals yeah.
Okay.
That’s a good question yeah.
Okay great.
That’s all I have.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Todd.
This concludes the question-and-answer portion of Realty Income's conference call.
I will now turn the call over to John Case for concluding remarks.
Thanks Taylor and thanks everyone for joining our call today.
We look forward to speaking to you at some of these conferences coming up over the next few months.
Have a good afternoon.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Realty Income First Quarter 2015 Operating Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Janeen Bedard.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income's First Quarter 2015 Operating Results Conference Call.
Discussing our results will be John Case Chief Executive Officer; Paul Meurer Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Sumit Roy Chief Operating Officer and Chief Investment Officer.
During this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law.
The company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater detail the factors that may cause such differences in the company's Form 10-Q.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Case.
Thanks Janeen and welcome to our call today.
We're pleased with our first quarter results with AFFO per share increasing by 4.7% to record quarterly amount of $0.67.
As announced in yesterday's press release we are reiterating our 2015 AFFO per share guidance of $2.66 to $2.71 as we continue to anticipate another solid year for earnings growth.
We've had an active first four months of the year.
We were added to the S&amp;P 500 Index in April becoming the first net lease REIT to join this index.
In January we were added to the S&amp;P High Yield Dividend Aristocrats Index as a result of increasing our dividend every year for 20 consecutive years.
In addition we raised 379 million in equity capital at an attractive cost to fund our acquisitions activity.
Now I will hand it over to Paul to provide an overview of our financial results.
Paul? Thanks John.
As usual I will comment and provide brief highlights regarding our financial results for the quarter starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 11.4% for the quarter; this increase reflects our growth primarily from new acquisitions over the past year as well as same-store rent growth.
Our annualized rental revenue at March 31st was approximately $936 million.
On the expense side interest expense increased in the quarter to $58.5 million.
This increase was primarily due to our two recent bond offerings the $350 million 10 year notes we issued last June and $250 million 12 year notes issued in September.
We also recognized a non-cash $1.1 million loss on interest rate swaps during the quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remained strong with interest coverage at 3.9 times and fix charge coverage at 3.4 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses were approximately $12.9 million for the quarter essentially unchanged from the prior year.
Included in G&amp;A expenses approximately $94 000 in acquisition cost.
Our G&amp;A as a percentage of total rental and other revenues is only 5.4% and our projection for G&amp;A expenses in 2015 remains the same at approximately $55 million.
Property expenses which were not reimbursed by tenants totaled $4 million for the quarter.
Our current projection for property expenses that we will be responsible for in 2015 remained approximately $20 million.
Provisions for impairment of approximately $2.1 million during the quarter includes impairments we recorded on one sold property one property classified as held for sale and one property where the building was replaced.
Gain on sales were approximately $7.2 million in the quarter and just a reminder as always we do not include property sales gained in our FFO or in our AFFO.
Funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.68 for the quarter a 4.6% increase versus a year ago and adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividends was $0.67 per share for the quarter a 4.7% increase versus a year ago.
Dividends paid increased 2.6% in Q1 and we again increased our cash monthly dividend this quarter.
Our monthly dividend now equates to a current annualized amount of approximately $2.274 per share.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we've continued to maintain a conservative and safe capital structure.
As you know in early April we raised approximately 276 million of new equity capital in conjunction to the S&amp;P 500 Index.
The index inclusion was an excellent opportunity to raise capital at a very lost by offering shares to the index fund needing to buy stock on that specific day.
Our bonds which are all unsecured and fixed rate and continued to be rated BAA1 BBB+ at a weighted average maturity of seven years.
Our $1.5 billion acquisition credit facility had a $370 million balance at March 31st.
After the equity offering and our acquisition activity in April the facility balance today is approximately $400 million.
We did not assume any mortgages during the quarter.
We did pay off some at maturity so our outstanding net mortgage debt at quarter end decreased to approximately $785 million.
Not including our credit facility the only variable rate debt exposure to rising interest rates that we have is on just $15.5 million of mortgage debt.
And our overall debt maturity schedule remains in very good shape with only $68 million of mortgages and $150 million of bonds coming due in 2015 and our maturity schedule as well later thereafter.
Currently our debt to total market capitalization is approximately 29% and our preferred stock outstanding is only 2.5% of our capital structure.
And our debt to EBITDA at quarter end was approximately 5.7 times.
Now let me turn the call back over to John who will give you more background on the quarter.
Thanks Paul.
I’ll begin with an overview of the portfolio which continues to perform well.
Occupancy base on a number of properties was 98% a 40 basis points decline from last quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had 86 properties held for lease out of nearly 4 400 properties in our portfolio.
Economic occupancy was 99.1% a 10 basis points decline from last quarter and a 10 basis points improvement year-over-year.
Occupancy based on square footage was 98.7%.
We had a number of properties come off lease during the first quarter which impacted primarily our physical occupancy.
Our leasing team will continue to address these properties as part of our standard portfolio management process.
We continue to expect our occupancy to remain around 98% through 2015.
Of the 43 properties we re-leased during the quarter 30 were leased to existing tenants and 13 were leased to new tenants recapturing 99.2% of expiring rents.
Additionally five vacant properties were sold during the quarter.
Our same store rent increased 1.4% during the quarter.
The industry is contributing most to our quarterly same-store rent growth for convenience stores health and fitness and quick service restaurants.
We expect same-store rent growth to remain about 1.4% for the foreseeable future.
Our portfolio continues to be diversified by tenant industry geography and to a certain extent property type.
At the end of the first quarter our properties were leased to 236 commercial tenants and 47 different industries located in 49 states and Puerto Rico.
78% of our rental revenue is from our traditional retail properties.
The largest component outside of retail is industrial and distribution properties at 11%.
Our diversification contributes to the predictability of our cash flow.
We continue to focus on retail properties leased to tenants with a service non-discretionary and/or low price point component to their business.
Today more than 90% of our retail revenue comes from businesses with these characteristic which better positions them to successfully operate in a variety of economic environments and to compete with ecommerce.
At the end of the first quarter our top 20 tenants represented 54% of rental revenue.
The tenants in our top 20 continue to capture nearly every tenant representing more than 1% of our rental revenue.
With Circle K's acquisition of the Pantry two of our top 20 tenants consolidated into one allowing the U.S.
government to enter our top 20 at 1.2% of rent.
Now 10 of our top 20 tenants have investment grade credit ratings but rental revenues from these 10 investment grade rated tenants represent 60% of the rent from our top 20 tenants.
Within our portfolio no single tenant accounts for more than 5.5% of rental revenue so diversification by tenant remains favorable.
Walgreens continues to be our largest tenant at 5.5% of rental revenue that actually remains our second largest tenant at 5.2% of rental revenue.
Drugstores and convenience stores are our two largest industries each at 9.6% of rental revenue.
Drugstore is about 10 basis points from last quarter while convenience stores are down 20 basis points from last quarter.
Our third largest industry is Dollar stores at 9.3% down 20 basis points from last quarter.
As many of you know Dollar Tree is expected to close its acquisition of Family Dollar later in the second quarter.
The FTC has substantially completed its review of the acquisition and identified 340 of the combined 14 000 stores for divestiture.
We continued to expect no financial impact on our rental revenue given the minimal portfolio overlap that our Family Dollar locations have with Dollar Tree and the long leased durations of our locations.
We continued to have excellent credit quality in the portfolio with 48% of our rental revenue generated from investment grade rated tenants.
This revenue percentage is up from 46% at the end of 2014 primarily as a result of Couche-Tard's acquisition of the Pantry converting the Pantry our former 15th largest tenant from non-investment grade to investment grade status.
However this percentage should move down a bit to the mid-40s later in the second quarter as a result of Dollar Tree’s pending acquisition of Family Dollar.
In addition to tenant credit the store level performance of our retail tenants remains positive.
Our weighted average coverage ratio on our retail properties was 2.6 times on a four wall basis and importantly the medium is also 2.6 times.
Moving on to acquisitions we continue to see a very high volume of acquisition opportunities.
During the quarter we sourced about 9.5 billion in acquisition opportunities and completed 210 million at a cash cap rate of 6.9%.
So we remain selective in our investment strategy.
There continues to be a lot of capital pursuing these transactions and we continue to see cap rates check down a bit for the higher quality properties we're pursuing.
However our investments spreads relative to our cost of capital continue to be quite attractive.
Subsequent to the first quarter end we closed an additional 302 million in acquisitions bringing us to a total of 512 million in acquisitions for the first four months of the year.
We expect acquisitions volume for 2015 to be at the high end of our previous acquisitions guidance range of 700 million to 1 billion given what we’re seeing today.
We continue to selectively sell assets and redeploy that capital and to properties that better fit our investment strategy.
During the quarter we sold nine properties for $22.1 million.
We continued to anticipate dispositions to be around 50 million for 2015.
I’ll hand it over to Sumit to discuss our acquisitions and dispositions in more detail now.
Sumit? Thank you John.
We are in the first quarter of 2015 we invested 2010 million in 83 properties approximately 2.5 million per property located in 24 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 6.9% and the weighted average lease term of 15.5 years.
As a reminder our initial cap rates or cash are not GAAP which tend to be higher due to straight lining of rent.
We define cash cap rates as contractual cash net operating income for the first 12 months of each lease following the acquisition date divided by the total cost of the property including all expenses borne by Realty Income.
On a revenue basis 60% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants and the rest of the revenues are from retail tenants that are non-investment grade or not rated.
74% of the revenues are generated from retail and 26% are from industrial and distribution assets.
These assets are leased to 15 different tenants in 12 industries.
Some of the most significant industries represented our diversified industrial quick service restaurants and automotive services.
Of the nine independent transactions closed in the first quarter only one transaction was about 50 million.
Transaction still continues to remain healthy resource more than 9 billion in the first quarter.
Of these opportunities 54% of the volumes sourced were portfolios and 46% or approximately 4 billion were one-off assets.
Investment grade opportunities represented 55% for the first quarter.
Of the $210 million in acquisitions closed in the first quarter approximately 41% were one-off transactions.
94% of the transactions closed were relationship driven.
We remained selective and disciplined in our investment approach closing on less than 3% of deals sourced and continued to capitalize on our extensive industry relationships developed over our 46 year operating history.
As to pricing cap rates continued to remain tight in the first quarter with investment grade properties trading from low 5% to high 6% cap rate range and non-investment grade properties trading from high 5% to low 8% cap rate range.
As John highlighted our disposition activities remained active.
During the quarter we sold nine properties with 22 million at a net cash cap rate of 7.7% and realized an unlevered internal rate of return of over 12.5%.
Our investment spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital were very healthy averaging 248 basis points in the first quarter which was significantly above our historical average spreads.
We define investment spreads as initial cash yield less our nominal first year weighted average cost of capital.
In conclusion the first quarter investments remained solid at 210 million while sourcing more than 9 billion in transactions.
Our spreads remained comfortably above our historical level as a tight cap rate environment in the first quarter was more than offset by our improving cost of capital.
We remain selective in pursuing opportunities that are in line with our long-term strategic objectives and within our acquisition parameters.
We continue to seek advantage of an aggressive pricing environment to accelerate disposition of assets that are no longer a strategic fit.
As John mentioned we believe that our acquisitions for 2015 will be at the high end of our previous acquisitions guidance range of 700 million to 1 billion.
With that I’d like to hand it back to John.
Thanks Sumit.
Our activities continued to result in healthy per share earnings growth which supports the payment of the liable monthly dividends that increase over time.
We increased the dividend this quarter by 2.6%.
We’ve increased our dividend every year since the company's listing in 1994 growing the dividend at a compound average annual rate of almost 5%.
Our payout ratio in the first quarter was 83.7% which is a level we continue to be comfortable with.
Finally to wrap it up we’re pleased with the results for the quarter and with the investment opportunities we continue to see in the acquisitions market We remain well positioned to execute on acquisitions with approximately 1.1 billion available on the credit facility today.
Our cost of capital advantage continues to support our ability to drive healthy earnings accretion for our shareholders.
At this time I would like to open it up for questions Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
We’ll take our first question today from Nick Joseph from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
I am wondering if you expect any impact to your portfolio from Walgreens’ announcement of the 200 store closings.
Nick this is John here.
I think that Walgreens is looking at closing 200 underperforming stores while at the same time opening up 200 new stores.
Our average lease term with Walgreens is 14 years and we have good performing stores we only have about five coming due in the next three or four years and those are all strong performers.
If they were to close one of our stores of course they would be responsible for paying rent through the term of the lease.
But we’re not expecting any impact from that at all.
We continue to like that business quite a bit as you know.
And then in terms of the updated guidance at least that acquisitions trending towards the high end can you update us on the capital plan for the remainder of the year given where the balance sheet is today? So it will be a function of where we are on acquisitions for the remainder of the year.
We have front loaded our equity a fair amount this year as you know partly as a result of the S&amp;P inclusion so we've raised 379 million in equity to date I would see over the balance of the year we’ll tend to go in the direction of fixed income markets but we’ll look at both equity and debt markets and determine at the appropriate time what makes the most sense for the company from a funding perspective.
But given where we are with the balance sheet and what we’ve done year-to-date we’ve got a lot of flexibility there.
Our next question will come from Vikram Malhotra from Morgan Stanley.
I was just wondering if you could give us the cap rate the overall cap rate on the acquisitions I think was 6 7 if you could break that out between the retail and the industrial assets? Sure.
Sumit do you want to handle that.
So on the industrial side the cap rate was in the low 6 zip code and on the retail side it was in the very low 7 just right above 7 so blended that was 6 7 on the acquisitions.
And then on the additional assets that you bought subsequent to the quarter could you just give us some more color as to maybe just high level which sectors or what type of asset they were? We will release the details on those acquisitions on our second quarter earnings call in July as we typically do.
What we can say is that it was principally attributable to a large sale leaseback transaction with an existing tenant.
And we're have limited in terms of what we can say about it at this time.
We thought it would be helpful to disclose amount in April to put context along with our guidance for the year in terms of acquisitions.
And then just looking at the investment grade exposure overall I am sure it’s every quarter things can move around.
But just high level it seems like that percentage has maybe creeped up the last few quarters.
I am just kind of wondering if you just have a sort of governor in some sense I mean you’re close to 48% now where do you think that number could go over the next year or so.
We’re comfortable at 48%.
We don’t have a litmus test or a target.
We execute both the non-investment grade and investment grade transactions that are investment strategy within our investment parameters.
I will say that as a result of the Dollar Tree acquisition of Family Dollar you will see the investment grade percentage tick down to the mid-40 to probably be around 44% at the end of the quarter because Family Dollar will go from investment grade to non-investment grade.
But I think it will remain in the 40s and generally the mid-upper 40s for the remainder of the year.
I don’t think it will change substantially.
We’re happy with the credit profile of the portfolio and again we’ll execute both the non-investment grade and investment grade opportunities that make sense for us.
So that at this point driven by the opportunities we’re seeing in the marketplace.
And then just last one obviously I know it’s very small percentage of the portfolio that will come up for re-leasing.
But just have you seen any of the tenants or any desire to maybe move down in terms of whenever renewals come-up? Typically the renewals are for the existing tenants around five years and for new tenants about seven years that’s held strong for last five ten years and we’re not really getting much feedback that that’s changing.
So we’re not seeing much pressure for shorter lease terms nor we able to extend those lease terms much further into the future than five and seven years.
Our next question will come from Collin Mings with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple of questions here first you guys provide maybe an update on where the watch list stand I think last quarter you referenced it maybe 1.5% of revenues any changes to that any changes in the composition? It’s 1.2% of revenues today.
It’s about a 150 million in properties.
There is a fair amount of casual dining and child daycare on that.
This really hasn’t changed substantially since the last quarter.
And then as far as the acquisition is completed year-to-date but at least during the 1Q can you may be talk about the breakout between rent bumps and what you’re getting for the investment grade versus non-investment grade.
Yes it’s pretty much in line with what they’ve done historically.
On investment grade overall they’re averaging around 1%.
On the non-investment grade they are around 1.7% somewhere around there.
So not much of the change in terms of rent growth from the acquisitions we did in the first quarter versus what we’ve done over the last few years.
And then maybe just remind us just bigger picture here John as you think about where assets trading right now relative to replacement cost.
I think in the past you’ve highlighted some of the deals that are getting out there.
These assets are trading well above replacement cost.
I mean how does that look in the current environment and how much of a consideration is that if you’re thinking about the different deals that are coming across your desk.
It’s a significant consideration for us.
When we have 9.5 billion of acquisition opportunities like we did in the first quarter yet we execute 210 million we’re being very selective and a lot of that is driven by structures and pricing that is being given by the markets of these sellers that we’re not willing to match.
And that that certainly includes a fair amount of not only rents that are well above market but also replacement cost that are sometimes 150% to 200% pricing of replacement costs 150% to 200%.
So there's some pretty aggressive structure in getting done and that’s while you see us continue to be quite selective.
And then just maybe one last one from me this goes back talking about the deals that are relationship driven I think in the past you’ve suggested maybe 20 25 basis point greater yield than some of the non-relationships deals.
Does that spread still hold true? And then is there any differential between some of the retail and non-retail assets when you think about that maybe 25 basis points advantage you get.
It’s really up to 20 basis points or so and we don’t see a difference between the retail and the industrial assets.
It holds true for both classes of assets.
Our next question will come from Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
If you were to rank the factors that are contributing to driving cap rate lower I guess across all the property types in that lease other than low interest rates would your competitors are signing value too? We’re certainly familiar with what’s important in realty incomes portfolio but how are competitors thinking about this space are they’re looking at the investment grade tenants the lease duration what’s contributing to that to make net lease a lot prominent than it once was.
Yes it’s really all over the place but the reason it’s so competitive today Todd because of the function of the yields offered and that’s clearly driven by the interest rates and alterative investments but we see a lot of players work in this space five years ago coming at and aggressively buying assets.
And in some cases I would say that there is not a lot of discipline on some of the acquisitions we see done away from us.
So there seems to be an aggressive search for yield.
And how about large deals you’re looking at certainly are comps for your guys you go back to ARCT in inland I think you highlighted that the stuff you've already acquired in Q2 as a portfolio.
What do the portfolio premiums look like how does that kind of compare to historically divest and maybe in the last two to three years.
Well we've seen really an evaporation of the portfolio premium because of resurgence in the 1031 market and lenders lending to that buyer class.
So we’ve seen the cap rates on the one-off transactions reach the cap rate that we were seeing on the portfolios and in some cases some asset classes that are even more aggressive.
So we're seeing may be the beginning of a reversal where the art is from portfolio to on-off transactions.
But that clearly today is non-premium pricing for you know portfolio transactions of several hundred million.
We will take the next question from Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
First thing on other revenue Paul that was up and I am curious what I guess that was and then what happens going forward? You know it's a typical number I think that it's best to be modeled not a zero as recommended in the past right because it's a active portfolio it's large and you know we actively manage this such that you're going to find income there periodically from easements proceeds from insurance situations on properties takings main takings of may be a small piece of land from an investment interest income so it's kind of a mismatch that you're going to have some level of a run rate there.
And then the reason was a little bit larger in this particular quarter was a whole back of some funds that we had set aside in an acquisition that was returned to us in the first quarter that the tenant did not need for some tenant improvements they had planned to do in a property that we were acquiring towards the end of last year.
So that pops it up a little bit more than usual.
So you did like 3 million last year so if you do you know 3 million to 4 million this year that’s kind of a reasonable number.
That feels about right that's correct.
And I wouldn’t annualize the number you are looking at here in this first quarter because it did have one unusual $400 000 item in it but otherwise you're going to have some income in that line item every quarter.
And then John you talked last quarter about on your development plans about wanting to grow your built-to-suit portfolio and receive a couple of hundred million annually and I think it's a little bit larger this quarter than it was I mean what if you added you know what are you working and do you still growing it to a fairly substantial size as reality? Yeah well you know we're pleased that we've been able to raise it to just under 75 million at the end of the quarter.
We continue to look for opportunities to continue to grow that and given the returns we have on those investments and the higher yields.
So we're looking at industrial properties and retail sort of a balance of the two and you know good lease terms and cap rates that are in excess of 9% versus closer to 7% high 6% on the straight acquisition side.
So what would be annual? We would like to see that thing.
What's that? Sorry I didn’t mean to interrupt you.
No I was just going to say we would like to continue to grow that -- as the year goes on.
So what kinds of things did you add do you have any examples of the sorts of projects you are working on? Yes in industrial we had a number of expansions with FedEx you know we had a large retail discount store that’s a ground up development that we started as well.
So it's pretty representative of the portfolio.
Our next question will come from Dan Donlan with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
John I was wondering if you could talk a little about Page 16 of the supplemental just looking at the fix charge coverage ratios that you guys gave there what percentage of the portfolio looks like it's 2.6 average EBITDA to rent ratio what percentage of the portfolio does that represent? The 2.6? Yes sir.
Yes it represents the retail portfolio; we got sales and P&amp;Ls on about 65% of the retail tenant.
Most of the balance that we don’t get those on are investment grade tenants.
That was going to be my next question what percentage of the non-investment grade do you not get in on it sounds like it might be basically nothing.
Yes very very small.
And then that is a that's a four wall coverage could you may be guesstimate what you think you might be if included you know may be corporate overhead? Yes I mean it would probably see may be 2 to 3 somewhere in there for G&amp;A.
And then I guess for Paul just kind of making sure the just so I understand the balance sheet is the CIP that you guys have is that is that roll through in the other assets line item? Yes it does.
And then just kind of curious as to your thoughts on may be doing some 30 year paper I know you've done it before in the past are you guys open to that is that market attractive is it open to you guys? It’s certainly open and I would say as a general comment it’s always something of interest longer term given that we like the match fund longer term with our liabilities versus as you know our long-term asset.
So it’s really just a function of how it feels and worth price in a times it’s very aggressive and is very very compelling.
So it’s something we would always consider.
You may recall that last time we did it it really was the result of a reverse increase from the life company who specifically reached out to us wanting to place third year paper with us and then we surrounded that with some other investors to create a natural trade at that time.
But it’s something we will look at each and every time when we consider typically for us long-term fixed rate liability.
And then just kind of maybe bigger picture I guess John or Sumit what are you seeing from retailers or companies that have large real-estate exposure on their books maybe they’re getting pressure from the investors to monetize.
Do you see that continue to play out is there other potential transactions out there that aren't so large that you think you can take down and what’s your appetite for this type of deals on a going forward basis.
Those [spots] continue to multiply and their discussions going on we can’t go into particulars on those but we would expect to have a couple of opportunities over the next year or two.
These things take a long-time.
The companies that we’re talking to that we’ve been talking to about this concept for a multiple years but it really seems to be gaining momentum with the activist investors coming in more pressure on some of the boards in management teams to more efficiently utilize their real-estate and potentially monetize it.
So the number of discussions we always had these discussions and say the number of these discussions and the seriousness of these discussions is both my much greater today.
So we would expect to execute on something over the next year or two on that front.
And is there some type of high water mark from percentage of rent perspective that you just don’t want to go above or if you really really like the deal are you okay with maybe increasing the tenants exposure to 10% of rents how should we think about that? I think we would be comfortable for the right tenant right company right transaction to go beyond the revenue percentage levels that we are at today.
We are at 5.5% at Walgreens and then 9.6% in terms of industry.
I could see industry and tenant going beyond that in the near-term and they we try to work our way back down to 10% plus or minus industry revenue exposure and mid single-digits in terms of tenant revenue exposure.
So we really like that diversification it’s always been an important element of the story.
We’ve never been more diversified than we are today but we would not turn in attractive transaction like that away for a period time to exceed those levels.
Our next question comes from Chris Lucas with Capital One Securities.
John just kind of following up on a couple of earlier questions really to the development program I guess could you remind us sort of how guys play there and how scalable your infrastructure is if you look to grow this and how you look to expand that program.
So what roles are you playing in that process is it just capital or there are other things that you’re providing here? It’s a capital we’re not acting as the developer we have a relationship with the number of national development companies and we'll fund development or provide a take out.
It’s always -- with the signed lease on hand.
So there is no speculative development so it’s really a capital function and I think because of that I think it’s quite scalable.
So as it relates to the process development versus acquisitions is there no more time spent on the development relative to the acquisition? No there is more time spent by our team.
We got to monitor the development process.
We work with outside advisors in terms of monitoring the construction and development and then we have our own team and our own people also involved in that.
So there is more time more effort from the management team from our team here in San Diego on development properties versus acquisitions generally speaking.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes the question-and-answer portion of Realty Income’s conference call.
I will now turn the call over to John Case for concluding remarks.
Thanks Elisabeth and thanks everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference.
And we thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Realty Income Second Quarter Operating Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Janeen Bedard Vice President.
Please go ahead.
Thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income Second Quarter 2015 Operating Results Conference Call.
Discussing our results will be John Case Chief Executive Officer; Paul Meurer Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Sumit Roy Chief Operating Officer and Chief Investment Officer.
During this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under Federal Securities law.
The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater detail the factors that may cause such differences in the Company's Form 10-Q.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Case.
Thanks Janeen and welcome to our call today.
We had a very active second quarter and we are pleased to report excellent results from an acquisitions capital markets and occupancy standpoint.
Additionally we were gratified to be added to the S&amp;P 500 Index in the second quarter.
Our AFFO per share growth was 6.3% and a record quarterly amount of $0.68 as announced in yesterday's press release we are increasing our FFO and AFFO per share guidance for 2015 given the Company's positive year-to-date performance and the continued scalability of our business.
We believe we are the most efficiently run net lease company with the highest EBITDA margin in the sector today.
We are raising our 2015 FFO per share guidance to $2.72 to $2.77 from $2.67 to $2.72.
We are raising and tightening the range of our AFFO per share guidance to 2.69 to 2.73 from $2.66 to $2.71.
As we continue to anticipate another solid year of earnings growth.
Now I will hand it over to Paul to provide additional detail on our financial results.
Thanks John.
As usual I will provide some brief highlights of our financial results for the quarter starting with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 11.1% for the quarter; this increase reflects our growth primarily from new acquisitions over the past year as well as healthy same-store rent growth.
Our annualized rental revenue at June 30th was approximately $983 million.
On the expense side interest expense increased in the quarter to $58.7 million.
This increase was primarily due to our two bond offerings last year the $350 million 10 year notes issued in June and $250 million 12 year notes issued in September.
We also recognized a non-cash loss of approximately $900 000 on interest rate swaps during the quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remained strong with interest coverage at 4.0 times and fixed charge coverage at 3.6 times.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses were approximately $12.6 million for the quarter.
Included in G&amp;A expenses is approximately $192 000 in acquisition cost.
And note that we do include these acquisition costs in our calculation to both FFO and AFFO.
Year to date our G&amp;A as a percentage of total rental and other revenues is only 5.3%.
Our projection for G&amp;A expenses in 2015 is now approximately $52 million down from our prior estimate of $55 million as we realized lower than expected expense growth given the efficiencies of our business.
Property expenses which were not reimbursed by tenants totaled $3.3 million for the quarter.
And our current projection for property expenses that we will be responsible for in 2015 remains unchanged at approximately $20 million.
Provisions for impairment of approximately $3.2 million during the quarter includes impairments we recorded on three properties classified as held for sale and two properties classified as held for investment.
Gain on sales were approximately $3.7 million in the quarter and just a reminder we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or AFFO.
Funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.69 for the quarter a 7.8% increase versus a year ago.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividends was $0.68 per share for the quarter a 6.3% increase versus the year ago.
Dividend paid increased 4% in the second quarter and we again increased our cash monthly dividend this quarter.
Our monthly dividend now equates to a current annualized amount of $2.28 per share.
Now let me briefly turned to the balance sheet.
We've continued to maintain our conservative capital structure.
As you know in early April we raised approximately $276 million of new equity capital in conjunction with our addition to the S&amp;P 500 Index.
The index inclusion was an excellent opportunity to raise capital at a very low cost by offering shares to the index funds needing to buy our stock on that day.
We raised an additional $106 million of equity capital during the quarter through our direct stock purchase plan.
Our bonds which are all unsecured and fixed rates and continued to be rated BAA1 BBB+ at a weighted average maturity of 6.7 years.
At the end of the quarter we recapped and expanded our unsecured acquisition credit facility from $1.5 billion to $2.25 billion comprised of a $2 billion revolving credit facility and a $250 million term loan which is due in 2020 when we have no scheduled unsecured debt maturities.
At our current BBB+ BAA1 credit rating the borrowing rate on the revolver is LIBOR plus 90 basis points with a facility commitment fee of 15 basis points which overall represents a 20 basis point reduction for the all in drawn borrowing rate of the previous facility.
We very much appreciate the capital commitments from the 21 banks that participated in the syndication of this larger facility for us.
Our new $2 billion credit facility had a $430 million balance at June 30th.
We did not assume any mortgages during the quarter.
We did pay off some at maturity so our outstanding net mortgage debt at quarter end decreased to approximately $757 million.
Not including our credit facility the only variable rate debt exposure we have is on just $15.5 million of mortgage debt.
And our overall debt maturity schedule remains in very good shape with only $40 million in mortgages and $150 million of bonds coming due in 2015 and our maturity schedule is well lathered thereafter.
Currently our debt to total market capitalization is approximately 32% and our preferred stock outstanding is only 2.5% of our capital structure.
And our debt to EBITDA at quarter end was approximately 5.9 times.
Now let me turn the call back over to John who will give you more background on the quarter.
Thanks Paul.
I’ll begin with an overview of the portfolio which continues to perform well.
Occupancy based on the number of properties was 98.2% a 20 basis points improvement from last quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had 81 properties available for lease out of 4 452 properties on our portfolio.
Economic occupancy was 99.2% and occupancy based on square footage was 98.8% both up 10 basis points from last quarter.
We continue to see good leasing activity and expect our occupancy to remain around current levels for the end of the year.
We have leases expire on 80 properties during the quarter and we re-leased 81 properties.
73 of those properties were re-leased to existing tenants and 8 for re-leased to new tenants recapturing 106% of expiring rents.
This compares favourably to our historical recapture rate of approximately 98% of expiring rents.
Additionally four vacant properties were sold during the quarter.
Our same-store rent increased 1.5% during the quarter and 1.4% year-to-date.
The industry is contributing the most to our quarterly same-store rent growth for health and fitness and motor vehicle dealerships.
We expect same-store rent growth to remain about 1.4% for the foreseeable future.
90% of our leases have contractual rent increases.
So we remain pleased with the growth we are able to achieve from our properties leased to both our investment grade and non-investment grade tenants.
Approximately 75% of our investments grade leases had rental rate growth that averages about 1.3%.
Our portfolio continues to be diversified by tenant industry geography and to a certain extent property type.
At the end of the second quarter our properties were leased to 235 commercial tenants and 47 different industries located in 49 states in Puerto Rico.
Our diversification contributes to the stability of our cash flow.
79% of our rental revenue is from our traditional retail properties.
The largest component outside of retail is industrial properties at 13%.
This quarter we reclassified 14 assets previously classified as manufacturing properties representing approximately 2% of rent for our investor category which better reflects these properties’ uses and better clarify our portfolio composition.
We continue to focus on retail properties leased to tenants without service non-discretionary and/or low price point component to their business.
Today more than 90% of our retail revenue comes from businesses with these characteristics which better positions them to successfully operate in a variety of economic environments and to compete with ecommerce.
At the end of the second quarter our top 20 tenants continue to capture nearly every tenant representing more than 1% of our rental revenue.
Our largest channel is Walgreens which now accounts for 7.1% of rental revenue the increase from 5.5% at the end of the last quarter.
We continue to like Walgreens’ business their high quality real estate locations and the rent growth we received.
We also were confident in the strength of these properties given the visibility we have into their unit level performance.
FedEx remains our second largest tenant at 4.9% of rental revenue.
This quarter we added a new name to our top 20 tenants.
Life Time Fitness is now our 13th largest tenant representing 2% of that.
During the second quarter we executed a sale lease back transaction with Life Time Fitness.
Life Time Fitness is the tenant we had been meeting with and pursuing for about 10 year now.
We followed them through challenging and favourable economic conditions and have been impressed with the performance of their business.
We also believe their well located real estate and excellent surrounding demographics and the service orientation of their business make them a great addition to our portfolio.
Drug stores remain our largest industry at 10.7% of rental revenue and increased from 9.6% at the end of the first quarter.
The drug store industry continues to be an area we favour given the ageing of our population and today's healthcare trends.
The convenient store industry is our second largest at 9.4% of rental revenue.
Dollar stores are at 9.1% down 20 basis points from last quarter as many of you may know Dollar Tree completed its acquisition of Family Dollar this month subsequent for our second quarter end.
As part of the transaction in FTC identifying 330 of the combined 14 000 stores for the divestiture there was no financial impact on our rental revenue as a result of these divestitures.
Pro forma Dollar Tree will represent 4.3% of rental revenue health and fitness is our fourth largest industry at 7.2% of rental revenue a 40 basis points increase from last quarter.
Health and fitness is the sector we have been invested in since 1998 and it has performed very well for us we continue to like health and fitness given the favourable demographics supporting this industry.
We continue to have excellent credit quality in the portfolio with 48% of our rental revenue generated from investment grade rated tenants.
The store level performance of our retail tenants remain sound our weighted average rent coverage ratio for the retail properties is 2.6 times on a four wall basis and importantly the median is also 2.6 times.
Moving on to acquisitions we had a very active second quarter investing 721 million at an initial cash cap rate of 6.3% and initial average lease term of over 18 years.
This is the second highest quarterly volume and property level acquisitions in the Company's history.
Our straight line cap rate during the quarter was 7% which reflects the attractive rent growth of the acquisition.
For the first half of the year we completed 931 million in acquisitions at an initial cash cap rate of 6.4% and an initial average lease term of nearly 18 years.
Cap rates remain aggressive but stable.
However our investment spreads continue to be favorable and remain above their historical norms.
We continue to see a high volume of acquisition opportunities.
During the quarter we sourced about 10.5 billion in acquisition opportunities which brings us to 20 billion in sourced opportunities for the year.
Given our acquisitions activity to-date and the high volume of opportunities we continue to see we are increasing our acquisitions guidance for 2015 to approximately 1.25 billion from our previous estimate of 1 billion.
We continue to selectively sell non-strategic assets and redeploy that capital into properties that better fit our investment strategies.
During the first half of the year we sold 14 properties for $30.5 million.
We sold our least non-strategic assets at a cap rate of 7.8%.
We continue to expect a minimum of 50 million in dispositions for 2015 and that figure could go up a bit.
Now I'll hand it over to Sumit to discuss our acquisitions and dispositions in more detail.
Thank you John.
During the second quarter of 2015 we invested 721 million in 100 properties located in 33 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 6.3% and with a weighted average lease term of 18.2 years.
We define cash cap rates as contractual cash net operating income for the first 12 months following the acquisition date divided by the total cost of the property including all expenses borne by Realty Income.
On a revenue basis 49% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants and the rest of the revenues are from retail tenants that are non-investment grade or not rated.
98% of the revenues are generated from retail and 2% are from industrial.
These assets are leased to 21 different tenants and 13 industries.
Some of the most significant industries represented are health and fitness drug stores and home improvement.
Of the 16 independent transactions closed in the second quarter two transactions were about 50 million.
Year to date second quarter 2015 we invested 931 million in 166 properties located in 35 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 6.4% and with a weighted average lease term of 17.5 years.
On the revenue basis 52% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants and the rest of the revenues are from retail tenants that are non-investment grade or not rated.
92% of the revenues are generated from retail and 8% are from industrial these assets are leased to 27 different tenants in 16 industries.
Some of the most significant industries represented our health and fitness drug stores and quick service restaurants.
Of the 25 independent transactions closed year to date three transactions were about 50 million.
Transaction flow continues to remain healthy we resources more than 10 billion in the second quarter.
Year-to-date we have sourced approximately 20 billion in potential transaction opportunities.
Of these opportunities 66% of the volumes sourced were portfolios and 34% or approximately 7 billion were one-off assets.
Investment grade opportunities represented 21% for the year-to-date.
Of the $721 million in acquisitions closed in the second quarter approximately 5% were one-off transactions.
We remained selective and disciplined in our investment approach closing on less than 7% of deals sourced and continued to capitalize on our extensive industry relationships.
As to pricing cap rates continued to remain tight in the second quarter with investment grade properties trading from around 5% to high 6% cap rate range and non-investment grade properties trading from high 5% to low 8% cap rate range.
As John highlighted our disposition program remained active.
During the quarter we sold five properties for 8 million at a net cash cap rate of 8.1% and realized an unlevered IRR of over 11.6%.
This brings us to 14 properties sold year-to-date for 30.1 million at a net cash cap rate of 7.8% and realized an unlevered IRR of 12.3%.
Our investments spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital were healthy averaging 140 basis points in the second quarter which were around our historical average spreads.
We define investment spreads as initial cash yield less the nominal first year weighted average cost of capital.
Year-to-date based on the weighted average cost of the long-term capital raised our estimated investment spreads were approximately 200 basis points notably above our historical average.
In conclusion the second quarter investments remain solid at 7.21 million while sourcing more than 10 billion in transactions.
Our year-to-date spreads remained about historical levels.
We continue to be very selective in pursuing opportunities that are in line with our long-term strategic objectives and within our acquisition parameters.
We are also taking advantage of an aggressive pricing environment to dispose assets that are no longer a strategic fit.
As John mentioned we are raising our acquisition guidance for 2015 to approximately 1.25 billion.
With that I'd like to hand it back to John.
Thanks Sumit.
We are pleased to have taken advantage of the capital market conditions during the first half of the year that satisfied the majority of our capital needs for acquisitions year-to-date raising 484 million in equity capital at an average per share price of approximately $50 and issuing a $250 million unsecured term loan at 2.7%.
Additionally our new $2 billion revolving credit facility was recapped at a lower rate than our previous revolver and provides for additional financial flexibility as we continue to grow our company.
Our sector leading cost of capital continues to allow us to drive earnings growth while investing in high quality assets.
We increased the dividends pay this quarter by 4% on a year-over-year basis.
We have increased our dividend every year since the Company's listing in 1994 growing the dividend at a compound average annual rate of almost 5%.
Our payout ratio in the second quarter was 83.7% which is a level we continue to be comfortable with.
Finally to wrap it up we continue to maintain excellent momentum in our business.
We continue to have very active dialogues regarding potential acquisition opportunities with existing and perspective tenets.
We remain well positioned to execute on acquisitions with approximately 1.6 billion available on our new $2 billion revolving line of credit.
At this time I would like to open it up for questions operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Juan Sanabria with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is actually Josh Dennerlein with Juan Sanabria.
Two questions for you guys.
First can you talk about the specific cap rates rent coverages and annual rent bumps for the Walgreens in Life Time Fitness portfolios? No we're not allowed to talk about the specifics of the Walgreens transaction based on non-disclosure agreement we've executed with them.
Okay.
How about Life Time Fitness any -- could you maybe talk about how you thought about alternative values and residual values for the assets? Yes I can walk you through Life Time Fitness obviously it is an industry we like we've been in that industry since 1998.
There continues to be a secular shift to healthy lifestyles and we're seeing that in the health and fitness facilities.
We see that with both baby boomers and millennials.
And health club usage continues to rise.
We saw attractive risk-adjusted returns in this investment.
It's well structured with a strong cash flow coverage of 3.2 times and a drop in sales to breakeven on our property to 45%.
If you look at the last recession the great recession Life Time same-store revenues fell by just under 3% in 2008 and about 7% in 2009 and then turned positive in subsequent years.
So they performed quite well during some very challenging times.
The properties that we own are located in the affluent dense markets with high on average household incomes of 74 000 within a 5 mile radius and in densely populated areas with 217 000 people within a 5 mile radius of our properties.
We were able to execute this transaction at about a 20% discount to replacement cost and have a portfolio of properties that are well above the average sales.
And EBITDAR levels of the overall cause so we were quite pleased with it.
The going in cap rate was 6.5% the straight line cap rate which would reflect the growth and the cash growth in the lease over the lease term was about 8%.
So we were pleased with the growth.
As we look at the transaction we really viewed it more as something and when you ask 10 years of financial and operating history and our credit and research team analogue that quite subtly.
And we were convinced that these would continue to be operated as health and fitness clubs.
If there had to be a residual use the most likely residual use would be office if they could not be used as health clubs but there are other companies that have operated large health clubs of this size including Club Core Equinox and Bay Club.
So they could be potential tenants as well.
So if we were to convert these to office they are probably looking at something from $50 to $75 a foot to make these office properties but that's not really having looked at it.
We will go next to Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
I'm curious what the impact is of interest rate volatility in terms of your conversations with potential sellers? Well it comes up some there's been a fair amount of it and it comes up in discussions where we're talking about pricing and it is something certainly that witnessed a down swing sellers are trying to put pressure on us and when there's an upswing in the 10 year treasury rate we are certainly are pushing for more yield with regard to our initial cap rates and our overall cap rates.
You've historically seen a correlation between increased volatility and less acquisition volume or do you think it's more just on the pricing? No I mean we've been in an environment that has been volatile with regard to interest rates as you've seen and we've sourced year-to-date $20 billion in acquisition opportunities which puts us on a pace that would break our all time high in terms of sourced acquisition opportunities.
And then tell us about the decision to issue the five year debt versus doing a longer dated maturity? Yes sure we did issue the $250 million of five year unsecured note with our bank growth and it was really done for several reasons.
One is we did have a window in our maturity schedule at five years and one of the issues with the banks has been that we typically not kept a lot of outstandings on our revolver.
And they were looking for more funded balances so when we had 21 banks step up and connect to a recast new expanded facility of $2 billion and we wanted to make sure we were meeting some of their demands and some of their desires as well and something they had asked for was a concurrent term loan with a revolver and they were much more comfortable and desirable on a five year term than a 10 year term where we also have a window on our maturities.
So that drove it and very attractive pricing pricing well inside of where we could have gotten a five-year unsecured note issued in the unsecured debt market.
Thanks and then I guess with over 400 on the credit facility and then 150 million coming due later in this year.
Should we expect a 10 year offering later? We're going to look at our capital options as the markets evolve over the remainder of the year and determine how we want to fund the business based on what the market share was.
So it could range from all types of capital now from 10 year longer to equity as well.
We'll go next to Vikram Malhotra with Morgan Stanley.
Just to clarify on Life Time.
Can you may be I guess you looked at some of the other tranches or portfolios or with tranches within Life Time that were being marketed.
What were maybe some of the differences it sounds like maybe the term of the rent pumps were different from something that one of your peers took about? The portfolios were all very similar.
And we were obviously pleased with the portfolio we received and were able to work with Life Time in structuring that portfolio and it met our demands and it also met the desires of the Life Time team.
But your rent bumps were higher or your term was different from the other portfolios? Our lease term was 25 years which I think is different than the lease term on some of the other portfolios I believe.
Okay and then as you look at these couple of portfolio you've done.
Is there -- are they under a master lease and can you -- do you have the ability to if you choose to maybe sell a few of the assets? Yes they're under a master lease but we have no intention of selling the assets that are in that portfolio.
Okay and then just maybe last one if you look forward if you look at your guidance obviously it bakes in about 150 million a quarter which is a bit lower but I'm assuming that’s just kind of the baseline acquisitions the relationship driven ones.
And so over and above that there could be other portfolios that you may close? Yes the acquisitions status we have provided for the year assumes our one-off transactions as well as our smaller portfolio transactions and we did not factor in any large sale lease back or very large portfolio transactions? And just what cap rate are you assuming for the back half of the year? As we look forward we think cap rates will be in the mid to high 6s for the type of properties we buy.
We’ll go next to Tyler Grant with Green Street Advisors.
You guys have done a good job raising the bar for the net lease sector on real estate related disclosure.
With that said it seems that a good next progression should be to improve disclosure related to the quality of the lease contracts.
So for example the percentage of tenants that report unit level financials investment amounts relative to replacement costs or the proportion of assets that are not operating but are paying rents.
Can you provide some numbers for lease data points now and maybe for similar data points that you believe are worth mentioning.
And then also going forward what's the feasibility of providing this type of data systematically within your quarterly financials? Yes I mean we will continue as we have done this quarter to add data to our supplemental investor package which we agree with you is the most robust in the industry.
A lot of our competitors are not providing anywhere near the level of information we are.
And we certainly have issues with some of the information that present competitive issues for us to consider.
So we're going to see where the industry involves to our and continue to add and tweak our supplemental package.
But in terms of just a full dump of everything we're not anticipating doing that for competitive reasons at this point.
And I guess if I look at it even if we got aggregate numbers.
So for example the converge ratio of 2.6 that you guys disclosed.
What percentage of your retailers are actually providing you with financials so that you can arrive at that figure? Yes so just under 70% of our retail tenants providers’ sales and profit and loss information.
So that should give you an idea of what that number is.
We'll go next to Dan Donlan with Ladenburg Thalmann.
John or Sumit we're just curious the releasing spread of 107 was up nicely versus the first quarter and seems to be quite higher than I would have expected given kind of the nature of your business.
Can you maybe talk about why the leasing spread was so positive was it any one tenant or any detail would be helpful? Yes I mean the primary reason why as we were able to retain 90% of our existing tenants this quarter.
And those tenants typically have options to renew those options have a fairly significant cost to them.
So they exercise the options to renew and that resulted in the high rent relative to the expiring rent.
Okay.
And then just...
Go ahead.
Yes and I was asking another question the -- as far as your tenants that are not rated could you maybe give us a percentage of those tenants that are not rated because they don't have any debt in other words they would be investment grades but they just don't have any debt or do you have any metrics on that? Well we do and I don't have them off the top of my head there are a number of tenants you're talking about the 52% non-investment grade rated tenants? Right.
I would say that you can get that figure but we don't have that right now.
I mean some are rated and are below investment grade and some are simply not rated and have excellent balance sheets but are just not rated.
Okay.
And then I guess a question for Paul.
The $20 million of un-reimbursed property expenses seems fairly high given that you've only recognized I think 7.3 million year-to-date.
So just kind of curious is there some type of seasonality in this number or are you just being conservative or is there some type of onetime items you're expecting? And that's good observation.
So the property expenses have come in a little bit lower maintenance utilities bad debt expense is lower kind of across the board.
There is a little bit of seasonality typically the second half of the year un-reimbursed property expenses are higher.
But to be candid that 20 million is a number we're monitoring and we suspect that that could be a high estimate we shall see as the year progresses but the second half for the year typically is a little bit higher.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then just on the G&amp;A coming down 3 million you briefly touched on it but we are just kind of curious if you could give us a little bit more detail I mean did you just not need to hire as many people or kind of what was more detail would be helpful? I can provide that we did realize some specific cost savings that we had not anticipated in October when we originally constructed the G&amp;A budget for this year and those were really in our legal area with insurance.
And with our annual report and when you handle that this year and those on a combined basis were seven figure number with regard to savings.
We also saw that we are more appropriately staffed for our activity than we had expected to be last October.
Over the last four years we have increased our headcounts here by 50% and we have added a lot of skilled excellent staff members team members who have done a great job.
So we're really beginning to realize the efficiencies and the scalability of our business and this was a conscious decision we made several years ago that build the team anticipating the growth in the sector and certainly our continued growth.
So that's what you're seeing in that G&amp;A line.
And we're certainly pleased to see it.
And I would expect our G&amp;A margins to continue to be at this level or even continue to decline.
And then just last one for Paul more or John.
Just kind of curious on the decision to swap out that the term note you really don't have a lot of floating rate debt and I can understand being conservative but why not just have a little bit more floating rate debt at this point in time what's the thought process there? We looked at that in fact when we were making that decision we took a look at our peer group inclusive of not only the net-lease sector but our S&amp;P 500 peers and what our floating rate debt exposure looks like in our balance sheet we compared very favourably even if we had not swapped out that term loan we would still be very much in the low-end of that spectrum in terms of exposure to variable rate and floating rate debt in our balance sheet.
But ultimately we came to the decision that we wanted to continue to handle the balance sheet as we have historically which is to lock in longer term generally unsecured fixed rate alternatives there that much fund our acquisitions and not to be exposed to any rising interest rates going forward and the volatility that that's associated with.
But right now other than our credit facility the only exposure we have to variable rate debt is the $15.5 million of mortgage debt exposure.
We'll go next to Todd Lukasik with Morningstar Capital.
Just one on the same-store rents I noticed motor vehicle dealerships were a large contributor up 17% in the quarter can you just explain how you got such a big jump? Is that just bigger re-leasing spreads upon expiration and renewal or it is something else going on there? Really it was a function of percentage rents that drove that.
Trading with those which is our largest motor vehicle dealership kind of had a particularly strong first half of the year and as we see economy recover we've seen RV sales grow quite a bit and as a result they took in some percentage rents which derive that number.
Is that something that resets the base rents higher then or is that potentially a headwind at some time in future quarters? No it doesn't reset the base rent.
And then I think historically you guys have had a bit more preserved equity in the capital structure.
I'm just wondering if you could go through your thought process on that is it likely to increase again on a go-forward basis there is preferred too expensive at this point relative to other funding sources? Right now it is not priced appropriately it's something we always looked at and we do have about 2% out there in preferred right now.
But it's been more efficient and effective for us to use alternative forms and capital given where that market is right now.
There's certainly windows in that market where it's attractive and we will consider reassuring but currently that opportunity does not exist.
Okay and then just one last one from me.
Can you comment on what percentage of the transactions that you evaluate and maybe also the percentage of transactions that you close if the number is different? That are off market as opposed to being marketed to a number of potential buyers or is there everything just so competitive that it is all on market stuff? Well I mean most of what we did this year has been relationship oriented.
It's over 90% but that doesn't mean we were the only firm to look at the acquisition.
That could be a strictly negotiated transaction with the tenant or seller which some have been but it also could mean they accepted our price at a lower price in order to do business with us given the strength of our relationship or they gave us a last look at the pricing on the transaction and an opportunity to top the competitor based on the relationship.
The two large sales lease backs that we did this quarter were really during primarily on relationship basis although as we have already discussed the Life Time was shown doing select few players in this sector.
We're going next to Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Just to beat a dead horse on the Life Time deal I recall you get to pick and choose somewhat when the BJ's wholesale portfolio went to a few buyers was that the case with this deal I mean how much more real estate could you have acquired and did you get first look? There were just a select few firms in this business that got the first look so we were not the exclusive one.
And we did have an opportunity to help construct the portfolio that we ended up with.
And then just as part of the underwriting with the tenant now that's owned by private equity firm is there an extra margin of safety that you factor in versus say doing a sale-leaseback with an owner that may have a longer term ownership time horizon? No we certainly approached the private equity driven transactions with caution for a good reason.
Generally there time horizon is shorter in terms of their investment in the business than a corporate tenant driven transaction.
However in this case the senior and executive management team are likely be to remain major owners of the company and continue to own it.
So that was a bit unique but even given that you heard me earlier Todd walk through the metrics.
We structured this transaction very conservatively so we feel very comfortable with that.
But we certainly have the added comfort of knowing that the CEO and the management team are heavily invested in the equity of this company going forward.
Okay thanks John.
And Paul your line is credit obviously expanded.
It now has a $430 million balance.
How do you evaluate how big a balance remains comfortable I guess in your eyes is it relative to how much availability you have? Is it a percentage of total debt? What kind of measurement steps do you use? Overall we are always going to look at the overall leverage in the organization.
And that would be a piece of that leverage right? So you can’t just look at it by itself.
The nice thing about having a larger facility as it just generally gives us more flexibility.
It allows us to I don’t want to say time to permanent capital markets but at least be available when something is attractive either in equity or in bonds or whatever it might be and having a larger line carrying a little bit more balance still doesn’t jeopardize the liquidity that we like to have available there for our acquisition efforts.
So it is just is a net positive for us in terms of our acquisition approach going forward having that liquidity and then having the flexibility to do something when the timing is right relative to the market.
But we don’t look at it by itself we look at it as a piece of the raw capital structure and that our primary exposure if you will to variable rate debt.
Okay and then looks like you used the five year term loan at a pretty low coupon to fund some of the Q2 acquisitions.
That would done at a cap rate closer to six than say your traditional 7% is it fair to say that we won't be seeing those low cap rates in your acquisitions going forward just because you'll be probably tapping longer term capital? Yes I think from a cap rate standpoint what we'll be looking at are cap rates for the remainder of the year and the mid to upper 6s.
And we really didn’t find that finding acquisition sort of luring the year at more aggressive cap rates at shorter term debt because the cap rates were lower it was really more a function of what I explained earlier and that once that we had the five year window in our maturity schedule and the banks were very supportive about having a balance outstanding through them since our historical utilization of the line of credit had been minimal.
We'll go next to Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
And Paul I have a question for you too on the expenses and the tenant reimbursements.
We calculate an expense recovery ratio and so we look at the percentage that you get back and that jumped in the quarter because you got a bunch of tenant reimbursements and a lot of extra operating expenses.
Is that the right way to think about it because as you do more acquisitions right you're going to assume some of sort of tenant recovery rate that isn’t 100%.
And then why do you think that would have jumped in the second quarter? Yes I saw that dialogue in your piece and any look at as we have mentioned EBITDA margins for the business I think is a very good way to look at it.
Because we think we’re very efficient not only in our G&amp;A but in our property expense side.
There is no trend there Rich each lease has its own element of negotiation or if it is an existing lease that we assume relative to the nature of what might be reimbursed or what we may or may not be responsible for.
So there is no real trend to look to there in terms of expenses being reimbursed any more or less now or going forward.
Other than to say that we expect that to be continue to be a very efficient line item less than 2% of our overall revenues in the portfolio in the property expense area.
And then as you get acquisitions I assume going forward you're not going to get 100% recovery.
So we got to think about as we grow your portfolio with acquisitions we got to put some of that as non-recovered expenses as well? It depends on the type of acquisitions we're doing.
The majority of them are all recoverable so we would not anticipate that percentage 2% moving very much in fact it may come down a bit especially given some of the recent acquisitions we've made.
Then I'm curious when you guys when you did your 200 basis points spread calculation to the cost of assets with the cost of capital.
What stock price did you initially said it was a long-term sort of view.
But I mean like what roughly was the stock price used to get something like that? Yes so it was just a shade under $50 it was 49.70.
If you look at the V-Lock of our capital for the first six months of year and look at our spreads on our acquisitions year to date based on that number.
The spreads are 170 basis points so 80% we funded 80% of the acquisitions we've done year to date and based on the cost of the actual funding we viewed our spreads to our weighted average cost of capital were 200 basis points which was the number you heard too as I said earlier.
Does that answer your question? Yes it does yes thank you John.
So as I think about yes it does very much thank you as i think going forward then at the current share price they are not substantially below then I mean a little bit below that.
But I guess it wouldn’t hurt your spreads significantly even the issue equity here? Our cost of capital overall right now is running just below 5% so it's still attractively priced.
So if we can continue to buy assets at initial spreads 150 to 175 basis points based on our anticipated cap rates for the reminder of the year those cap rates are still -- those spreads are still comfortably above our historical averages so we’d be pleased with that.
Our cost of equity is reasonable at this level.
And certainly our debt costs while they have come up a little bit we can still issue 10 year debt right around 4%.
Okay.
Good thanks.
And then the last thing I had was on your build to suite or your development pipeline it seems like just I'm assuming it is moving in and out of there because you had fewer projects I think with higher cost.
I mean do you have any sort of summary of what happened in the quarter I mean deliveries that kind of thing? Sure Sumit can handle that that fluctuates it's a little higher and we have just under 92 million under development right now.
And we have funded it at this point about 25 million of that.
Yes that's exactly right John.
You have got 65 million of unfunded obligations.
Most of the developments that you're seeing Rich is with our FedEx expansions.
That continues to be a higher yielding investment for us and those are investments that it allows us to continue to push out the leases beyond the original exploration when we do an investment for them.
Along with FedEx we're also ding investments in AMCs that continues to be a good investment and we do have some build to suit on the retail side that I do not wish to disclose the name at this point but those continue to be a higher yielding form of our investment opportunity set.
Okay and so each quarter Sumit what do you think you’d add roughly to the pipeline? Each quarter our run rate has been right around this 90 million unit it has fluctuated from anywhere between 70 units it's been as high as 110.
So about 90 million seems to be rightly would like to be a bit more given the size of the company I think you've heard John mention that we would like to see it go as high as 250 but we've not been able to achieve that so the run rate historically has been right around what you see it today.
We will go next to Collin Mings with Raymond James.
I guess my first question just as far as the mix of industrial going forward I know obviously few large deals impacted the mix here in the second quarter but can you just talk about in the deal pipeline as you are looking at the more industrial deals and has there been any shift to how you think about the investment great mix historically pretty high on the industrial front so just put just more color on that if you could? Yes we're really reacting Collin to the opportunities we see in the marketplace.
So we have very high retail numbers year-to-date and for the quarter and we continue to see attractive industrial opportunities but some of those opportunities are very aggressively priced today and we've elected to pass on them.
So it's hard to predict the future but we will continue to be active on the industrial front and look at the opportunities that our investment parameters and are priced appropriately for us.
And we will certainly continue to look at those investment grade and non-investment grade retail investments as we've done.
Okay and then I guess kind of switching gears just as far as I'm casual dining I am just curious here about I mean you guys have brought exposure down I think it was north of 10% a few years ago now down to about 4% can you just remind us how you are thinking about that sector particularly just in context of going out there looking to sell assets at a 55 cap? Yes I mean we continue to look at the QSR and casual dining sector they each separately represent 4% of our revenues and we've always been cautious on casual dining as you know as you alluded to.
For our casual dining investment for us we want to see an operating concept that has positive trends we want to see really healthy coverage coverage beyond what we seen in our overall portfolio probably three times or greater.
We want to see rents that are approximately at market and we want to be add approximately replacement cost on our investments.
So we have a high hurdle there we have looked at some casual dining investment opportunities and we continue to do that.
We haven't seen any on a large scale portfolio basis that meet our parameters for I'd say quality and pricing but we would certainly consider the right type of casual dining transaction.
Okay.
Now that's helpful color.
Then just real quickly can you give us any what the watch list is as a percent of revenue I don't know if I missed that and has there been any shift on that front? Yes it's still at 1.2% which represents about 150 million in properties and what I have said earlier was on the dispositions front if anything I mean we had budgeted for 50 million in dispositions if anything that could check up a bit and we may sell a little more and that is obviously coming from that watch list so we prepare it down just a shade but it's been kind of steady right around 1.2% for the last several quarters.
We'll go next to Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Hi guys it's been a long call but I've got two questions for you the first is on your re-leasing spreads or I guess more specifically the spreads when you re-leased to a new tenant.
If I think back 10-15 years ago to the Realty Income I grew up with there was a lot of talk about making sure that the rents on acquired properties on the portfolio were around market and that was one of the considerations for acquisitions.
So I guess it's a little disappointing to see these properties getting re-leased at down 30% to 35% what exactly is going on with -- it's not a completely insignificant number of properties that it's such a dramatic roll down in rent? So if you are looking at the year-to-date I guess that's in our supplement as where you're getting that information on Page 24 for everyone re-leasing to new tenants with and without vacancy you're seeing a 30% low down in rents.
The issue there is simply those are -- that's the market I mean we're also disappointed that it's not higher overall our re-leasing spreads are positive at a -- just under 103%.
We've executed more than 1 900 lease rollovers in the Company's history and have a lot of experience at this the majority of the assets that we do re-lease are re-leased at a positive spread and year-to-date 105% of expiring rents to the same tenant.
Where -- maybe the follow-up is if I looked at the entire portfolio today do you have a sense of what the market-to-market is on the entire portfolio? With regards with rents? Yes.
Yes I mean there you can see it that we're roughly at market rents it's slightly on the entire portfolio just slightly above.
So there's not a very big differencial between our contractual rents and market rents.
Second question I had is on the Walgreens acquisition I know there's not too much you can say but if I extrapolate based on the cap rate of the Life Time Fitness deal and the average cap rate which you bought properties it would suggest that the Walgreens pricing was close to 6 or could it have been below I guess my question would be why does it makes sense at this point in the cycle when the private market -- the 1031 market is going bananas.
Why pay up for the creme de la creme corner Walgreens location -- why is that the transaction that makes sense versus perhaps stepping a little further down the credit curve or just passing on that opportunity completely? Yes well that was a well structured transaction for us and I can't go into details on it but it looks certainly more favourable than what you see in the 1031 market.
And that's an industry and a tenant that we like a lot you've heard us discuss quite a bit given what's happening in the healthcare industry and with our ageing population and the performance of that company.
So it was an attractive investment and I would say this we don't do large institutional sale lease back transactions without rental rate growth.
[Multiple speakers] In the private market 1031market it's back as you alluded to and we're seeing quite pricing there at the 5% area.
We've even seen some four handles there so there is a certainly premium for the one offs that don't necessarily exist for the larger portfolios and then certainly a relationship element to our business with them as well.
We will go next to Chris Lucas with Capital One Securities.
John just a follow-up question on the comments you just about sort of the intensity or the competitiveness of the 1031 market just wondering does it make sense to sort of start ramping up your disposition program to take advantage of some of that arbitrage? What we are seeing now is we have been in a period for a while where there has been a portfolio premium where people were teaming to get more capital out the door.
That pricing has not become less expensive what's happened is the banks have returned to the market for the one off and the smaller portfolios and are lending quite aggressively.
So you’ve seen that 1031 market pricing surge and they are fairly equivalent across the board there is very few opportunities as the one that I just described where the arb there is more significant.
But we don’t want to sell properties and we don’t want to own long-term and so we're not seeing enough of an arb yet to crank crest back up.
But it's something we look at every quarter so that’s a good question.
And then just for you or for Paul just sitting where we are today with the capital market conditions as they are.
If you had to make a decision about raising equity a bit more long-term unsecured debt which -- would you have a preference for either under the current conditions? We'd be comfortable with either given the strength of the balance sheet and the pricing of both yes we’d be comfortable with either right now.
And then maybe a little more detailed question on the term facility Paul is there flexibility or ease that the capital markets present every opportunity to easily prepay that and replace it with some more permanent capital? Yes it is fully pre payable without penalty at any time.
That concludes the question-and-answer portion of Realty Income’s conference call.
I will now turn the call over to John Case for concluding remarks.
Thanks Ricky and thanks everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you this fall at the various conferences and we hope everyone has a great end to their summer.
Thanks again.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Realty Income 3Q 2015 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Janeen Bedard.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income third quarter 2015 operating results conference call.
Discussing our results will be John Case Chief Executive Officer; Paul Meurer Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Sumit Roy Chief Operating Officer and Chief Investment Officer.
During this conference call we will make certain statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
The Company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.
We will disclose in greater detail the factors that may cause such differences in the Company's Form 10-Q.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Case.
Thanks Janeen and welcome to our call today.
We are pleased with another solid quarter and our position as we move in to the end of the year and the beginning of 2016.
Our AFFO per share annual growth during the quarter was 9.4% and a record quarterly amount of $0.70.
As announced in yesterday's press release we are raising and tightening the range of our AFFO per share guidance for 2015 from $2.69 to $2.73 to the new range of $2.72 to $2.74 given the company strong year-to-date performance and continued scalability of our business platform.
A very high percentage of our revenue continues to flow bottom line.
We are also introducing our 2016 AFFO per share guidance of $2.85 to $2.90 representing annual per share growth of 4.4% to 6.2%.
I will now hand it over to Paul to provide additional detail on our financial results.
Thanks John.
As usual I’ll provide a few highlights of our financial statements for the quarter and began with the income statement.
Total revenue increased 9.8% for the quarter; this increase reflects our growth primarily from new acquisitions over the past year as well as same-store rent growth.
Our annualized rental revenue at September 30 was approximately $992 million.
Interest expense increased in the quarter to $64 million.
This increase was due to the $250 million 12-year notes we issued in September of last year and $250 million term loan issued at the end of last quarter.
As well as the lower amortization of mortgage premiums as our outstanding mortgage balance continues to decline.
We also did recognize a non-cash loss of approximately $5.2 million on interest rate swaps during the quarter.
As a remainder we enter into an interest rate swap on the new term loan we issued in June with led to the larger non-cash loss this quarter.
On a related note our coverage ratios both remained strong with interest coverage at 4.2 times and fixed charge coverage at 3.8 times.
Both of these metrics are pro forma for the paydown of the credit facility balance with proceeds from our common stock offering earlier this month.
General and administrative or G&amp;A expenses were approximately $10.9 million for the quarter.
Included in G&amp;A expense this quarter is approximately $70 000 in acquisition costs.
And reminder that we include these acquisition costs in our calculation to both FFO and AFFO.
Year-to-date our G&amp;A as a percentage of total rental and other revenues is only 5.3%.
We estimate this 5% will remain our approximate one rate for G&amp;A for the remainder of the year.
As efficiencies in our business model continue to drive improving EBITDA margins.
Property expenses which were not reimbursed by tenants totaled $3.4 million for the quarter.
Year-to-date our property expenses as a percentage of total rental and other revenues is only 1.5%.
We estimate this 1.5% will remain our approximate one rate the property expenses for the remainder of the year.
As these expenses have continue to come in lower this year with lower portfolio vacancy faster releasing of vacant properties lower property insurance premiums and fewer one-time maintenance expenses.
Provisions for impairment of approximately $3.9 million during the quarter including impairments on one property held for sale one held for investment and two sold properties.
Gain on sales were approximately $6.2 million in the quarter and just a reminder we do not include property sales gains in our FFO or AFFO.
Adjusted Funds from Operations or AFFO or the actual cash we have available for distribution as dividends was $0.70 per share for the quarter a 9.4% increase versus a year ago.
We again increased our cash monthly dividend this quarter and now it equates to a current annualized amount of $2.286 per share.
Briefly turning to the balance sheet we’ve continued to maintain our conservative capital structure.
In September we established an ATM or at-the-market equity distribution program to offer and sell up to 12 million shares giving us the ability to issue equity capital on an opportunistic basis.
Through quarter-end we had not yet issued any equity through this program.
During the quarter we did raise $152 million of equity capital through our direct stock purchase plan.
And earlier this month we raised $517 million in net proceeds in a common stock offering we used the proceeds to pay down all outstanding borrowing on our $2 billion unsecured revolving credit facility.
Our bonds which are all unsecured and fixed rates and continued to be rated BAA1 BBB+ at a weighted average maturity of 6.5 years.
We again did not assume any mortgages during the quarter.
We did pay off some at maturity so our outstanding net mortgage debt at quarter and decreased to approximately to $695 million.
Not including our credit facility the only variable rate debt exposure we have is on just $15.5 million of mortgage debt.
And our overall debt maturity schedule remains in very good shape with only $2 million of mortgages and $150 million of bonds coming due for the balance of this year and our maturity schedule is well laddered thereafter.
Currently our debt to total market capitalization is approximately 28% and our preferred stock outstanding is only 2% of our capital structure.
And our debt to EBITDA ratio after the equity offering is approximately 5.1 times.
Now let me turn the call back over to John who will give you more background on these results.
Thanks Paul.
I’ll begin with an overview of the portfolio which continues to perform well.
Occupancy based on the number of properties was 98.3% a 10 basis points improvement from last quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had 74 properties available for lease out of 4 473 properties on our portfolio.
Economic occupancy was 99.3% and occupancy based on square footage was 99% increasing 10 basis points and 20 basis points respectively from last quarter.
We continue to see an active leasing environment and expect our occupancy to remain around current levels for the end of the year.
We had leases expire on 95 properties during the quarter and we re-leased 97 properties.
Additionally five vacant properties were sold during the quarter so our vacant property count decreased by seven properties relative to last quarter.
86 properties were re-leased to existing tenants and 11 were re-leased to new tenants we recaptured 99% of expiring rents without any spending on tenant improvements as it’s typical for us.
We have a lot of experience in the theory of our business.
Over the last 20 years we have re-leased or sold more than 2 000 properties with expired leases.
Our same-store rent increased to 1.1% during the quarter and 1.3% year-to-date we expect annual same-store rent growth to be approximately 1.3% this year and next year.
As many of you know the timing of our rent increases are irregular and will vary from quarter-to-quarter.
90% of our leases have contractual rent increases.
So we remain pleased with the growth we are able to achieve from our properties approximately 75% of our investment grade releases have been only growth that averages about 1.3%.
Our portfolio continues to be diversified by tenant industry geography and to a certain extent property type.
At the end of the third quarter our properties were leased to 236 commercial tenants operating in 47 different industries located in 49 states and Puerto Rico.
Our diversification contributes to the stability of our cash flow 79% of our rental revenue is from our traditional retail properties.
The largest component outside of retail is industrial properties at 13% of rental revenue.
That was really not much movement in the composition of our top tenants in industries during the third quarter.
Walgreens remains our largest tenant at 7% of rental revenue and drug stores remain our largest industry at 11% of rental revenues.
We continue to have excellent credit quality in the portfolio with 44% of our rental revenue generated from investment grade-rated tenants.
This drops from 48% last quarter due to the completion of Dollar Trees acquisition or Family Dollar in July which is now rated BB.
This percentage will continue to fluctuate and will be positively impacted by two pending acquisitions of our non-investment grade-rated tenants by investment grade-rated tenants.
The store level performance of our retail tenants remain sound our weighted average rent coverage ratio for the retail properties continues to be 2.6 times on a four wall basis and the median is also 2.6 times.
Moving on to acquisitions during the quarter we completed $124 million in acquisitions and we continue to see a high volume of sourced acquisition opportunities.
Year to date we had sourced $24 billion in acquisition opportunities and we are on track for our second most active year ever for sourced volume.
We remain disciplined in our investment strategy acquiring less than 5% or $1.1 billion of the amount sourced year-to-date.
A large portion of the acquisitions completed so for this year occurred earlier than we had originally expected which had a positive impact on our 2015 earnings growth.
We continue to expect approximately $1.25 billion in acquisitions volume for 2015.
Our initial guidance for 2016 acquisitions is approximately $750 million which possibly reflects our typical flow business and does not account for any large-scale transactions.
I’ll hand it over to Sumit to discuss our acquisitions and dispositions.
Sumit? Thank you John.
During the third quarter of 2015 we invested $124 million in 47 properties located in 22 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 7% and with a weighted average lease term of 10.9 years.
On a revenue basis 35% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants.
52% of the revenues are generated from retail and 48% are from industrial.
These assets are leased to 18 different tenants in 13 industries; some of the most significant industry is represented transportation services motor vehicle dealerships and quick service restaurants.
We closed 10 independent transactions in the third quarter and the average investment for property was approximately $2.6 million.
Year-to-date 2015 we invested $1.1 billion in 195 properties located in 36 states at an average initial cash cap rate of 6.5% and with the weighted average lease term of 16.7 years.
On a revenue basis 50% of total acquisitions are from investment grade tenants.
87% of the revenues are generated from retail and 13% are from industrial.
These assets are leased to 35 different tenants in 18 industries.
Some of the most significant industries represented our health and fitness drugstores and quick service restaurants.
Also 35 independent transactions closed year-to-date three transactions were about $50 million.
The transactions will continues to remain healthy we sourced more than $4 billion in the third quarter year-to-date we’ve sourced more than $24 billion in potential transaction opportunities.
Of these opportunities 62% of the volumes sourced were portfolios and 38% or approximately $9 billion were one-off assets.
Investment grade opportunities represented 36% for the third quarter.
Of the $124 million in acquisitions closed in the third quarter 77% were one-off transactions.
We continued to capitalize on our extensive industry relationships developed over 46-year operating history.
As to pricing cap rates remain flat in the third quarter with investment grade properties trading from around 5% to high 6% cap rate range and non-investment grade properties trading from high 5% to low 8% cap rate range.
Our disposition program remained active.
During the quarter we sold eight properties for $21.5 million at a net cash cap rate of 7.2% and realized an unlevered IRR of 14.2%.
This brings us to 22 properties sold year-to-date for approximately 52 million at a net cash cap rate of 7.6% and realized an unlevered IRR of 13%.
Our investments spreads relative to our weighted average cost of capital were healthy averaging 212 basis points in the third quarter which were above our historical average spreads.
We define investment spreads as initial cash yield less the nominal first year weighted average cost of capital.
In conclusion the remain confident of reaching our acquisition and disposition goals of approximately 1.25 billion and 65 million respectively for 2015.
With that I'd like to hand it back to John.
Thanks Sumit.
We’ve been active on the capital markets during the year to need our capital needs.
Year-to-date we have raised approximately 1.2 billion in equity capital at an average per share price of approximately $48.50.
This includes the $517 million equity offering earlier this month at Paul mentioned.
Our balance sheet is an excellent shape with plenty of liquidity and financial flexibility.
Our sector leading cost of capital continues to allow us to drive earnings growth while investing in high-quality assets.
We increase the dividends paid this quarter by 4% on a year-over-year basis.
We’ve increased out dividend every year since the company’s listing 1994 growing the dividend at a compound average annual rate of just under 5%.
Our AFFO payout ratio in the third quarter was 81.4% which is a level we are quite comfortable with.
The rapid our portfolios performing well and we are pleased with where we stand as we ahead into the end of the year and into 2016.
We continue to realize the efficiencies associated with our size in the economies of scale of our net lease business.
We believe our EBITDA margin is the highest in the sector at 93%.
We continue to see high volume of acquisition opportunities and our balance sheet is an outstanding condition of exceptional financial flexibility to fund future growth opportunities.
At this time we would like to open it up for question.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Juan Sanabria with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Just with your 2015 guidance what factors are driving the still relatively large delta as we approach the end of the year and apply for the fourth quarter? I was wondering if you can give us a sense for what you expect dollar-wise for a percent in the fourth quarter? So the large Delta with regard to FFO is a result of swap and the impact that has on FFO and we don’t see that one in AFFO.
So it is very difficult to predict forward curve.
So you see that it did have a $4 million impact this year it could go down from there so you wanted to make sure we love to range bought out the handle what we though would be reasonable in terms of movement there.
And then any color on percent rent for the fourth quarter? Any expectations you're thinking about? Over the trailing 12 months we’ve received around 4 million in percentage rent larger quarters are post quarter typically fourth quarter won't have a large percentage rent we are not expecting the fourth quarter to have a large percentage rent figure in it.
So but again those are irregular and we can give surprise as we were in the second quarter with regard of percentage rents.
So go ahead.
Just one more quick question on guidance.
For 2016 the AFFO is actually higher than FFO.
Is that related to swaps again? Because normally it's the inverse at least if you look at 2015? Yes Juan it is related to that and Paul do you elaborate on that? Yes so one piece of that is the swaps and making some assumptions to account for potential non-cash gain or loss there.
The other issue is less mortgage premium amortization because our mortgage balance has gone down significantly as you can see over time.
And then the third piece would be a little bit less capital expenditures spend that we projected for next year Great.
A last more bigger picture question.
With the Walgreens-Rite Aid merger any thoughts on potential store closures given overlaps that may be required as per the FTC and competition? And then do you expect the management team to maybe look at any real estate monetizations? Let me take a crack at that one.
Obviously we view the merger as a net positive for the company we believe it's a credit and value enhancing event Realty Income is likely to improve the credit quality or definitely will improve the credit quality of the portfolio with an additional 1.8% at least of our rent becoming investment grade rated.
S&amp;P affirmed the BBB rating yesterday but did put Walgreens on negative outlook which is normal in these M&amp;A situations.
As you recall when we bought ARCT we were put on negative outlook while S&amp;P waits to see how you execute and finance the transaction.
There will be no impact on our revenue as a result of the impossible divestitures Walgreens will have the contractual obligation to pay the rent through the term.
The pundits in the market over the last two days have estimated that anywhere from zero to 400 stores could be closed so that's quite a range.
But on our Walgreens assets we have an average lease term of 13 years.
On our Rite Aid assets we have an average lease term of nine years.
And there’s really little property overlap and the two portfolios of the 58 Rite Aid locations we own 15 of those and within a two-mile radius of a Walgreens store and the average lease term is about eight years.
So we feel really good about that and we’re pleased with both companies performance.
We’ll take our - depending on acquisitions between now and the end of next year it will take our exposure - percentage of revenues from Walgreens up to somewhere in the high eights probably right around 9%.
But if we are going to have a tenant that’s a little higher that we typically like the concentrations to be.
But if we’re going to have a tenant there we like that it’s Walgreens.
And from a drugstore industry perspective there will be no change and our exposure will still be at around 11%.
Okay thank you very much John.
Okay thanks Juan.
I appreciate it.
And we’ll go next to Collin Mings with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Hey how are you doing Collin? First question for me looks like that the industrial mix picked up a bit during the quarter obviously relatively low acquisition volume compared to the last few quarters.
Can you talk a little bit more about that? It looked like the FedEx exposure ticked up a little bit.
Yes so as you know the acquisitions compositions and amounts vary quite a bit quarter- to-quarter.
This quarter we had 52% retail and 48% industrial and there was a FedEx in there.
So we did check on some additional revenues from FedEx.
It's going to fluctuate in the second quarter we had well in excess of 700 million in acquisition and we had quarters where they’ve been close to zero and quarters where they’ve exceeded billion dollars.
It’s certainly volatile.
But there's really nothing to read into that when we look at what we’ve done year-to-date 87% has been the retail and we continue to have 79% of our revenues come from retail property.
So you are not going to see that number change much.
So it's better than average and it’s just relevant here in the third quarter.
Okay.
And then I guess you touched on this in those remarks but given the deceleration in the pipeline again obviously some larger deals in the second quarter.
You still feel pretty good about where your pipeline stands right now and not really any meaningful change in the composition of it? Is that fair? Yes that’s very fair.
We are going to have our third best year ever in terms of consolidated acquisitions.
We are going to have our second best year ever in term of sourced acquisition opportunities.
So there is a lot of momentum in the business and I wouldn't characterize this declining momentum might characterize the typical fluctuations quarter-to-quarter and acquisition volume.
So again it's very difficult to predict but we are certainly comfortable with where the business is and the momentum we have.
Okay and then as far as just on the ATM recognizing it is going to fluctuate depending upon where the stock price is but what should we think about and how aggressive you might be looking to deal with that in any given quarter? Yes I mean we are probably be at 1% or less of our equity markets cap in a quarter it's not something we're going to used to replace offerings with that it allows us to matching on their acquisitions be more opportunistic with regard to raising equity and to fund that equity at a much much lower cost than we do a typical offering but we will continue to do offerings such as we did post third quarter end.
Okay that's helpful.
And then one last one for me and I'll turn it over.
Bigger picture any changes to the watch list? Or anything else we should be aware of on that front? I know the last couple quarters you've referenced it being pretty stable.
Just touch on that real quick.
Yes it’s pretty stable at 1.1% and not everything on there we’ll end up selling so we are as you heard slipping inside ramping up our dispositions a bit on what we had originally planned for this year from $50 million to $65 million.
We are achieving excellent results on our sales and these are – some of them have issues associated with them perhaps credit real estate issues coverage issues industry issues and some we are just selling because we have maybe some concentration issues and you don’t want to reduce our concentration levels but the fact that we are able to sell these year-to-date at a 77 cap rate 72 cap rate in the third quarter and achieved an IRR unlevered 14%.
I think kind of shows you the quality of our portfolio because we are calling off kind of the lower quality assets in general.
So I hope that shows the market that we will get a strong portfolio if that's where those properties we want to dispose of the trading.
Okay.
On that point as you referenced that cap rate is it safe to say as you think about the 2016 guidance that you threw out there that the dispositions that you look to complete in 2016 would likely be at a similar cap rate to what you've done here in 2015? I would think so I mean we budget something little bit more conservative in the high seven and close to 8% but again it’s going to be a function of the macroeconomic environment and which is more than enough.
We are able to – where interest rates in the macroeconomic environment will be next year.
But I think overall yes I think it’s safe to say we’ll continue to execute the levels we executed at this year.
Great appreciate the detail.
Okay thanks a lot.
And we will go next to Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Thanks.
The $750 million of acquisitions in 2016 what investment spread is assumed in guidance? Yes we are looking at cap rates that are probably right around what we are achieving now so they are consistent with – we are assuming there are no material changes in cap rates today.
So assume those sort of high sixes area in terms of spreads Paul you want to hit on that in terms of cost of capital.
I think we will continued to be in the area north of our long-term average of 150 basis points or 140 basis points will be in the upper 100s maybe up to 175 basis points.
Thanks and then just going back the mix between retail and industrial in terms of the acquisitions.
Do you expect a similar mix to this year.
Overall I think that safe to say again we see for more opportunities on the retail side and retail oriented 79% et cetera earlier about revenues are coming from our retail properties and do not expect that the change materially next year.
And then finally can you touch on the initial cash cap rate difference between what you've seen for retail acquisitions and industrial acquisitions this year? Sumit do you want to handle that? Yes sure that’s a very difficult question to answer because it definitely depends on the tenant on the length of the leads on what kind of especially on the retail side on what kind of an asset it is but if you what think in terms of an investment grade tenant with 15-year 20-year lease with growth they trade right around where in the same ZIP Code and it is very difficult to say that one asset class trade that higher price.
Now when you obviously translated on a price per square feet basis et cetera industrial we are looking at high quality industrial assets right around that $70 $75 per square feet ZIP Code and in retail once again depending on whether it’s a Walgreen’s or whether it’s a similar investment grade rated lets called Dollar General they are going to have a different range anywhere between 175 to 225 to 250.
Thanks that’s helpful.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
For Sumit for the properties acquired in the quarter can you give us the range what the lease terms were? The average was 10 years so that's in line with your existing portfolio but to look at anything on the shorter side? Yes look I think we did have some in the high single-digits and a lot of them bunched around that area from the high single-digits around 13 14 there were a couple of assets that had not 15-year lease that’s part of the reason why we were able to get a slightly better yield.
You’ll see sometimes in smaller portfolios you might have an average lease yield – an average lease term Todd 12-years but we are going to have some maybe seven eight years and there certainly in larger portfolios as well.
So we target 10-years and above its typically the natural lease terms range from 10 to 25 I think year-to-date but just under 17 years which is a good number for us.
And that continue to focus on that in the long-term range in area to be in.
That's helpful.
Was it just the one FedEx you acquired in the quarter? Yes that’s correct Okay.
Can you help us with pricing? As a comp what the cap rate was? Length of lease? And was this more of a FedEx ground facility? It was the FedEx ground that we are not allow to give an specific details on that transaction were subject to confidential reality agreement with FedEx with regard to this specifics and pricing.
Okay no problem.
For Paul when you look at your cost of equity certainly you have the overnight markets open to you.
You have the ATM in place although you haven't tapped it.
But the direct purchase plan you've raised a fair amount of equity this year through that.
Is there a low-cost like an ATM-equivalent cost to raising that amount of equity? Yes its actually our cheapest form of raising equity closer to 1% average cost there of issuance compare to an ATM with this going to be more like 1.5% to 2% and then your overnight offering there going to be more than that obviously.
So it is a product that will remain and utilizing with largely with existing shareholders as well as part of that their ability to reinvest.
But not to any significant amount.
As John mentioned we’ll be doing a little bit of that activity in quarter going forward.
But any larger equity raises would be dependent upon acquisition volume.
Great thanks.
Lastly when you look at the Rite Aid properties if you were to assign a Walgreens cap rate to those going forward do you guys look at it in terms of how much cap rate compression happened at one fell swoop? Yes I mean if you look at the market today there's about a 50 to 75 basis points differential between where Rite Aid and where Walgreens would trade.
So you’ve got yield of anywhere depending on other factors 50 to 75 basis points higher on a Rite Aid and you got a Walgreens.
So you expect that to condense based on Walgreens acquisition.
Great thanks John.
Thank you Todd.
And we’ll go next to Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Hello guys good morning or good afternoon.
Did you pull back at all on your acquisition activity due to the softness that we saw in both the debt and equity markets in the third quarter? No we didn’t I mean this is just a function of the opportunities we saw that met our investment parameters.
And there’s a lot of volatility from quarter-to-quarter and the amount and quality of acquisition opportunities we see.
So we are very pleased with where our own balance sheet is.
We got a lot of financial flexibility and significant liquidity.
So we did not specifically pull back on the acquisitions activity as a result of some of the volatility we saw on the marketplace.
Okay great thanks John.
I'm curious Paul on the bonds that you're doing or that you might do.
Are these going to get bigger do you think? I think of you guys having $5 billion of debt roughly that kind of thing and 10-year laddered maturity.
So I'm thinking of larger bond transactions when you do them.
The last couple seemed smaller and I'm wondering are you going to carry more on your line of credit? Or are you going to do a bigger bond transaction going forward you think? They may get bigger at times of course as we get larger as a company you could certainly see larger issuances certainly in the minimum of $250 million to be index eligible something we would always pursue.
But at point in time when you go to issue the bond it really depends on what your needs are at that particular time.
And if you don't have say $500 million cash needed at that moment you are not going to issue $500 million bonds that’s happened a few time.
And furthermore we haven't quite seen any pricing improvement having a slightly larger offering size.
If we would start to understand that you get a little bit better pricing from the debt investors for a larger liquid offering that something we made and pursue more.
Yes it’s been an interesting conversation we’ve had and certainly something we’ve studied Rich and that is do you get paid for larger more liquid offerings and certainly a lot of our fixed income investors would prefer those and say that you do.
But when you look at the case studies available and we work with our bankers you don't see a pricing advantage.
But that being said larger company as Paul said doing larger transactions.
I think you’ll see our average transactions certainly grow beyond $250 million.
And you could see some $0.5 billion bond deals in our future.
Okay is there a negative to going to market too often? Like if you had to do $1 billion and you did four one each quarter of $250 million is that a negative? If that was scenario for example I think the preference would be to do say two $500 million rather than four $250 as your fixed income investors would prefer the larger liquidity in each particular issuance but you can't always project what your needs are going to be in the state of the bond market the acquisition deal flow timing and that sort of thing of course.
Okay gotcha.
And then I wanted to ask you guys too about development if I could.
I'm trying to figure out exactly -- when I look at the supplemental -- exactly what's happening with development.
If I was on page 13 you have investment in 18 development properties in the quarter.
Then when you look on page 15 you have 11 properties currently underway.
So I'm assuming seven were delivered in the quarter? Is that correct? That’s correct.
Okay and then as you look forward that remaining investment on page 15 the $58 million how should we think about the timeframe over which that's going to occur? On top of that how many more we might add on a quarterly basis new properties to the list? Yes so as of right now as it says on page 15 we’ve got $58 million of additional commitments to spend and based on the pipeline the next quarter we don't expect to add any new additional development so that number should remain pretty static of course we are going to stand off of that 50 and so you would expect that to go down.
In the event we do get back with some tenants et cetera with regards to redevelopment et cetera.
That’s the only reason why that $58 million will change.
All right so I should pro rata that $58 million over the next year? Or I guess it's through January so I guess through the next quarter or so.
I have the run rate today yes.
Okay.
All right good and thanks guys.
Thanks Rich.
And we’ll go next to Dan Donlan with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Hi Dan.
Hey.
I was wondering if you guys could touch a little bit on the operating expenses and why that continues to come in below your expectations.
Your recovery ratio seems to be fairly high relative to what it has been historically.
Yes with regard to – are you telling that with regard to G&amp;A or property or both.
Frankly both but just on the property operating expenses 1.5% that's a lot lower than what it has been historically.
Yes so really we realized probably $4 million to $5 million in savings due to fewer defaults this year and lower vacancy I think an improved stronger portfolio it’s reducing our property expense obligations that the company is responsible for.
We are also helping to drive that is much quicker resolution of lease rollovers improved our property insurance premiums as well to become a larger company with scale on.
On the G&amp;A front if you go back and kind of our headcount about three years ago we got some pretty significant additions and headcount and year after that they were fairly significant.
And we are really positioning the company to handle the growth that we had anticipated and it would continue.
Those hiring have fallen each year.
We’ve put really skilful people in place I think and having more efficient organizational structure and more efficient systems which allow us to have better G&amp;A margin.
So there are some other items related to that but that's what it's really about.
So when we budgeted this year we budgeted some headcount and did not end up having to add to the company which helped us come in at $2 million to $4 million below where we thought we were going to be on that item.
So that's what really is driving the property expenses and G&amp;A expense margins.
Okay so you're not handing out jelly of the month club end-of-year bonuses or anything like that I guess? That’s right.
So just kind of curious Paul on the leverage.
At 5.1 times on net debt to EBITDA looking at my numbers it seems to be the lowest you've been in quite some time.
Is there any type of concerted effort on your part or on the Company's part to maintain a lower level leverage than you have over the last couple of years? Or is it simply a function of timing? Its really a function of timing I am not Paul obviously but I want to talk about this sort of philosophy.
We are comfortable with the company two-third equity one-thirds debt right now we are closer to 70% 71% equity today little more conservatively capitalizing that saw an attractive opportunity to executed in overnight offering at pricing that would be attractive and highly accretive to our investments and we had a use for the proceeds and we want to precision the balance sheet and a very clean and look and ready to find our anticipated acquisitions going into 2016.
So this is not a level this is not a new level that really represents the change in leverage policy for us Dan just a average of the recent launch equity offering.
Okay understood.
Is there any type of -- is there any seasonality to 2016's acquisitions? Do you think they'll be more front-end loaded or more back-end loaded or ratably over the year? Which we could answer the question this year we thought there going to be more back end loaded giving a couple of larger portfolios we will working on and when those tenants want into close and then two changed and all suddenly we went from expecting back end loaded acquisition here that switch to front end loaded acquisition here.
Its really difficult to predict so in model right now we just add that 750 million based on a pro rate structure throughout the year.
It wont happen that happen that way.
There will be quarters where there’s big numbers and there will be quarters where there small numbers.
Unfortunately I'm not smart enough to tell you which quarters are going to be big and which quarter are going to be smaller.
Okay fair enough.
Then from a portfolio standpoint has the private letter ruling that's gone away the IRS or FCC or whoever it is has said they're going to stay away from this stuff this op-gov prop-co type of structure that people have done.
Have you seen any increase in inbound calls to you guys because of this change in policy from the government? Yes we continue to be involved in a number of conversations on that front.
We did interpret that as a net positive.
Because if you are going to monetize real estate the IRS has taken that stance then you sale-leaseback financing transactions with companies like ours is the appropriate and best execution we believe.
Has there been a sea wave of additional discussions? No but there is been a slight uptick and we continue to be fairly optimistic that one or two of those will hit and be significant Okay thank you very much appreciate it.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll go next to Chris Lucas with Capital One Securities.
Good afternoon guys.
John following up on a couple of the last questions on the philosophy side I guess I was wondering if you might be able to remind us what your thoughts are in terms of max category exposure that you would be willing to take and max single tenant exposure that you guys would take? Sure Chris.
So what we’ve said single tenant is that we’re comfortable in the mid single-digit range so call that count of up to 7% under certain circumstances we would be comfortable going above that but over the long run we would like to manage that exposure back down because the diversification is highly important to us on our strategy.
So you’ll see that we kind of assuming that the Walgreens-Rite Aid transaction closes we’ll have a tenant that’s in the upper eights in terms of percentage of revenues.
So that will be a tenant that we look very very closely at it in terms of increasing our exposure in fact we would not want to increase that exposure unless there was just something exceptional in terms of an incredibly attractive investment opportunity and then we have discussions with our team here and with our board to see if we even wanted to do that.
On the industry side it's always been kind of in the lower double digits sort of 10% to 12% range and we want to remain in that area and right now we are in that area but the diversification is something that we think is important in our type of business.
Okay and then you talked a little bit before about the spread differential between the Walgreens and the Rite Aid leases.
Other than credit and obviously lease term length but are there lease items that are also included in that price differential? When you say lease items.
Go ahead sorry.
Yes there is more growth in the Rite Aid leases and there is the Walgreens leases.
So I don’t know that's what you were asking about or not but there are some minor differences in terms of the two types of leases but not major.
Okay.
Then going back to Dan's question about the private letter ruling arena have you guys looked at the infrastructure business at all as an opportunity that Realty Income might look at? We are seeing so many opportunities and the investments that fall with our investment parameters today that's not something we are really looking at.
We do have a group and team here that we're constantly looking at what other alternatives in terms of properties may makes sense for us to pursue but we are really comfortable with where we are right now and we certainly don't have any plans to go into the infrastructure business.
Okay and then last question probably for Paul.
On the EBITDA or coverage ratio can you give us a sense of what percentage revenue is actually included in that calc? What percentage of revenue is actually… Yes I'm assuming it's not 100% of the revenue that you're collecting right? It's some proportion of the tenants that report that information to you? Well I’m sorry.
Yes I thought you are talking about debt to EBITDA ratio percentage.
Yes so we get that information from kind of the majority of our retailers.
That’s just under 70%.
70%.
Yes and so that’s where that’s coming from so it’s not 100% and it’s around 70%.
Great thank you guys.
Thank you.
End of Q&amp;A And ladies and gentlemen that does concludes the question-and-answer portion of Realty Income’s conference call.
I’d now like to turn the call back over to John Case for concluding remarks.
Thanks Aaron.
We appreciate everyone joining today and look forward to seeing most of you in a few weeks at NAREIT.
Have a good afternoon and thanks again.
Take care.
And this does conclude today’s conference everyone.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
And we will go next to Vikram Malhotra of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Just following up on that the M&amp;A question just trying to understand obviously you have the cost of capital if were to just sort of prioritize what do you do with this cost of capital from here? If we look past at least historically you've created obviously premiums to the broader REIT group but that premium has not remained there for a considerable amount of time so it seems like there's a window and I'm just trying to understand what if you were to prioritize what you do with it? If you could walk us through that it would be helpful.
Yes well we have typically traded at a premium to the sector.
The premium widens during periods of market volatility and uncertainty like we're seeing today.
But for the vast majority of our history we've traded at the highest multiple in the sector.
As we look at what we may do with the capital advantages from a cost perspective that we have today we're really -- we want to say consistent with our investment strategies.
So on the retail front it's looking for service oriented non-discretionary low price point businesses that have good real estate and rents that makes sense structures that makes sense.
So we think those assets and property types and tenants are better equipped to work through a variety of economic cycles and to compete with e-commerce.
And then on the investor side it's high-quality real estate leased to Fortune 1000 companies with investment grade credit ratings so those are as the buckets we're really focused on.
What we don't want to do is go out and wantonly use a lot of capital to buy properties that aren't consistent with the assets that have worked for the Company over the long-term.
So we don't feel pressured to buy inferior assets at times where a multiple advantage is very significant.
Okay and then just if you were say hypothetically there were two portfolios of public portfolio a public Company and a larger private portfolio somewhat similar return price files similar properties.
How do you think about those two are there factors that dry you towards one or the other at this point and would you be considering either of them even if sort of your leverage ticks up they are not leverage neutral? Well we love to do transactions on a leverage neutral basis and that's what we've done in the past.
Whether it be on the private side or be entity level side.
So really what's going to drive which opportunities we pursue is going to be opportunities that result in the most value for the shareholders of our Company.
That's how we're going to look at it.
We have shown in the past that we can execute public transactions entity level transactions or large portfolio transactions.
And we do have some leverage capacity today.
As you heard that at our lowest leverage levels in the last ten years so we have taken advantage of the capital markets to really strengthen and solidify the balance sheet.
So we're very well positioned to grow today where we could take on a bit more leverage than we have today.
Our long-term target has been two thirds equity one third debt.
As you know we're inside of that today.
John to those comments obviously attractive cost of equity here but how do you think or Paul how do you think about your cost of debt here? How has it changed over the past couple months? Do you have any visibility where you could issue long-term debt today? Ten years -- This is John here.
Ten year debt is in the low 4s 4.10% 4.20%.
Spreads have capped out as rates have declined so there hasn't been a big pickup there Paul anything? The bandwidth all in has really stayed in the 4% to 4.2% range in spite of wherever the Treasury or spreads have moved.
Okay in terms of acquisitions this year has the spread between investment grade and below investment grade shifted at all given the macro volatility? Or would you say that it is still on a risk adjusted basis more attractive to be going after the investment-grade tenants? Well I mean we're going to continue -- the spreads really haven't changed the relationship of those spreads.
We'll pursue opportunities in both sectors the ones that meet our investment parameters and make the most sense for us.
On the investment-grade side you're seeing some fairly aggressive pricing as Sumit alluded to earlier around the 5% area on the really higher-quality product.
The non-investment grade you're still seeing right around 6% on the higher-quality product.
That's not much different than where we were at the end of last year.
Cap rates have remained stable but the ranges on investment-grade go up to as high as the high six's and on non-investment grade they go up to as high as 8%.
The spreads are better today from an investment standpoint given our cost of capital.
So for the year last year we had investment spreads of 185 basis points on about the $1.3 billion that we acquired.
In the fourth quarter that was more like 236 basis points on the $204 million we acquired.
Today they're running in excess of 250 basis points.
So the margins have never been better than they are now on the acquisitions front.
So we'll be more driven by the opportunities in both the non-investment grade and investment-grade sectors and we'll react to those versus having sort of a fixed percentage of what we want to buy each.
That's consistent with how we've always done it.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
So just for those tenants that provide unit level financials is there anything in those results that suggest a change in economic activity or are there geographies that are doing better than others or anything like that? No and we are constantly looking at that.
The tenant base is in excellent shape.
There's some non-material issues as there always are that are factored into our guidance.
And so right now we feel good about the tenant base and their health and condition.
Sure.
And then as it pertains to acquisitions are there any industries that you are looking to invest in or not invest in? And then has there been any change in sort of the buyer or seller pools? No significant changes on the buyer seller pool and the industries are consistent with the ones that we're in.
So if you look at the 47 industries we are in today with very few exceptions they're going to align with in those industries.
We want to stay away from discretionary industries and businesses.
It looks like in the fourth quarter according to the supplemental that you guys bought 10 Rite-Aids.
Are those basically straight down the middle sort of normal ten year plus leases or have you guys started to look more opportunistically at some of the Rite Aid locations or even Walgreens locations that have five years or less in it to possibly to do a re-tenanting? That was a sale leaseback transaction we did directly with Rite Aid who is an existing tenant of ours and it was done before the Walgreens announcement so it worked out very well for us.
So those weren't one off transactions.
It was just a fortuitous timing I would say in terms of when the transaction was executed.
Is there the capability to do anything on an opportunistic basis with short-term lease Rite Aids or even Walgreens where the current owner might be across the Street from something else from one or the other locations might getting worried that they are going to close down on the location where you guys can buy it at an attractive rate and repurpose it to some other tenant? If that winds up… That is not a big emphasis of our business.
We pay attention to those opportunities but we are really looking for assets with long lease terms that are well positioned competitively and we're not going to have any sort of near-term issues for.
If we saw something incredibly compelling we would certainly take a look at it where we had a kind of tenant in our back pocket and we knew we were going to sign a 20 year lease on favourable terms on a building that was going to become vacant or vacant we would certainly look at that.
We've done that in the past.
Is not a major component of our business but we have done that in the past.
And will go next to Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Hey John good afternoon.
Hey Ross.
It sounds like from some of your earlier comments regarding acquisitions and in particular M&amp;A it sounds like you are more open to M&amp;A today than you have been in the recent past.
Do you think that's a fair characterization? I would say given the multiple advantage we have relative to the other 13 14 companies in the sector that it's a bit more interesting today.
But at the same time I would say that we want to end up with assets that are consistent with our investment philosophy.
So we're not signaling that we go out there just to do a large transaction take on assets that we couldn't we'd consider to be of risk in the intermediate to long-term.
Okay.
And you and I have talked about this topic before but how do you think about net asset value or property value versus investment spread? So even if you theoretically could buy another public player at a multiple that would be accreted to your FFO what if that meant paying a reasonably high I don't know what the right word is premium to the actual value of the assets when you know you can go into the private market all day long and pay actual NAV or property value? How do you balance that thinking? We want to be paying NAV whether we're buying in the private market or whether we're buying in the public market.
There would have to be something incredibly compelling about the opportunity strategically for us to do that but we're focused both on spreads and accretion as well as the value of the assets.
So we would not want to do anything that would be NAV dilutive.
And will go next to Amit Nihalani of Oppenheimer.
Hi good afternoon.
Can you guys comment on the difference in cap rates for industrial versus retail? Yes Sumit industrial versus retail? We haven't really seen much of a movement in cap rates for the type of industrial assets that we pursue which is Fortune 1000 clients with ten plus years.
In terms of the cost you're paying right around that $65 to $75 to $80 per square feet for brand new concrete tilt up type of buildings and that seems to still be the case today.
With retail as depending on the product type it ranges from anywhere between 150 to 250 square feet all the way up to 400 450 for a C store.
So and again with regards to pricing despite all the volatility that we're seeing in the market we have not seen cap rates move in one direction or the other.
They stayed fairly steady for both those products I'd say over the last six to nine months.
Got it and just bigger picture any changes to the watch list or anything else we should be aware of on that front? No.
The watch list is down to 1% of revenues which is the lowest it's been in the last five years.
Again the portfolio is in good health.
There are no material issues for us.
Hello guys.
Just a quick question for me.
What do you see as being the right size for realty income in terms of assets? The right size? In terms of assets? I don't think there is necessarily a right size but we will continue to grow the Company consistent with our investments strategies and take advantage of the opportunities out there in what is a vast marketplace.
So we do not have a target in terms of size.
It's really more about delivering earnings growth and dividend growth and total shareholder return.
All right.
Sure.
In terms of do you think that there would be anything more attractive about just having $25 billion worth of assets instead of having call it $18 billion worth of assets? No.
I don't think so.
This is a very scalable business.
When you look at our EBITDA margin that's nearly 94% it's sector leading.
We're delivering more of our revenues to our shareholders than the rest of the sector.
Our G&amp;A margin of 5% very efficient.
With size and scale comes increased efficiencies which really lead to I think a competitive advantage based on size.
But we wouldn't grow just to grow we would grow to create earnings growth and dividend growth with assets consistent with our investment philosophy.
The deal flow you're seeing continues to be pretty steady and robust.
Can you provide what the mix is maybe just share what the percentages if you look at where the opportunities came from investment opportunities came from last year whether they are marketed details existing relationships or pension funds even bringing you opportunities? Sure.
So Sumit do you want to take that? Yes sure.
So Todd in terms of the portfolio and one-off mix I would say it's about 25% of what we sourced last year versus even in 2015 was about the same.
25% is one off 75% portfolio deals.
So when you start to focus then on the portfolio deals what we've started to notice is a lot more companies that were sort of hesitant in years past to even engage in conversations dealing with sale lease backs became far more open to those types of conversations and in fact some of them even resulted in transactions that we were involved in in last year.
Whereas in 2014 most of the product that we saw were from companies that were very familiar with the sale leaseback market and most of the volume driven were by either other sellers of large portfolios both private and public and/or companies that had done sale-leasebacks in the past.
So the only real change in terms of the product mix I would say that we saw was new entrants coming in that had not engaged in conversations in years past.
But outside of that one-off versus portfolio the mix is about the same.
It was 26% in 2014 and 25% in 2015.
So I'd say the mix is about the same.
Is it more compelling Sumit just because of pricing -- commercial real estate prices have been so good people are at least considering it now? I would say pricing is definitely one piece of it but I would also say that there has been a fair amount of external pressures by investors etcetera rattling the cages and talking about what is it that a particular operating company should focus on.
The debt markets have helped.
The fact that our cap rates have compressed have helped but I think the single biggest issue has always the single biggest driver in my mind has been some of the investors talking about monetizing real estate and getting back to the core business.
I think that has been the single biggest factor.
So Sumit are you sort of saying that -- and John that the -- remember when we had all these retailers that wanted to do spins spins of their real estate and that is sort of not happening now.
The government has kind of shut that down so is that group of potential sale-leaseback guys coming to? Are you seeing more of that those pre-spin guys that can't do the spins anymore? Yes I think that was actually favorable news to the net lease industry and companies like ours to the extent they want to monetize their real estate they're going to be talking to us.
I do think to add on to what Sumit was saying is that these companies that have large real estate holdings that are not real estate companies are under pressure to increase their own returns on investment and carrying that real estate when it could be sold to someone like us or someone in our sector can certainly enhance their return on investment so there is that pressure and we're seeing that.
The recent news with regard to the ability to do these spins is certainly a net positive to the sector.
Okay good thank you.
And then it's interesting because you guys probably don't sit and look at the stock market all day long like a bunch of us on the phone do but pretty much the only thing green on my screen is you guys.
That means the market is worried about something and I'm curious how you guys monitor for bankruptcies? I mean what's the chance among your tenant base that you can have a surprise in there and how close are you in touch do you think with the health of each of these retailers? So we have a -- as you know you've covered us for a long time as you know Rich we have our own internal credit and research team and we are constantly analyzing and scouring the portfolio in terms of credit and industry trends as well.
Currently our watch list is 1%.
Tenants that we have potential credit issues with are just under 6% of the entire portfolio but most of that doesn't make it on to the watchlist because it's really good real estate and we'd like to have it back and we think there's upside there.
So in terms of our coverages they've held steady right around 2.6 2.7 we're not anticipating any sort of a tenant -- material tenant the issues.
So we to track that very closely and don't see anything there.
Thank you good afternoon.
John given your comments on M&amp;A I think you said that public debt the REITs would have to have as that are consistent with your investment philosophy.
How many REITs out there do you think have such assets? Dan you are cutting out.
Sorry.
Can you hear me now better? Yes.
Sorry about that.
Given that you said that as you look at some public to public M&amp;A that another Company would have to have assets that are consistent with your investment philosophy.
I was just kind of curious how many REITs are out there that you think have assets that are consistent with your investment philosophy? There are a number of them.
Are there any that are completely pure? Maybe one or two but in terms of the REITs that have assets that are consistent with what we're looking for and have a material amount of them maybe they represent 50% or more.
There are a lot of companies out there.
I then just kind of curious on the casual dining front.
It's been a sector that you guys have steered clear of since the last recession was just kind of curious your appetite there.
Just going back to Rich's question given the inability of these REIT conversions to happen there's a lot of restaurants out there that that still own a lot of their own real estate so just kind of curious your thoughts there? Yes so right now casual dining for us is about 3.5% of our overall revenues and some of the stumbles the Company has made in the past have been related to casual dining.
And we've learned what we want on that front and so we have a fairly high bar in terms of what we would consider there.
We want operating concepts that are stable to growing.
We want box sizes that if we ever get them back are of the size that we can be more easily re-let.
We want market rents.
We want something close to replacement cost as well and we want coverages that are in excess of what our portfolio averages somewhere around three times.
So if we find those types of opportunities and of course the real estate needs to be attractive as well we'll pursue them.
So the fact that we've not done many of them is more a function of quality and structure of some of the transactions that have been done versus us saying we won't look at casual dining because we will look at casual dining.
But the parameters around what we will invest in our fairly tight.
First question for me you guys mentioned the watchlist remains low and hasn't really changed much.
But can you maybe just highlight what the themes are as you think about the planned dispositions for this year? And could we see some shift maybe towards some more occupied versus vacant properties? And then just as it relates to that issue going back to Rich's question could some of the dispositions be maybe in that pool of tenants that aren't necessarily on the watchlist but maybe in lower quality given some of the economic concerns other? Yes I mean on the dispositions front I think in terms of what would be selling it will look similar to what it looked like in 2015 maybe a bit more occupied than vacant.
We had more vacant than we typically have.
And the types of properties on the dispositions front are casual dining childcare older generation non-discretionary -- I'm sorry discretionary tenants in theory or real estate locations perhaps with credit issues.
Or they are higher quality properties but we're looking to reduce our exposure to certain tenant or to a certain sector.
So on the sales front I think you'll see a little more occupied then vacant in terms of the ratio and we're looking to sell 50 million to 75 million this year and that's incorporated into our guidance.
I guess along those lines just as far as how does your economic outlook maybe factor into that at all? I think last year there was some acceleration in your disposition activity.
Is there anything from a broader economic perspective that might again cause you to accelerate or want to jettison some more some of that exposure that you highlighted that you are relatively more concerned about? No again when you look at the size of the watch list and it's in your 1% it's fairly small.
So possibly we've had I think our most active year on the dispositions front was about $135 million and we've been as low as 50 million 60 million.
We're kind of thinking 50 million to 75 million but we remain the right to be flexible there.
We certainly did factor in macroeconomic conditions but it's really that then taken down to the micro level and does it make sense for the reasons I went through to sell an asset or not.
And this concludes the question and answer portion of Realty income's conference call.
I will now turn the call over to John Case for concluding remarks.
Okay thank you very much Cassandra.
Thanks everyone for joining us and we look forward to seeing you at the conferences coming up and everyone have a good afternoon.
Take care.
Bye.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!