Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shaquana and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn this presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Michael McMurray Vice President Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Shaquana.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the time to join us for today's conference call in review of our business results for the first quarter of 2011.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Duncan Palmer Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
Please limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up.
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-Q that detailed our results for the quarter.
For the purpose of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the first quarter of 2011.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the slides at owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investors section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin.
We offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
Second these statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.
This presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP are found within the financial tables of our earning release.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman; followed by CFO Duncan Palmer; and then our Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thanks Michael.
And good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our first quarter results.
Driven by continued strong performance in our Composites and Roofing businesses Owens Corning delivered profit that was in line with our expectations for the first quarter.
This performance positions us to reaffirm our full year guidance of $475 million in adjusted EBIT.
I'll talk more about this in a few moments.
Reviewing our first quarter results total revenue was $1.2 billion down 2% compared with the same period last year.
In the face of markets that continued to perform well below their potential EBIT was $61 million down from $97 million one year ago.
EBIT was negatively impacted by lower year-over-year volumes in our Building Materials businesses as well as operating investments to expand our Composites capacity and convert Insulation facilities to boost our new EcoTouch Insulation.
We expect that Building Materials and volumes will improve through the year and that our first quarter operational investments will start showing a positive impact by the end of the second quarter.
Duncan will provide a more detailed reconciliation of our first quarter results in his comments.
So let's now review how Owens Corning is performing relative to the expectations we framed for 2011.
We said that we will continue our progress in creating an injury-free workplace.
During the first quarter our rate of injuries improved by 30% over our full year 2010 performance.
As you may recall 2010 marked our ninth consecutive year of safety improvement.
Achieving this level of further progress is particularly noteworthy.
We said that Composites would deliver another year of double-digit revenue growth and $75 million in EBIT growth.
We delivered 6% revenue growth in the quarter continued pricing momentum and strong production leverage drove a 55% improvement in the first quarter EBIT.
Our first quarter results are consistent with achieving our full year goals for this business.
We said that Roofing EBIT margins of 20% were achievable for the year.
The business delivered EBIT margins of 16% in the first quarter.
And our Roofing results were slightly better than we expected.
We were pleased to see volume recovery in the first quarter after closing 2010 with two quarters of very weak demand.
We are focused on profitability and believe we are on track to achieve our 20% margin goal.
We said Insulation would narrow its losses and embark on a measured path to recovery in 2011.
First quarter Insulation losses were greater than last year due to challenging market conditions and planned operating costs associated with the conversion to EcoTouch production.
We expect this business to continue to lose money in the second quarter and for the year.
However with moderate improvements in the new construction markets we have actions in place that will produce profitability for the second half of the year.
I'll speak more about the Insulation business later on my prepared marks.
First quarter was in line with our expectations although weaker than last year and below Street consensus.
In our fourth quarter call we spoke about many of the items that impacted results in the first quarter.
In particular negative comps on Roofing volumes and contribution margins further weakness in the residential new construction markets costs associated with the EcoTouch conversion and start-up cost in our Composites business.
When we provided our guidance for the year we indicated that comparables will be difficult in the first half of the year and as a consequence our performance would be weighted towards the second half.
We continued to expect that we will see moderate growth in the U.S.
construction markets and that the overall economic outlook will not be materially impacted by the recent volatility in commodity prices or the potential disruption from the events in Japan.
The performance that we are reporting today is consistent with its outlook and underpins our confidence in our full year guidance.
Now let's turn to our review of our business segments and our outlook.
Composites continued to build on its impressive momentum from 2010 as improved pricing and strong production leverage drove major improvements in the first quarter EBIT.
EBIT totaled $48 million on EBIT margins of 10%.
The first quarter marked the sixth consecutive quarter of price improvement for this business.
On our last call we commented that our newly installed capacity in China was up and running.
The facility began shipping products in the first quarter and is expected to contribute to profitability going forward.
In combination with the expansion of other facilities around the world we continue to strengthen our position and take advantage of global composites demand growth.
Moving to our Building Materials segment Roofing continued to deliver strong profitability despite historically weak market conditions.
The business delivered EBIT of $77 million in the first quarter.
In addition first quarter volumes were lower versus the first quarter of 2010.
We are experiencing higher raw material costs particularly in asphalt.
We've taken pricing action in response to this raw material inflation.
We executed a price increase in the first quarter and have announced a second price increase for the middle of this quarter.
These actions if successful will allow us to cover the increased cost of raw materials that we have seen to-date.
As anticipated the Insulation business lost money in the first quarter which is typically a seasonally weak period.
Our Insulation business operates on a 90-day lag to housing starts.
First quarter sales were impacted by lagged housing starts from the fourth quarter which was 3% lower than prior year.
As noted costs associated with the conversion to the production of our innovative EcoTouch Insulation had a negative impact on first quarter results.
EcoTouch represents the single largest product platform change in the history of the Insulation business.
We view this as a game-changing product.
We've received positive feedback from many of our customers and believe that EcoTouch is a major differentiator for Owens Corning in the marketplace.
The plant conversions are well under way.
And at this point more than half of our facilities are producing EcoTouch.
We expect the conversions to be substantially complete in our North American facilities by the end of the second quarter.
In addition we've announced pricing actions on our U.S.
residential Insulation products that are expected to have a positive impact on results in the second half of the year.
Finally during our last call I discussed our agreement with Masco that designated Owens Corning as the primary Insulation provider to their Contractor Services business.
We're working with Masco to implement this agreement in the field and expect to see a positive impact on our performance in the second half of the year.
Despite the market challenges we face we are pleased to have delivered performance that was in line with our expectations for the first quarter.
We expect stronger performance as the year progresses with each of our three primary businesses positioned to benefit from growth.
The headline is that we remain confident in our full year guidance of $475 million in adjusted EBIT in 2011.
And our outlook for the balance of the year remains consistent with progress towards achieving our longer term goals of $1 billion in cumulative free cash flow from 2011 to 2013 and $1 billion or more of adjusted EBITDA in 2013.
Our confidence is rooted in great businesses that serve great customers and markets.
Our team is working hard every day to win with our customers and grow our business.
We're excited about the tremendous opportunities for Owens Corning in 2011 and beyond.
With that I will now turn to our CFO Duncan Palmer for a more detailed look at our first quarter financial performance.
Duncan? Thanks Mike.
[Audio Gap] tables at today's news release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported first quarter 2011 consolidated net sales of $1.24 billion a 2% decrease compared to 2010.
Our Composites segment increased sales over last year by 6% primarily on higher selling prices while revenues in Building Materials fell by 7% on weaker market demand and lower roofing prices.
In the first quarter 2011 we did not have any adjusted items to our reported earnings before interest and taxes EBIT.
In recent years when we have looked at period-over-period comparability our primary measure been adjusted EBIT.
The significant majority of the items we have adjusted as unrepresentative of our ongoing operations have related to major cost reduction programs and merger and acquisition activity.
We will continue to provide adjusted EBIT as a measure to exclude significant items when we do not believe they are reflective of current operations.
As I mentioned in our last earnings call we will continue to adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the first quarter we have adjusted our effective tax rate to 28% in line with our anticipated annual effective tax rate for 2011.
Adjusted EBIT for the first quarter 2011 was $61 million as compared to $97 million of adjusted EBIT in the first quarter 2010.
Results for the quarter were in line with our expectations and provide confidence that we are on track to achieve $475 million in adjusted EBIT for the year.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter 2011 were $25 million or $0.20 per diluted share as compared to adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2010 of $53 million or $0.42 per diluted share.
Depreciation and amortization expense totaled $80 million for the quarter.
This is consistent with our guidance that full year 2011 depreciation and amortization expense will be about $340 million.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $91 million.
We continue to anticipate that capital expenditures for the year will be around $400 million.
Our businesses have experienced inflation particularly in commodity prices at a higher level than we had anticipated.
This inflation affects our input costs particularly asphalt other petroleum-related input materials and transportation costs.
We would anticipate the effect to persist during the remainder of 2011.
We have taken action to address the impact of cost inflation through productivity programs and price actions notably in Roofing.
Further increases in these input costs could impact our business during the year.
Next on Slide 6 you will see adjusted EBIT performance comparing first quarter 2011 with the same period 2010 based on business contribution.
Adjusted EBIT decreased $36 million from first quarter 2010 to first quarter 2011.
EBIT in our Roofing business declined $51 million which was the result of lower unit margins and sales volumes.
Insulation EBIT was $11 million lower.
These impacts were partially offset by our Composites segment which increased first quarter EBIT by $17 million over 2010 demonstrating high operating leverage on increased sales.
General corporate expenses and other in the first quarter 2011 were $9 million lower than the first quarter of 2010 due primarily to the divestiture of our North American Masonry Products business.
For the full year 2011 general corporate expenses are expected to be between $80 million and $90 million.
We have sustained a disciplined approach to managing our operating expenses despite growing our profitability over recent years.
In the first quarter we maintained our overall headcount below the year-end level of 2010.
With that as background turn to Slide 7 and we will begin a more detailed review of our segments starting with Building Materials.
In the first quarter Building Materials net sales was $786 million a 7% decrease from the first quarter 2010.
Building Materials delivered $30 million in EBIT for the first quarter 2011 $57 million less than the same period in 2010 but in line with our expectations.
As we mentioned in the last earnings call we expect that comparables in the first half of 2011 will be challenging particularly in Roofing.
The following 2 slides present the results in more detail by highlighting the businesses within the Building Materials segment the Roofing business and the Insulation business.
First Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing sales for the quarter were $496 million a decrease of 6% from first quarter 2010.
As indicated on our last call in 2010 we experienced very strong shipments in the first and second quarters as our customers built inventories in anticipation of improving market conditions.
In the second half of 2010 we saw a significant reduction in our shipment volumes particularly in the third quarter as our customers corrected their inventories.
We therefore anticipated our first quarter 2011 shipments would be lower than 2010 and they were.
We currently expect that second quarter revenues will also comp negatively with 2010.
We have seen some severe weather so far this year storm demand is a regular part of U.S.
roofing shingle demand.
It is too early to say that the storms we have seen will have a material impact on demand in the second quarter or for the year as a whole.
Overall we expect modest revenue growth for full year 2011 with revenues more evenly split between the first and second half of the year consistent with our historical experience.
Our Roofing business delivered EBIT margins of 16% in the quarter that typically has lower EBIT margins than the annual average.
As we entered the year contribution margins were weaker than we saw in 2010.
Based on the price actions we have taken we expect margins in the second quarter to be about 20%.
We continue to believe 20% EBIT margins are achievable in 2011 as a whole.
Next on to Slide 9.
Insulation sales for the first quarter were $290 million a decrease of 4% from the first quarter 2010.
We experienced lower sales volumes given the current state of the U.S.
housing market as lagged seasonally-adjusted annualized housing starts fell by a further 3%.
Our prices have been stable or slightly increasing across many of our Insulation markets.
EBIT for the first quarter 2011 decreased by $11 million as compared to the same period in 2010.
Insulation results were negatively impacted by lower sales volumes and operational investments associated with the launch of our EcoTouch installation.
We expect that the conversion to EcoTouch production across our facilities will be substantially complete by the end of the second quarter.
We expect that our Insulation business will demonstrate year-over-year revenue growth in the second half of the year based on our relationship as the primary supplier to Masco pricing actions we have announced and the potential for a moderate improvement in housing start activity in the latter half of the year.
We anticipate that revenue growth of as much as 10% this year is achievable depending on the degree and timing of improvement in market demand.
This would enable our business to be profitable for the second half of 2011 as a whole.
However we would expect second quarter demands to comp slightly below second quarter 2010.
As I remind you on each of our quarterly calls this is a great business and a well-structured industry.
Owens Corning's PINK Insulation is a powerful and enduring brand.
We are the clear market leader well-positioned to return to historical levels or performance when demand improves as we know it will.
Next Slide 10 provides an overview of our Composites segment.
Composites sales in the first quarter 2011 were $492 million or 6% higher than the same period in 2010.
This increase was primarily the result of higher selling prices during 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 on our relatively flat volumes.
Demands in China dipped temporarily in January and February but shipments recovered significantly late in the first quarter and have continued in April.
First quarter 2011 EBIT was well ahead of the first quarter 2010.
Composites achieved 10% EBIT margins and delivered $48 million in EBIT driven by increased selling prices which more than offset inflation and by improved manufacturing productivity.
As we anticipated on the fourth quarter call first quarter 2011 EBIT was sequentially below fourth quarter 2010 EBIT due in large part to start-up costs associated with our new facility in China as well as other investment projects in our facilities during the quarter.
We are extremely pleased with the performance of our new facility in China and are confident that this expansion as well as our other investments will contribute significantly to EBIT in 2011 beginning in the second quarter.
As previously announced to further capitalize on market growth we are expanding our reinforcements facility in Russia which is on target for start-up by the end of 2011.
Based on these factors we remain confident that 2011 EBIT can increase by $75 million over 2010 on low double-digit revenue growth.
We expect year-over-year revenue growth in the second quarter to be in line with this overall projection with EBIT margins in the low double digits.
We have a few additional items to cover.
To Slide 11 we continue [Audio Gap] on cash generation and maintaining an investment-grade balance sheet.
Due to the seasonality of our business our operations typically use cash during the first quarter of the year.
In the first quarter 2011 our operations used $213 million which in line with our expectations included additional seasonal working capital and a $78 million contribution to our pension plans.
We did not repurchase any shares under the previously announced buyback program as of March 31 2011 7.7 million shares or 6% of the company's outstanding remain available for repurchase.
We expect to complete the current authorization by the end of 2012.
This represents a return of capital to our shareholders that reflects our strong output for earnings and free cash flow generation.
We believe that our $2.4 billion tax NOL asset has delivered cash tax savings of about $140 million for the period 2009 to 2010.
These ongoing savings demonstrate the value of the NOL.
Due to our favorable tax position we expect to incur less than $30 million cash taxes in 2011.
We project that our effective book tax rate for the year will be 28% with some fluctuation quarter-to-quarter based on our blend of our U.S.
and non-U.S.
operations.
Our first quarter 2011 results were in line with our expectations.
And we remain confident in our guidance of $475 million in adjusted EBIT for the year which translates into growth in adjusted earnings per share of more than 30%.
There is significant uncertainty in the global economic environment including the impact of the recent events in Japan and volatility in commodity prices especially crude oil.
We are monitoring the effects of these factors on our markets.
The size and breadth of these uncertainties could pose challenges to our financial performance and outlook.
In Building Materials we believe that both Roofing and Insulation will benefit from higher year-over-year revenue in the second half of 2011 despite unfavorable comparables in the first half.
As I indicated earlier our outlook anticipates moderate growth in both U.S.
roofing shingle demand and U.S.
lagged housing starts.
The Composites business is positioned to benefit from the growing markets and the start-up of our new facility in China.
This performance keeps us on track to deliver on our goals of reaching $1 billion or more of EBITDA in 2013 and $1 billion of cumulative free cash flow over the period from 2011 to 2013.
And with that Michael back to you for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Duncan.
Shaquana we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jonathan Ellis representing Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
First question on the Insulation business and the comment about profitability in the second half of the year.
I was hoping you could give a little bit more context around the various drivers maybe some assumption around what housing starts would be and then also perhaps an update on price increases.
I know you put through a residential price increase early this year I believe on the order of 6% to 12% perhaps an update on how that has been accepted by the market.
Well thanks for your question.
Good question.
I think that we covered a lot of this in our prepared remarks so let me summarize it kind of specifically to your question.
I think there's really four drivers that when we look at first half second half performance in Insulation give us the confidence to say that we think the business could return to profitability in the second half.
Let's start with your question about starts.
We had come into the year on our fourth quarter call and said that we think starts would be 700 000 this year so we've been a little bit more pessimistic about starts than maybe where the market was as we entered 2011.
I think now – bluechip [ph] economic forecast has kind of come down to the 630 000 range.
We've been kind of in those mid-600 000.
So from where we are today that would represent sequential improvement in the construction market and if we follow that path we'd expect to see the market comp positively from the first quarter to the second from the second to the third and the third to the fourth particularly because we deal with the lag.
And certainly in the second half we'd expect to see the market comp positively to the second half of 2010.
So that would be a positive.
The second positive is in the second half of last year we did have some EcoTouch conversion costs that were in our Insulation numbers.
Those were in the first half of this year.
So we would expect those cost to begin to come out of our numbers sequentially in the second half versus the first.
And we'd also expect them to comp positively versus the second half of last year.
Third I think Duncan and I both spoke to the timing of the implementation of the Masco agreement that we talked about in our last call.
We had said in February that we had been chosen by Masco to be their primary supplier of Insulation to their Contractor Services business.
As you might imagine it actually made some of those transitions happen in the field takes some time.
That work is underway.
We would expect that the additional volume from Masco would begin to have an impact on our performance really starting in the second half of the year.
So again positive sequential comp as well as positive comps to prior year.
And then finally on pricing we have announced a fairly significant price increase for late in the second quarter.
Mid-double digits of 15% increase on most of our U.S.
residential Insulation products.
And then a bit higher increase on some of our high performance products which are more expensive to manufacture and deliver we believe a greater value to the homeowner and to the builder.
We've been working very hard on pricing and believe that beginning to move the needle on price is a very important lever for us to get the business back to profitability as soon as possible.
Certainly as the outlook for housing has become more pessimistic over the last 2 or 3 years in terms of the speed of the recovery it's become more important for us to get proper value for our products.
So we would expect again with the achievement of that pricing that we would see a sequential improvement in our price both at comparable basis to the first half as well as an improvement on a comparable basis to the second of last year.
We really need kind of all four of those knobs to be kicking in and that's where the management team is focused and those are the actions we're taking.
And as a result we don't think that in the second quarter we would get back to profitability.
I think we're fairly clear about that so we do think across the second half in total we should be able to return to profitability in Insulation this year.
Great.
That's very helpful.
The second question is just on the Composites business.
To be clear do you need to see further improvement in Asia or further recovery off of -- I think Duncan [ph] you mentioned improving in March and April but a further acceleration in order to get to your full year EBIT target or is the run rate now going to be sufficient in Asia to achieve that.
And then secondly talk about pricing in Composites globally is there still more of a push in the United States on pricing? Or are you seeing that spread to other regions as well? I'll handle the question related to Asia and then I'll let Duncan talk a little bit about pricing and our pricing outlook.
What we said today in our disclosure was that particularly in China we saw a little bit of kind of an air pocket or a soft patch in the business midway through the first quarter.
We were pretty pleased with where we saw volumes in March and kind of where we see volumes so far in April.
So it feels to us like we were seeing a temporary issue or a timing issue as opposed to an overall correction or some type of softness in the overall market.
We expect growth in China this year so we would expect to see normal growth in the China market through the year and I think our outlook would depend on that.
But we don't need to see any type of remarkable recovery from today's levels of volumes in order to feel comfortable with the guidance we've given.
Duncan you maybe want to say a few things about pricing? Yes I mean we've seen as we said on the call several quarters now -- and I think we said the 8 quarters of consistent improving pricing overall in Composites.
Obviously there's a lot of different prices in a lot of different markets and regions in the Composites business but generally the trends are being I mean pretty good for several quarters now.
And I think the market is still relatively in the early cycle of growth.
And we talked about seeing some tightness in capacity end of last year.
So we've -- generally speaking been seeing very positive trends in pricing in the Composites segment.
We've been able to more than recover the inflation over the last year that we've seen.
And we're probably back now in pricing to kind of roughly the levels that we saw before the crisis in 2008.
In terms of the outlook for pricing obviously it will vary again by markets and by end-market applications.
But generally speaking I think we're still in the early stages of a Composite cycle and therefore I think there's still the opportunity for us to continue to see that being relatively a help rather than a hindrance.
Okay.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut representing JPMorgan.
Thanks.
First question just on the EcoTouch I was wondering if you could -- if it's possible to drill down on that just a little bit more in terms of: number one the cost impact; and number two going forward once that's fully implemented what type of magnitude do you expect that to have either/or and on both a sales and margin side? Okay.
Let me talk first about what we're really doing there.
I think with the EcoTouch product we've come out with a new binder system for our Insulation product which make the product softer reduces the dust and irritation has given us I think some very good mechanical properties and some performance properties for our customers.
So we think we've created a sustainable and very green product without really any compromises for our customers.
We've given them a product that is as good if not better.
And most of our market research today says our customers prefer this product and believe it is better than the product we are putting in the market prior to this conversion and in giving them a sustainability message and a performance message that I think is very welcome in the market today.
In order to do that we do need to shut down our facilities for a short period of time we need to make some conversions and particularly the chemistry area of our plant.
We then need to bring the plant back up and we have obviously a learning curve a phenomena as the employees in the plant learn how to operate the new technology and learn how to operate that is good economics.
We've been at this now in terms of conversions through late last year and I think in the most pronounced way in the first quarter of this year.
I think if you look at the delta in terms of EBIT performance from last year to this year and the first quarter EcoTouch and some of the top line weakness probably describe most of the delta between last year's performance and this year's performance in terms of why we didn't comp positively with 2010.
It was both top line and then some of these cost -- I would expect that you'd probably have a similar magnitude of impact to the cost side in the second quarter and then that would start to go away in the second half of the year we'd actually comp positively to the second half.
In terms of market impact we have done a fair amount of research in particular with insulation contractors and their [ph] feedback that the product installs faster.
That it comes out of the bag and recovers faster and that it performs better in the wall for them so we think our customers will pick up some productivity.
We do know that the contractors who work with it or the individuals who work with it have commented on the softness and kind of silkiness of the fibers.
You know that we’ve unfortunately enjoyed a long-standing reputation for making product a product that is itchy.
And I think most people go back probably 30 years with their experience of FIBERGLAS Insulation and drawing that conclusion.
The product that we put in the market today is dramatically different than the product any of us would have as a reference point on Insulation.
And in fact the product has very low irritation very few people are today irritated or found in any way the product is itchy.
So we really started to get a product that we can look people straight in the eye and say this is a product we think you'll enjoy working with.
We think that will give us obviously a preference with the professional contractor who deals with the product all day long.
And then obviously as you move to retail we think we've got a nice message for Home Depot who really is our partner today on the big box side or the lumber yards or others who might sell to a do-it-yourself-er in terms of why this product is a good product for a do-it-yourself-er to consider for their re-insulation projects.
So we think it's a winner all around and all those little bits of preference add up to the market-leading position we've always enjoyed in Insulation.
Great.
Thank you Mike.
The second question just on roofing and asphalt obviously it's heartening to hear the reiteration of your outlook for the 20% margin there.
In the first quarter and as you look into the second quarter I was wondering if you could just kind of -- if possible get a little more granular in terms of where you are with the -- I believe and correct me if I'm wrong through the price there's some additional price increases that your implementing in Roofing and where that stands and if there's additional ones that you also intend to implement in 2Q as you are in Insulation? Sure I'd be happy to talk about that.
Starting with kind of your first comment about volumes we were happy to see that we felt that we had a pretty healthy quarter from a volume point of view in what is still a very weak market.
So I mean relative to our market expectations we are expecting that it's going to be one of the lowest markets on the last 15 or 20 years.
But incrementally a bit better than '10.
And certainly the first quarter result in terms of volumes gives us confidence that that's probably the environment we're operating in.
Coming into the year I think we talked in the third quarter call of last year and also in the fourth quarter call of last year there was very very weak volumes in the second half.
We were seeing more buy activity.
We were seeing some more price competition in the market that weakened our contribution margins a bit in the third quarter and then I think further weakened our contribution margins a bit in the fourth quarter.
We entered the year therefore with a little bit less earnings power in the business than we had in the first half of last year.
And I think that showed up in the margins that we reported in the first quarter this year.
We did take a pricing action that was implemented in the first quarter.
We've announced another price action for the middle of the second quarter.
At that time we announced those we were seeing some run-up in oil prices and asphalt costs.
Obviously we've seen the run-up in oil prices and asphalt costs accelerate over the course of the last 30 or 45 days so we've been glad to be ahead of the curve on that.
If you go back to '08 which was the last time we saw this kind of run-up in oil prices that was a time that we were relatively successful in improving the pricing of our product and being able to recapture that inflation in the market.
So that's where the scenario -- we see ourselves moving into here in the second quarter.
And feel pretty comfortable that we should be able to get margins back to guidance in the second quarter.
Great.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of Joshua Pollard representing Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot.
My first question is on Composites there seem to be a lot of moving -- sort of moving things within the quarter.
At what point would you expect Composites to return back to its 4Q 2010 profitability levels? Well Josh I mean we've said for the year that we think Composites would show a $75 million of EBIT growth versus prior years.
So clearly we are expecting kind of double-digit top line that Composites' overall level of profitability would improve and that we would get that out of both the operating leverage and some of the sequential pricing that Duncan talked about.
I think in broad terms you should expect to see that progress be made through the year.
So we haven't given any specific quarterly guidance as to where we expect Composites margin to be in any given quarter.
But clearly in the first quarter we were impacted by some start-up costs not just in our China facility but we brought some additional capacity online in the U.S.
and some additional capacity online in Europe.
We would expect to see those investments in capacity start-up begin to pay some dividends for us in the second half -- second quarter and then continuing into the second half as kind of our operations line out and we start operating in a pretty balanced way.
And in the quarter did you run into any issue shipping your asphalt product given the limited availability of trucks across the country? And if not and storm demand picks up for you all would you guys anticipate any bottlenecks in your supply chain for the Asphalt business? It's a great question Josh.
We ship roofing on flat decks and certainly flat deck availability in the U.S.
has been one of the issues even with kind of as weak as the U.S.
economic recovery has been that -- that's a place where the market has gotten the bottlenecks I think sooner than you would've expected.
It's really I think a competitive issue as well as a supply chain issue.
So on the one hand could we potentially have some supply chain issues related to availability of flat decks? The answer to that clearly is yes.
I mean if we were to really see demand to pickup related to storms or we needed to start moving product across regions in some more pronounced way than we do today that could tie up more equipment.
Relative to the other roofing manufacturers we think we're fairly well-positioned with some good long-term relationships with some carriers with whom we think we enjoyed good relations.
So if that were a problem we think it would be industry-wide and we wouldn't expect that it would hurt us anymore significantly than any of our competition.
So it really end up becoming a timing problem more than a market share problem.
I think that's something we could work our way through.
Okay.
And last sort of follow-up is -- what's the fulcrum on your stock where you guys ultimately believe it makes more sense to hold the cash on the balance sheet than to use it for stock buybacks? The reason I'm asking is for the last 2 quarters your share repurchases have come in below our expectation and I'm trying to get a sense of the sort of pace and timing of your future share repurchases.
Thank you.
Thanks Josh I'll take that it's Duncan.
What we've said is that we have 7.7 million shares outstanding under the repurchase program and we expect to be complete in that by the end of 2012.
As we came into the year -- looking at this year as a whole obviously we took a look at whether the cash flow during the year is coming in where the free cash flow is going to be in the year.
It's traditional for us to use cash in the first quarter.
We also used a little more than usual probably because we put quite a lot of money into our pension this quarter as we looked to some of the things we needed to get done and terms of EcoTouch in terms of making sure our stocks are up in China was on schedule.
We were somewhat cautious about how we deployed our free cash flow in advance [ph] of some of those items as we looking further into the year.
And the line of sight to free cash flow during the year -- I think you can expect us to evaluate that decision on an ongoing basis.
And your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin representing Citigroup.
When you gave your full year guidance back in February were you assuming then that Insulation would return to profitability in the second half of the year? Yes when we gave our guidance obviously we didn't break it down maybe with some of the detail that we provided today.
But our expectations for the Insulation business really have not changed in the last 75 days.
So as we came into the year we saw some of the challenges in the first quarter and the second quarter related to comps and market-based issues and didn't candidly expect to make a bunch of progress versus prior year.
In the first half we came into the year expecting to make progress versus prior in the second half of to and including making money.
So I don't think we have seen anything in the last 75 days that has changed our expectations or outlook for the Insulation business.
Okay.
And going back to EcoTouch just trying to drill down a little bit can you quantify can you give us a number the costs associated with the launch of EcoTouch in the first quarter and maybe the second quarter that will not reoccur in the second half of the year? Yes I mean I think I probably gave as good an answer on that earlier in the call.
When you look at the quarter we were about $10 million down on EBIT versus prior year top line was off about $10 million.
If you look at the difference in bottom line performance in the business it's really those two things that were driving the variance in EBIT year-over-year.
Prices were stable to slightly up.
We had some inflation but the inflation was not pronounced because that's really more of a natural gas-driven inflation and we have not seen a lot of inflation in those types of energy cost.
So our inflation was fairly well under control.
Our revenue was a little bit down and that caused us to lose a little bit of profitability or to create a little bit greater losses.
And then in addition we have these one-time costs that we think will start to go out of the books by the end the second quarter.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Kathryn Thompson representing Thompson Research Group.
LLC.</strong> Thanks for taking my questions today.
With the expansion of your Masco composite facility which is due to be completed by the end of 2012 could you confirm that this will be for your higher margin project? And a question for this -- is the target market for this project in the U.S.
or elsewhere? Could you confirm the primary end markets for this planned expansion? And could you also just reiterate -- does this change any of your volume growth outlook for Composites over the next 12 to 48 months? Yes great question.
We had previously disclosed I guess through our press release sometime in the first quarter an announcement that we intended to expand our reinforcements plant in existing platform in Mexico.
That expansion will take place probably beginning later this year and will continue through 2012 truly be available to us in a material way beginning in 2013.
Our general philosophy in Composites is to try to match capacity to local market demand so we tend to think of regional capacity and regional demand and try to keep the business fairly well in balance.
Our decision to add capacity in China obviously which is now behind us was related to growth we saw in Asia.
Our decision to add to capacity in Russia is related to some growth we've seen in Eastern Europe.
And now our decision to expand in Mexico is related to some market opportunity that we see certainly in North America.
But I think as importantly probably the ability to create what we believe will be global scale low-cost platform that if we do need to move product across geographies we think the platform we have in Mexico is probably as low-cost a platform as there exists in the world.
Depending on what happens with the Chinese currency or inflation in China it remains to be seen kind of how competitive the Chinese manufacturers will stay in terms of exporting from China to the U.S.
or North America.
So certainly that might create a bigger opportunity for us in North America than we're currently banking on.
But with the global market growing at about 6% a year I think we've talked previously that a scale melter [ph] adds about 5% to 10% capacity to our overall network.
This will be just the next piece of capacity we need to put in place another for us today be able to maintain our global market position.
LLC.</strong> And do you expect that 6%-plus percent growth for the couple of years doing that -- is that part of your plan for adding this capacity? Yes we've said that I think in a good way that we're probably still early in the cycle for our Composites recovery.
And that this recovery or this cycle actually represents a big opportunity for the company that we maybe haven't seen in the last two or three cycles.
Typically it takes a little longer into the cycle before we would see tightness in our capacity and have the ability to put capital into the business and have the ability to put in low-cost capacity.
I think because of the restructuring we did post the Vetrotex acquisition we took out a fair amount of high-cost capacity and actually ended up in a situation where we were at reasonably high levels of utilization fairly early in the cycle.
So our goal here is to now use this opportunity to bring online very low cost well-situated capacity that has a chance to operate through the remainder of this cycle and make good returns for the company and then also position us to be a very well-cost global manufacturer.
LLC.</strong> Okay thanks.
On [ph] Roofing did you use any qualitative statements or are you seeing any increased resident demand from storms that we saw earlier this year? Yes Duncan talked about that a little bit and then maybe I'll just see what I can add on that.
You know on our Investor Day we put out a slide where we show 15 years of roofing demand and we break it -- this is market data and we break it by what is new construction-related what is our estimate of re-roof and repair and what is our estimate of storm-related demand.
I think for 2010 we estimated that there was about 6 million squares of demand associated with storms and I believe we've disclosed that we believe the 15-year average for that is around 8 million squares per year.
This early in the year it's hard to tell whether some of the storms we have seen through the Carolinas and here through the Ohio Valley are in fact accretive to the 6 million to 8 million that we would expect in any given year or whether they're just the normal storm demand that you would expect to cause there to be 6 million to 8 million squares of demand for the year.
So it's a long storm season.
You have the spring seasons which is really starting now and then of course you have hurricane season in the fall.
So it's very hard for us to give a forecast as to whether or not some of the storm activity we've seen today represents normal storm demand as we work our way through the year or whether it actually represents some additional market growth.
I think you're going to have to give us probably another quarter or maybe even 6 more months before we really know.
LLC.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall representing RBC.
LLC</strong> With the -- as it pertains to the EcoTouch conversion and I think this is -- I've oriented this question towards Duncan what was the decision to expense it as opposed to capitalize it because it looks like it's distorting your margin performance? And tied to that are you expecting any market share pickup as you roll out the product? Okay this is Duncan.
So I'll take the kind of financial question and maybe Mike can talk a bit to it in terms of market share.
There are capital costs and operating costs associated with this investment as well as many others.
And we are investing both in capital and the operating expenses.
So I'll tell you a bit about the capital.
The capital obviously as we convert different plants why we're spending capital on that and one of the reasons why where seeing depreciation pickup maybe later in the year will be because we will fully implement the capital that we're putting into EcoTouch.
The operating expenses are things like the start-up effects you see as you start up a new production facility -- typically you will see costs associated with the performance of those facilities as they come out the learning curve.
And those are the kind of costs that you expense through the income statement.
Mike do you want to talk about market share? Yes I mean related to market share I think internally one of the very important teaching points we have as a leadership team with our commercial teams with our general managers is that great companies win market share and great companies earn market share.
And certainly the way you win market share or earn market share is by doing things that are better and different and innovative.
And I would say in terms of our ability to approach our customers with something innovative something new and something that we believe is better it certainly gives our sales teams and our commercial teams a portfolio now of value add along with our Building Science capability along with our geographic reach along with our network along with our people.
It gives us a broader portfolio of value add that we bring to bear to our customers that give us we hope a more compelling argument as to why they would should reward us with more of their business and why we have an opportunity to win some market share or earn some market share from our customers.
I would say that as we look at our overall outlook we are not assuming a big pickup in market share related to the EcoTouch launch that somehow underpins our more positive outlook for Insulation in the second half.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Switching gears to the reinforcement facility in China could you give us just a rough estimate of what kind of EBIT contribution you're looking at the second half? I know you've talked about $75 million in pickup for the full year what are you looking to get out of China this year? And can we use your second half as a normalized run rate for 2012? This is Mike.
I'm looking at Duncan to see if he can maybe give any additional value to the answer I'm about to give.
We've been pretty reluctant to give specific guidance on specific regions of the world or on specific facilities because there's an awful lot of kind of intercompany transfer of product and other things that goes into the way we run the business.
We run the business as a global business with a regional overlay.
We've talked in the past about why we think this is such a good investment because currently our supply chain is actually shipping towards China and that as this facility comes up it gives some incremental capacity in Europe and North America to meet some growth that we see in those markets while giving us a low-cost platform in China to serve that local market.
This is an investment that's China-for-China.
I think probably the broadest guidance I can give you on that is this is critical to the $75 million of improved EBIT that we advertised for 2011.
And obviously as we entered -- as we exit the year with that type of performance we're going to have good momentum at year end that we've expected to carry over into 2012.
Duncan I don't know if there's any you'd add to that.
Yes before we go back to some of the comments we made on Investor Day and just from memory and I think we sort of said that this plant was about 5% to 7% of our global capacity or 5% to 8% of our global capacity somewhere in that range.
So it's a material plant for us but it's -- we probably expect this to obviously be at least as profitable as the average of our business.
I mean we're not adding a whole lot of incremental SG&amp;A for this kind of plant.
So it's a fairly profitable activity.
So I think as there's also an opportunity to really drive incremental EBIT margins by having a plan that's very efficient such as this in a growing market and adding on to the platform that we already have.
Over the longer term when driving this business towards mid-teens type of operating margins as opposed to low double digits -- so I think there is still -- we're still in the phase of a cycle where we're expanding the capacity of this business to generate profitability both in terms of pricing but also in terms of our ability to have profitable capacity.
And as we continue to see the market grow we would anticipate adding this sort of capacity that we talked about in China that we've announced in Mexico expanding our plant in Russia.
So I think all those will be additive to our overall margin story as we drive towards the mid-teens kind of operating margins that we're driving this business towards.
LLC</strong> That's great.
Thanks very much for the color.
Shaquana maybe one more caller please.
Your next question comes from the line of Dennis McGill representing Zelman &amp; Associates.
Thanks for taking my question.
Mike I was hoping just to get your opinion on sort of within Insulation the industry structure around pricing increases and kind of what's happened with prior ones.
It's obviously critical to the profitability in the second half of the year and we'll see how this future price increases go through.
But we've seen them kind of whittled away in the past and with you guys being the market leader can you just kind of talk through the moving parts there aside from just volume demand and what's going on in the end channel kind of behavior of market participants? And why we haven't seen stronger pricing actions in the past given the consolidated nature of the industry? Well given the nature of the construction markets which I know you follow very carefully for any manufacturer to be successful in a price increase you've got to be in a position where your customer has a way to ultimately pass that price increase through to their customers.
There's not enough margin today -- excuse me there's not enough margin today in distribution or with the contractors or with the retailer for them to be able to absorb price increases from the manufacturer and not need to move prices with their end customers.
So really the challenge for us and the challenge for all the market participants has been how do you create an environment where the homebuilder and the contractor are able to find a way to put a little bit more cost into a home associated with rising insulation prices.
I think ultimately you need all the stars to line up to make that happen.
You need a little bit improvement in the housing market where homebuilders are maybe feeling a bit more optimistic and feeling like prices are not falling on new construction so that they have some room in the pricing of their homes that they can absorb a little bit of cost increase.
You need contractors that are not making a lot of money today to see the possibility that driving for price with the builder is a way to more rapidly improve the performance of their business.
And then you need manufacturers like Owens Corning to be able to support those kinds of factors in getting product into the homes at competitive prices.
But really you realize some of the value are for what we do provide in the home which is we provide energy efficiency for the life of the home.
So it's kind of a silly value proposition to give away.
But if you don't have that kind of lining up through to the end market it's very difficult to get price.
We're hopeful that some of those stars might be lining up here in the second half of the year as we start to see some recovery in housing as we start to see the depth and duration of this downturn increase the focus on trying to improve profitability in the contractors business and certainly in Owens Corning's Insulation business.
So if I'm interpreting you correctly it's more dependent on volume than the ability of manufacturers to stay firm? Because we've seen other industries where maybe the challenges with volume are just as significant but the willingness for the manufacturing base to push forward has maybe helped.
And maybe any color you can add about just the industry as a whole it seems to be in a position where they need this increase maybe more than they have in the past and perhaps that factors into more success in the back half of the year.
Yes I mean I think if you compare or contrast Insulation to Roofing today we have relatively similar industry structures.
I think if you go back 10 years ago obviously the Roofing business was quite a bit more fragmented than it is today.
If you go back to the 2008 period of time where we saw the big run-up in oil prices and therefore the big run-up in asphalt prices as a manufacturer we needed to be fairly aggressive about pricing in order to offset the inflation we were seeing.
I think our distribution customers saw that actually as an opportunity for them to improve the performance of their business.
And for a distributor if prices are going up if you buy well on the way up you can actually get some margins that will widen out a bit as your purchase prices -- as your sale prices go up and your inventory cost maybe don't go up quite as quickly as your sale prices.
So we've had kind of that virtuous dynamic in the Roofing side of the business where increasing prices has actually been reasonably beneficial to all the market participants.
We have not had that on the Insulation side and I think from a cycle point of view that's the cycle that's going to need to break in Insulation before we're going to see meaningful increases in our prices which will allow us to improve our profitability.
Okay.
And just one quick one for either yourself or Duncan how should we model the divestiture for the Brazil facility what kind of impact will that have in the back half of the year? I mean in terms of the actual gain on sale or loss on sale that we recorded I mean that will be typically something that when it closes if it's material or significant then it's nature that we would kind of adjust out.
In terms of the lost profitability of the business itself I don't think we've provided any specific guidance as to how much money that facility makes for us in our Brazilian business.
It is a profitable facility.
It's certainly a facility that makes money and is profitable and will continue to be profitable.
But it's not a very large facility in our overall network so I don't think it's hugely material in that context.
And certainly we fully reflected the potential loss of that profitability in our guidance overall for Composites for the year.
I would though add maybe that we have two facilities in Brazil the one that we're selling is definitely the smaller of the two.
So from a top line perspective it's only a point or so type impact? We haven't provided specific guidance on that.
I think I gave you the kind of color that I think would enable you to kind of back into this impact.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Very good.
Thank you for joining us today for today's call.
With that I'm going to turn it back to Mike who has a few closing remarks.
Thanks Michael.
First of all thanks everyone for joining us on the call and for your continued interest and support of our company.
Obviously I think the overall message for our first quarter results today is that while the results were a bit weaker than last year and certainly below Street consensus that we felt actually okay about the quarter.
That a lot of the things that impacted our results in the quarter were things that candidly we saw and talked about as we came into the year.
I wouldn't be -- I'll be less than forthcoming if I said it's sometimes not more fun to run a business that gets way ahead of last year early in the year and then stays ahead.
We knew coming into this year -- that wasn't the kind of year we were going to have that we were going to comp negatively through the first half and that it was going to be a back-end loaded year.
But it's not back-end loaded because somehow weakness in the first half has caused us to push objectives for performance into the second half.
And then the actions that we took in the first quarter around EcoTouch around bringing up some Composites facilities pricing actions getting our China operations and Composites operating getting our position in the market set are all the things that we needed to happen in the first quarter for us to continue to feel optimistic about the guidance that we gave for the year.
I said it in my prepared comments I'll repeat it now that we think the headline for the call is that the expectations for the first quarter were met on the management side and that we continue to feel comfortable with our guidance for the year.
And we look forward to having you join us again on our second quarter call.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Deana and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Michael McMurray Vice President Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Deana.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking time to join us for today's conference call and review of our business results for the second quarter of 2011.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Duncan Palmer Chief Financial Officer.
[Operator Instructions] Early this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-Q that detailed our results for the quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the second quarter of 2011.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the slides at owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investors section of our website.
The call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin.
We offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
Second these statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.
This presentation in today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP are found within the financial tables of our earning release.
For those of you following along on our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by CFO Duncan Palmer.
Mike will then provide some comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thanks Michael.
And good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our second quarter and first-half 2011 results.
Owens Corning delivered a strong quarter.
The actions we took in the quarter built significant momentum across the company and position us for a strong second half.
As a result we've increased our EBIT outlook for the year to $500 million or more up from our previous guidance of $475 million.
Let's begin by reviewing the key highlights for the quarter.
Net sales totaled $1.5 billion a 5% increase over the same period last year and second quarter adjusted EBITDA improved to $135 million a $5 million increase over 2010.
The Roofing business saw a substantial increase in both volume and revenue supported by the spike in first-half storm activity.
The Composites business also delivered strong performance although the growth was tempered by weakness in the Chinese wind energy market.
The Insulation business continue to focus on strong cost control to mitigate the ongoing impact of the weak housing market and it's positioned to make money in the second half of the year.
We completed several significant transactions including the divestiture of our composites plant in Capivari Brazil; the acquisition of 2 FiberTEK businesses to increase our loosefill insulation capacity; the refinancing of our $800 million revolving credit facility; and the repurchase of 1.2 million shares of common stock during the quarter.
The FiberTEK move is a further demonstration of our approach to capital deployment and portfolio management.
We are a great owner of this business.
We have strengthened our Insulation business with great assets that we will operate well.
And I would note the investment is roughly on par with the overall proceeds we will receive from our Masonry Products divestiture that we made last year a business for which we did not believe we were the best owner.
Before Duncan provides a more detailed reconciliation of our second quarter results I would like to also review how we are performing relative to the expectations we framed at the outset of this year.
We said that we would continue our progress in creating an injury-free workplace.
At the midpoint of 2011 our rate of injuries has improved by 21% over our full year 2010 performance.
This positions us favorably to achieve a 10th consecutive year of safety improvement.
We said Composites would deliver another year of double-digit revenue growth and $75 million of EBIT growth.
We grew second quarter Composites EBIT by more than 30% compared with the same period last year.
EBIT growth was driven by continued pricing momentum and production leverage.
Through the first half we've grown the EBIT by $30 million representing 41% growth.
With recent volume developments we believe that our previous goal of 40% EBIT growth in 2011 is now overly aggressive but we do expect another strong year with growth of about 25% in EBIT.
We said Insulation would narrow its losses and embark on a measured path to recovery in 2011.
The Insulation business lost money in the quarter primarily the result of a challenging market conditions.
With actions we have taken we now see a clear path to making money in Insulation during the second half of the year.
Finally we said that Roofing EBIT margins of 20% were achievable for the year.
Aided by successful pricing actions and significant storm activity in the United States Roofing delivered EBIT of $141 million and EBIT margins of 22% in the second quarter.
We remain focused on growth and profitability and are well on track to achieve our 20% margin goal for the year in this business.
At the midpoint of 2011 Owens Corning has delivered strong revenue and EBIT performance despite continued weakness in residential housing markets substantial conversion costs and start-up costs and broader economic challenges.
Now let's turn to a review of our business segments.
Composites continued to deliver strong performance with quarterly EBIT of $55 million up 31% from the same period last year and EBIT margins in excess of 10%.
Composites revenue growth was at the low end of management expectations during the second quarter.
This was primarily due to weakness in the China wind energy market negatively impacting volumes.
Long term we continue to believe that the wind energy market in China is a great opportunity for Composites.
In fact industry estimates suggest that China will show continued growth in 2011 for the amount of wind generation capacity connected to the grid.
Our near-term challenges are being driven by the reduction of a fairly sizable inventory of turbines that had been constructed prior to 2011 but had not been connected to the grid.
The current near-term priority in China is connecting these existing turbines to the power grid.
This has created an inventory in the supply chain for new turbine builds and has reduced fiberglass shipments into the wind market by as much as 1/3 from 2010.
We would expect a recovery in wind-related glass demand in 2012 as well as continued growth for our business in our non-wind volumes.
Overall these developments have caused us to delay our expectations for overall China performance by about 12 to 18 months.
Now let's move to the Building Materials segment where Insulation business experienced a 5% decrease in net sales for both the second quarter and first half of this year.
Second quarter sales were impacted by lagged housing starts from the first quarter which were 7% lower than prior year.
Costs associated with converting to production of our innovative EcoTouch insulation also had a negative impact on first-half results.
With EcoTouch conversion now substantially launched in all of our North American residential markets we will see these costs dissipate in the second half.
In addition we expect to see near-term benefits from continued sequential price gains cost actions that we have been taking and will take through the remainder of 2011 and improved volumes from seasonal demand a slowly improving housing market fall retail sales activity and the broader impact of our expanded relationship with Masco.
Strong execution on the opportunities we have created underpins our confidence to make money for the Insulation business in the second half of the year.
Finally we executed another action that strengthen the future of our Insulation business.
The acquisition of FiberTEK Insulation LLC and FiberTEK Insulation West LLC.
The FiberTEK acquisitions are a great addition for Owens Corning and our customers.
With acquired manufacturing locations in Florida and Utah we have strengthened our ability to serve the North American loosefill market.
Existing FiberTEK customers will now have access to our award-winning EcoTouch family of high-performance residential and light commercial insulation products.
These facilities will produce Owens Corning PROPINK Loosefill Insulation.
This product line is often referred to as blown-in insulation.
Through the U.S.
housing downturn our loosefill demand has been a relative bright spot for the business.
First loose was a great product for reinstallation retrofits used in existing homes to make them more comfortable and energy efficient.
Second increases in the energy efficiency standards in building codes at the state and local level have increased demand for insulation in the attic which is often a blown-in solution.
Finally recent innovation in OC's loosefill product line have made a more productive and easy to use versus low-quality cellulose products creating substitution opportunities for growth.
Moving to our Roofing business.
We continued to deliver strong profitability responding well to market conditions.
This year storm-related volume is approaching the highest level we've seen in the last 15 years.
It's important to remember that storm demand typically constitutes the smallest category of overall U.S.
market demand for asphalt shingles.
The bulk of this demand composed of reroofing and new construction application still remains at a 15 year low.
In addition we continued to experience higher raw material cost particularly in asphalt.
We've taken 4 pricing actions this year in response to this raw material inflation which has enabled us to cover the increased cost of raw materials that we've seen to date.
Duncan will now walk through more details on our segment performance and other key financial developments in the quarter after which I will return to speak to our outlook.
Duncan? Thanks Mike.
Let's start on Slide 5 where we show our key financial data for the second quarter 2011.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's news release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported second quarter 2011 consolidated net sales of $1.45 billion a 5% increase compared to 2010.
Our Composites segment increased sales over last year by 8% primarily on higher selling prices and favorable foreign exchange rates while revenues in Building Materials rose 4% on stronger demand for our roofing shingles.
In 2011 we have not had any adjusted items to our reported earnings before interest and taxes EBIT.
In recent years we have excluded items that were unrepresentative of our ongoing operations to arrive at adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparability.
EBIT for the second quarter 2011 was $135 million as compared to $130 million of adjusted EBIT in the second quarter 2010.
Results for the quarter continued to demonstrate the strength of our business portfolio and our ability to execute in the midst of end markets that are not performing to their potential.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter 2011 were $77 million or $0.61 per diluted share as compared to adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 2010 of $73 million or $0.57 per diluted share.
As I mentioned on our last earnings call we have adjusted our effective book tax rate to 28% in the second quarter to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations.
We continue to enjoy a very favorable cash tax position.
Depreciation and amortization expense totaled $85 million for the quarter.
This is consistent with our guidance that full year 2011 depreciation and amortization expense will be about $340 million.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $119 million and we continue to anticipate that capital expenditures for the year will be around $400 million.
Our businesses have experienced inflation particularly in commodity prices at a higher level than we have anticipated as we entered the year.
This inflation affects our input costs particularly asphalt other petroleum-related input materials and transportation costs.
We anticipate inflationary pressures to persist during the remainder of 2011.
We have taken action to address the impact of cost inflation through productivity programs and price actions in all businesses.
Next on Slide 6 you will see adjusted EBIT performance comparing second quarter 2011 with the same period 2010 based on business contribution.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $5 million from second quarter 2010 to second quarter 2011.
EBIT in our Composites business increased $13 million which was the result of higher selling prices and production leverage.
This was partially offset by an $8 million decline in Roofing EBIT and a $12 million decline in Insulation EBIT.
General corporate expenses and other in the quarter in 2011 were $12 million lower than the second quarter of 2010.
This was primarily the result of the elimination of a loss in North American Masonry Products and a reduction in corporate expenses.
Included in corporate for the second quarter 2011 was the $16 million gain on the previously announced sale of our reinforcements plant in Capivari Brazil that was offset $17 million of charges related to cost actions that we took in our Insulation business.
I will explain these charges further in my comments on Insulation.
We now expect a slight increase in general corporate expenses to be between $90 million and $100 million based on the company's performance and increase in the stock price over the first half of the year.
We have sustained a disciplined approach to managing our operating expenses despite growing our businesses over recent years.
With that as background turn to Slide 7 and we will begin a more detailed review of our segments starting with Building Materials.
In the second quarter Building Materials net sales were $971 million a 4% increase from the second quarter 2010.
Building Materials delivered $103 million in EBIT for the second quarter 2011 $15 million less than the same period in 2010.
The following 2 slides present the results in more detail by highlighting the businesses within the Building Materials segment the Roofing business and the Insulation business.
First Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing sales for the quarter were $645 million an increase of 13% from second quarter 2010.
On our last call we expected that second quarter revenues would compare negatively with 2010 due to the very strong shipments we experienced in the first and second quarters of 2010.
However we have seen an increase in demand for our shingles due to the first-half storm activity which resulted in second quarter 2011 sales exceeding those in the same period 2010.
We believe that 2011 storm demand could approach the highest level seen in the last 15 years resulting in overall market growth in the low- to mid-teens versus 2010.
I remind you that despite this increase shingle demand remains well below its long-term average level.
In addition to revenue growth in the second quarter we delivered EBIT margins of 22%.
We were extremely pleased with this performance in light of continued inflation in asphalt.
We have implemented 3 sales price increases year-to-date.
We expect the impact of these increases to expand margins in the third quarter along with continued strong volumes.
We are confident that we will deliver 20% EBIT margins for 2011 as a whole.
Next on to Slide 9.
In line with our expectations coming into the quarter weakness in U.S.
lagged housing starts negatively impacted sales in our Insulation business.
As a result Insulation sales for the second quarter were $326 million a decrease of 3% from the same quarter in 2010.
Prices have been stable or slightly increasing across many of our Insulation products.
EBIT for the second quarter 2011 decreased by $12 million as compared to the same period in 2010.
Insulation results were negatively impacted by lower sales volumes and operational investments associated with EcoTouch.
We are extremely pleased to have completed the launch of our new EcoTouch residential insulation as our customers: the installer builder and homeowner have all responded positively to our innovative product that delivers on our green without compromise promise.
Given the weaker than anticipated performance of the U.S.
market we now believe that revenue growth in 2011 as a whole will be in the high single digits representing significant growth in the second half versus 2010.
This will be driven by higher sales volumes and increased selling prices.
As we discussed on the first quarter call we believe that we will experience higher sales volumes in the second half of the year driven by seasonality of housing activity modest improvement in overall housing starts additional volume from our supply position with Masco and higher retail activity.
We have also taken actions across several product lines to increase prices.
In addition we anticipate lower costs in the second half arising from actions we have taken to reduce headcount and to rationalize unprofitable product lines as well as the completion of the conversion of our residential product line to EcoTouch.
These factors continue to give us confidence that we will be profitable in Insulation for the second half as a whole.
In addition we are pleased to announce the acquisitions of FiberTEK's insulation facilities in the United States for $84 million in cash and $25 million in deferred payments.
Purchasing these 2 facilities will allow us to offset capital expenditures that were planned in the 2012 to 2014 timeframe.
While we are excited about the contribution that these acquisitions will have on our results in the future we do not foresee a material impact from them in 2011.
As I remind you on each of our quarterly calls this is a great business in a well-structured industry.
Owens Corning's PINK insulation is a powerful and enduring brand.
We are the clear market leader well positioned to return to historical levels of performance when demand improves as we know it will.
Next Slide 10 provides an overview of our Composites segment.
Composites sales in the second quarter 2011 were $529 million or 8% higher than the same period in 2010.
This increase was primarily the result of higher selling prices and the impact of favorable foreign exchange rates during 2011 compared to the same period in 2010.
Sales volumes were relatively flat as continued growth in most markets around the world was offset by weakness in the Chinese wind market.
The Chinese wind market is forecasted to grow significantly in line with the Chinese government's 5-year plan and represents about 10% of the overall Chinese glass fiber reinforcements market.
Owens Corning is the leading supplier of glass fiber reinforcements to Chinese wind.
As Mike commented there is excess inventory in the supply chain as wind turbine installations have exceeded what was connected to the grid.
As a result while we expect connected installed capacity to continue to grow in 2011 and beyond the inventory effect will cause a correction in glass fiber demand of about 1/3 in 2011.
We have responded to this by growing our business in non-wind applications in China significantly and we continue to expect strong growth in our Chinese Reinforcements business in the future.
However the correction has set our overall Chinese growth plans back by about 12 to 18 months against what we had anticipated at the beginning of the year.
This impact does not affect our long-term growth outlook for the overall global Reinforcements market.
Second quarter 2011 EBIT was more than 30% ahead of the second quarter 2010.
Composites achieved 10% EBIT margins and delivered $55 million in EBIT driven by the improved manufacturing productivity and increased selling prices that more than offset inflation.
We have made good progress on both our Russia and Mexico expansions which we expect to positively contribute to our results in 2012.
For the third quarter 2011 we anticipate the Composites revenue and EBIT will be sequentially flat with second quarter.
Despite weaker demand in the Chinese wind market and continued inflation we are pleased with our full year outlook to improve EBIT by about 25% over 2010 with revenue growth of 8% to 9%.
We have a few additional items to cover.
And now on to Slide 11.
We continue to focus on cash generation and maintaining an investment-grade balance sheet.
In addition to our cash on hand and cash generated we have access to an $800 million senior revolving credit facility which in July we refinanced to take advantage of lower interest rates and to extend the maturity to 2016.
We repurchased 1.2 million shares of our stock for about $43 million during the second quarter and as of June 30 6.5 million shares or 5% of the company's outstanding remain available for repurchase.
We expect to complete the current authorization by the end of 2012.
This represents a return of capital to our shareholders that reflects our strong outlook for earnings and free cash flow generation.
We believe that our $2.3 billion tax NOL asset has delivered cash tax savings of about $140 million for the period 2009 to 2010.
These ongoing savings demonstrate the value of the NOL.
Due to our favorable tax position we expect to incur less than $30 million in cash taxes in 2011.
We project that our effective book tax rate for the year will be 28% but some fluctuation quarter-to-quarter based on a blend of our U.S.
and non-U.S.
operations.
The results for the second quarter 2011 demonstrate the resiliency of our portfolio.
In our Roofing business we anticipate we will deliver another strong year of performance supported by the storm-related demand and price actions we have taken to offset inflation.
We believe that full year EBIT in our Composites business will grow by about 25% over 2010.
Actions that we have taken in our Insulation business will contribute to this business making money in the second half of 2011.
This performance gives us confidence that adjusted EBIT for 2011 will be $500 million or more which translates to growth in adjusted earnings per share of over 40% from last year.
In addition this keeps us on track to deliver on our goals of reaching $1 billion or more of EBITDA in 2013 and $1 billion of cumulative free cash flow over the period from 2011 to 2013.
With that Mike back to you for some further comments on our outlook before we turn to Q&amp;A.
Thank you Duncan.
In summarizing the quarter I want to again emphasize how pleased we are to have delivered strong performance while market conditions remain challenging for many of our businesses.
And as we embark on the second half of the year we continue to see positive development for each of over 3 primary businesses.
In our first quarter call we acknowledged that we had expected a bit of a slow start to the year with momentum building in the second quarter that should carry into the second half.
I've been pleased with our execution as we progress against the broad agenda in all of our businesses.
Our markets as always have drawn us a mix of positive and negative surprises versus our expectations coming into the year.
The level of storm activity in the first half was unexpected and has supported a solid volume outlook for Roofing for the second half.
On the negative side asphalt cost increases and other inflation have been more than we had planned the China wind market has hurt Composites and the U.S.
new construction market has continued to underperform virtually every forecast that was made 7 months ago.
On balance we are pleased to benefit from the diversity of market opportunity that Owens Corning enjoys.
The result of our first half performance and second half expectations supports our upgraded guidance of $500 million or more in adjusted EBIT.
Our upgraded outlook for 2011 brings us closer to our goals of achieving $1 billion or more of EBITDA in 2013.
On our first quarter conference call we acknowledged that our 2011 plan required strong financial results in the second quarter.
I'm pleased that our team has executed on this imperative and created important momentum for the second half.
As a result we continue to see exciting growth opportunities for Owens Corning in 2011 and beyond.
At this time I will turn it back to Michael who will lead us into the Q&amp;A session.
Michael? Thank you Mike.
Deana we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question will come from the line of Garik Shmois Longbow Research.
First question is on Composites and your guidance.
Is the estimate revision today is that all coming from what you're seeing the Chinese wind market or is there some cautious approach also baked in given some of the weaker macro indicators out there? Good question.
I think substantially the change in our guidance in Composites is really related to China wind.
We brought a facility online this year in China in the first quarter.
And we had really expected that that was going to power a lot of operating leverage in the Asia region and also would therefore give us some incremental capacity and operating leverage back in the Americas and Europe.
That strategy has backed up on us a little bit because we haven't seen the demand levels for wind in China.
So we haven't gotten that leverage.
I'd characterize the other markets as being a little bit mixed.
I think the North American market is probably a little bit stronger than we expected coming into the year.
Don't forget that roofing and roofing mat is a significant composite application one of the largest composite applications in the world.
So our Composites business in the Americas has been quite strong.
I think our Composites business in Europe has shown nice price progression has shown nice improvement in terms of profitability.
I think we've seen good volume growth there.
Maybe a little bit weaker than what we had hoped coming into the year.
And we're still really I think trying to sort out how much of that might be automotive build schedule and some of the other things that impacted first-half industrial production.
I think we're taking a little bit of a cautious approach into the second half.
We are not assuming a big turnaround in industrial production or big economic growth driven by automotive.
But we certainly think there are some things that would cause the second half of the year to be a bit more positive for Composites in some of our core markets in the Americas and Western Europe.
Okay.
And you are bringing some Composites capacity on -- over the next 12 to 18 months.
Just wondering if you could talk about how confident you are that the market will be able to absorb the capacity given the uncertain macro environment? Yes our strategy in Composites and really I think our strategy as a company is we tend to like to build capacity in a market for that market.
So we're not big believers of exporting lots of products across oceans.
So when we look at a capacity expansion we tend to be looking to match that capacity to growth we see in that market.
And I think our China investment is indicative of that.
The next piece of capacity we have coming online is in Russia.
That's not a sizable increase in capacity because that's really a reconfiguration and rebuild of an existing facility to make it very low cost and high quality.
So that will probably happen very early next year.
And I think the timing of that's not tremendously impacted by the market because we're getting a lot of productivity in cost reduction as we reconfigure that facility.
The next piece of capacity that we've announced is Mexico.
That would be primarily in a product line called rovings to serve the North American market.
We think we've got a cost position there that we can export around the world to load that facility if we need to.
And generally that's a product line that we do have some opportunity today to meet some demand.
So I think at this point we would say we haven't seen anything that causes us to believe we needed to slow down or amend our plans to bring capacity online.
But I think as you've seen -- as you listen to these call's over the years we evaluate that as we go and if we see some change that that's a knob to turn we'll turn that knob.
The next question will come from the line of Mike Rehaut JP Morgan.
First question just on -- the Roofing segment continue to execute well and as you said benefiting from the storm activity.
Just wanted to get a sense -- you had mentioned several prices increases through -- I think you said and I just wanted some clarification here that 3 price increases have already been implemented and realized and there's a fourth one that is going to be put into motion plus or minus right around current timeframe.
And also the comment about margins expanding even though it's almost a similar beta are we talking sequentially or year-over-year or -- I would think that it would be both but just wanted to make sure on that.
Okay let me talk first a little bit about pricing activities in the Roofing business and then I'll talk -- turn it over to Duncan to talk a little bit about asphalt costs.
We have had and executed 3 pricing actions this year.
There was one in the first quarter that was really effective kind of at the end of the first quarter.
There was one that was announced late first quarter which was effective kind of middle of second.
And then there was another one announced in the second quarter that was really effective kind of at the end of the second quarter.
So we've had 3 actions.
I think coming into the year we knew that we had exited the year with some margin compression.
I think we talked about that a lot on our fourth quarter call and also our first quarter call.
We expressed confidence that we thought we could take price action to get margins back to where we have grown accustomed to seeing them over the course of the last 2 or 3 years.
I think the price actions that we had put in place which got us to 22% margins here in the second quarter probably would have widened our margins out a bit more had we not seen pretty aggressive asphalt cost inflation.
And as a result we do have another price increase that was recently announced which will happen kind of mid- to late-third quarter.
And we'll see as the quarter evolves what impact that has on margin rates.
I think the news on that is not so much on the price side where I've been really happy with our execution and really I think pricing has played out about how we expected it to play coming into the year.
But we have seen a little bit more asphalt cost inflation and that's been a bit more persistent than what you might expect based on oil prices.
And I'm going to let Duncan comment on that for a second.
Duncan? Thanks Mike.
Yes I mean as you'd note early in the year crude ran up quite significantly and asphalt tends to follow crude and did so.
And so quite a lot of asphalt inflation I think coming in the sort of in the first quarter and the beginning of the second quarter.
And you'll notice we have executed several price increases on the back of that.
And I think price -- asphalt prices probably stabilized a little bit towards the end of the second quarter but coming into the end of June maybe into July we have seen some asphalt price inflation.
It's not untypical at this time of the year to see asphalt go up a little given the seasonality the paving season but it has decoupled a little bit from crude oil which really hasn't moved very much at all recently.
So we have seen some asphalt inflation maybe also driven by some refinery turnarounds in the U.S.
So we have seen some persistence inflation as Mike talked about coming into the third quarter.
And as Mike also noted we have announced a price increase would effect in September.
And Mike I think specifically to your question about third quarter margins I think Duncan's comments were sequential relative to the second quarter.
I don't think we gave any guidance on where we thought margins would be relative to third quarter of last year.
Right.
Appreciate that.
The second question on Composites and I appreciate the detail with regards to what's going in China but you had mentioned that a big part of this was due to some inventory that I guess had built up and the reduction of that kind of holding up production near term or perhaps even over the next 12 to 18 months.
But I guess kind of a 2-part question: number one as compared to maybe the inventory reduction I was wondering if you could comment about the growth in the overall wind market.
If you kind of take out the channel issues or the supply-chain issues or inventory reduction how is the overall market still fairing and what your outlook is for 2011 and 2012? And the size of the wind market I think you had historically said that the wind energy market is roughly 15% of Composites demand if that's still the case or -- and if that's on an industry level in a company specific level so -- apologize for all the subsets of questions but...
Okay.
I think I can address virtually all of that.
So let me just make some comments about wind broadly.
I mean wind continues to be a very exciting market for our Composites business and one that we see growth over the coming decade.
It's a different theme as you go to the different regions of the world.
So if you look back 2 or 3 years I mean China was not a particularly big player in wind.
Probably 3 4 years ago they put up less than 5 gigawatts of total wind capacity.
Last year they probably put up between 15 million and 20 million gigawatts of capacity.
So you can see they've moved on to the global stage as the leading market for wind.
I think the challenge that we saw is the process of putting wind power to the grid is: You have to erect the tower you have to hang a turbine you have to put on the blade set and then you have to connect it.
And while there was a lot of towers turbines and blade sets put up last year not enough of it was connected.
The prior Chinese 5-year plan was very focused on the construction of wind energy.
The 5-year plan that took effect at the beginning of this year is focused on wind energy generation which means there's a lot more emphasis on getting turbines producing to the grid than there are building turbines.
Now over the long term if you want to increase the amount of energy you produce from wind you've got to build towers build turbines hang blades and connect to the grid.
So we know that we're in a short-term transition as this inventory or backlog of constructed turbines gets put to the grid.
And it's a sizable amount.
So that's what we're seeing in China but we would expect China to grow and continue to get into the range of 15 million to 20 million gigawatts per year of turbines both erected and connected to the grid when this comes back into the balance making it the largest wind power market in the world and a market where we certainly have a leading position.
Of all of our Composites businesses in the world our China business is probably more dependent on wind than our other businesses not because we don't see tremendous opportunity in the non-wind business in China but because wind has grown so quickly it's really consumed our capacity in region.
And we've been very devoted to making sure that we keep our suppliers -- our customers in supply.
And as a result we haven't had a lot of available capacity to develop non-wind.
So I think what you'll see and I think Duncan talked about it -- I talked about it we'll see a little bit of a slowdown in the growth of wind with a really good recovery over the next 4 or 5 years.
And I think you'll see an opportunity for us to continue to expand our opportunity in some of the non-wind applications in China which are also sizable.
Remember China is the largest wind -- the largest composite market in the world.
We continue to be bullish though also on Western Europe on India on Brazil on the Americas.
The wind market continues to progress well in those markets.
There's lots of talk of offshore wind development today in Europe because of Europe's historical dependence on nuclear power and some of the changes in kind of policy winds that are coming out of the Fukushima accident.
You're seeing at least in the near term continued investment tax credits and production tax credits in the U.S.
and Canada driving renewable developments in this region.
So we have a nice global footprint.
We like the development of wind also in India.
We think that's going to be another good market for us.
So it's a market we will continue to focus sizable resources on and I think we see great health in the 5-year plan for the China wind market but we have to get through this period where some of the stuff that was built need to get connected.
And I think that's going to be the theme probably for the next 12 months 18 months which is where we gave our guidance today.
So just to round that out the wind application in general is that -- I think you talked about that being a 15% or so -- that that is about 15% of your overall Composites business.
Is that -- how would that change now with -- is that the case and how do you think about that in terms of that market's overall global growth in 2011 2012? Yes Mike I think our estimates historically have been that wind is closer to 10% of the overall Composites Mark.
And I think we made that estimate in 2008 at our Investor Day.
And I don't know that we've updated that estimate.
Wind has probably been growing faster than other markets in China and China has been the fastest growing market in the world.
So I think it stands to reason that it at least kept up or maybe increased its importance to the global composites industry up to this year.
We're now seeing that the China wind market in terms of glass shipments could be down about 1/3 from last year.
So my guess is we're probably still bouncing around that 10% number.
If I were to conjecture about the next 5 years I certainly don't see anything that would cause me to believe that wind in total grows more slowly than the composites market so it certainly at least keeps up in terms of being that important to the Composites market if not accelerates a bit and becomes a bigger portion of the overall mix.
And the next question will come from the line of Josh Levin Citigroup.
I want to ask about the FiberTEK acquisition.
When you think about sort of the cost curve in the insulation industry in terms of low-cost producers high-cost producers where does FiberTEK fit on that curve? Yes it's a great question Josh and I appreciate the opportunity to get to talk a little bit about FiberTEK.
I'm going to go product-line specific and talk a little bit about this loosefill product line and how these assets fit in in terms of where they are on the cost and production curve.
I talked about 3 reasons why loosefill has been a bit of a bright spot.
Building codes tend to favor increased insulation in the attic.
That's a blown-in application.
We now have a product with our PROPINK that you can blow attics in the reinsulation market but you can also now blow in walls.
So you can retrofit the insulation in walls using our insulation product which is very good without tearing off the dry wall which is obviously an important thing if you're trying to retrofit your home.
And then we've known cellulose has continued to have some position in the blown-in market and we think we've got a cost position and a quality position that allows us to continue to make slow but steady progress against cellulose.
So we like the category.
We have a couple configurations in Owens Corning of how we make this product.
We have a standalone dedicated facility which I would say is probably one of the leanest and best performing facilities in our entire company across really all of our product lines.
And then we have a couple of loosefill lines that reside inside large-scale insulation plants that also make baths.
We would've had 3 potential options on how we would have expanded our capacity in loosefill to address the growth opportunity we see.
One would have been to either convert or build new lines in the existing bath facilities.
That tends to be kind of a low capital cost solution but not quite as low an operating cost solution because you're in an existing facility that's fairly complex.
We could build a greenfield which would be a little bit more capital and probably lower operating costs similar to our dedicated facility which we like a lot.
Or we could go out in the industry and try to buy existing assets that our technology would be able to fit in very easily and our technology can be retrofit.
And we think what we're going to end up with is a lower capital cost solution than building dedicated Greenfield assets.
We think we're going to end up with a lower cost solution than building assets in our existing larger-scale more complex insulation facilities.
And we certainly have a footprint here that allows us to put our PROPINK insulation technology into these facilities and get a product that's at the quality level and the cost level of our dedicated facilities.
So we think we've kind of solved all those pieces.
We've got a nice capital cost solution with very good operating cost solution and we've got some customers.
So with this because we're buying an existing business we're acquiring not only the operating assets but their customer base some of whom we currently do fair amount of business with and this is a chance for us to broaden and deepen our relationship.
And some of whom we believe will be new customers to Owens Corning which will create an opportunity for us to grow not just our Loosefill business but our EcoTouch line of bath products.
Okay.
My second question is about share buybacks.
The stock is off quite a bit but you're going to earn more money and generate more cash this year than you had originally thought so has your thinking about the timing and magnitude of potential buybacks changed? Josh it's Duncan.
I'll take one.
So as we've always indicated we think about stock buybacks in terms of applications of free cash flow and how our outlook for free cash flow looks.
And as you've indicated we've got an outlook to free cash flow.
Certainly we've indicated over of period of '11 to '13 we could generate $1 billion of free cash flow.
And we said that we'll complete the authorization by the end of 2012 reflecting that strong free cash flow generation in the second quarter.
[indiscernible] free cash flow that we have and we felt that that was an appropriate way to spend some of our free cash flow.
And I think we would continue to take a look at our outlook for free cash flow over time look at the relative opportunities we have to invest that free cash flow including acquisitions capital investments our own business and repurchasing our own stock and look to complete the authorization as I said in advance of the end of 2012.
And the next question will come from the line of Keith Hughes SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Two questions on Roofing.
One what kind of volume growth did you see in the quarter? And two Mike I wanted to dig into your comments on the storm season perhaps being the best in 15 years.
Couple of years ago had a great storm season with multiple events from hurricanes and hail.
What are you seeing right now that would make that statement? Is it more widespread than it's been reported? Just any sort of color on that would be helpful.
Great.
Let me first start on kind of year-to-date volumes.
I mean year-to-date we haven't actually experienced that much volume growth versus prior year.
I mean if you remember last year we had a pretty good first quarter and we actually had a quite strong second quarter.
So while our second quarter this year was a bit stronger than last year I would say that year-to-date we have not seen dramatic or double-digit type volume growth even though we are saying on this call we think the overall market for the full year will probably be up double digits.
I think our optimism here is we do think the volume we saw in the second quarter carries over whereas last year clearly it didn't.
And last year I think the optimism in the market was more built off of the first-time homebuyer tax credit a belief that the economy was recovering that we would start to see people back investing in their homes that home prices had stopped falling.
And I think as we look back in hindsight all of that in fact turned out to not be true.
And when we got into the second half of last year the market got kind of quiet for reroof demand which was where the optimism last year had driven market demand and we backed up and had a volume miss in the third quarter last year.
I think this year we're seeing specific -- and I wouldn't say isolated because it's fairly widespread.
We're seeing significant sizable metropolitan areas where there were both hailstorms tornadoes and high-wind-type storms in the second quarter.
And there's weather services that report on this.
I think what was very different about the first half of this year was the size and severity of some of these hail and high windstorms and that they happened in major metropolitan areas.
So I think we all saw the devastation of places like Joplin and Tuscaloosa those made the front cover of the paper but we've seen lots and lots of hail damage in places like Dallas Charlotte Pittsburgh and others.
So there's been pretty widespread metropolitan areas that have gotten hit with severe weather.
And it's our best assessment of that today that that would create storm-related demand in the industry that probably powers double-digit overall growth in industry demand this year.
Obviously we would hope to achieve at least our share of that demand growth which if you put that into kind of the outlook says we end up with a sizably better third quarter in terms of volumes than what we saw last year.
And that gives us some optimism for the second half of the year.
Inc.</strong> So the second quarter the 13% growth that was all price in Roofing? No my comments were really related to the first half.
So if you look at the first quarter of this year our volumes were a little bit behind last year.
Second quarter this year our volumes were a little bit ahead.
But in total our volumes for the first half while they're a little bit ahead of last year is not really remarkably ahead of last year.
We had reasonable volume growth in the second quarter but just at this point in the year we're not a lot ahead of last year in terms of volume.
And the next question will come from the line of Dennis McGill Zelman.
Mike I just was hoping you could maybe dig in a little bit more on the Composites.
I know you spent a lot of time on it but just trying to understand the magnitude of wind energy to the overall business because some of the numbers that you've given us is 1/3 of composites is Asia and that's not all China and somewhere in the 15% range is wind and it's off 30% for the year.
Struggling to get to much more than call it a 1- or 2-point impact in volume yet it's a $30-million or $25-million impact on the EBIT line.
So just trying to understand how that kind of rolls through.
I know you said that some of that is the impact on -- the derivative impact of leverage to the other plans.
But it just seems like a big change in profits for a small change in volume.
I'm trying to figure out what I'm missing.
And then in conjunction with that I think I've heard you talk in the past about sort of a delay in getting some of the wind hooked up to the grid in China.
So what happened over the last 3 months that leads you to push up the recovery 12 to 18 months which kind of sounds like a bit of a shock from a magnitude standpoint.
And maybe those 2 things go together I'm not sure.
Okay.
I think your math isn't far from wrong from so -- I mean far from right.
The China wind market which we would say is probably in that 10% to 15% range of the overall China market was a much higher percent of our business.
So we were much more wind-dominant in China.
And so obviously the effect of that is going to be more pronounced on us.
And it was a significant area of operating leverage for us in the business this year.
So coming into the year -- we talked on a number of calls about how we were really happy with the fact that we had configured a facility in China to meet growing demand that allowed us to stop importing into China which we had been doing eliminate some of those supply lines and get our facility over there loaded.
That is what has not happened and the operating leverage in a new facility is very very high.
So one of the reasons why we've said we believe we can grow our Composites business to the mid-teens in terms of operating margins over the course of the next 3 to 5 years is as you bring new facilities on on the margin they're quite accretive to your operating rates and they're quite accretive to your operating margins.
We're just not getting that accretion right now from China.
And that combined with some inflation which is a little bit higher than what we expected pricing has been reasonably good inflation's eating up a bit of operating margin and then the lack of that leverage is a measurable and significant multimillion dollar impact to 2011 results.
When we say we've pushed it back 12 18 months I said that the amount of wind energy being connected to the grid is probably still in that 15 gigawatt level in China today.
If we were building kind of at the 15 to 20 gigawatt level in 2010 but it wasn't getting connected and then to correct that out we maybe need to go and spend a year building 10 or less in order to absorb some of that inventory it's going to take a couple of years to ramp back up to where shipments were last year where we were meeting a construction build of 15 to 20 gigawatts.
Now the 5-year plan for China would certainly say that China is going to build and connect 15 to 20 gigawatts a year over the next 5 years.
So it's really a timing issue and it just looks like it's 1 year 1.5 years before all this works through and we get back onto the old curve.
We're still very very bullish on the China wind market.
So does that change the trajectory of how we should think about margins gain to a mid-teen level in this business? Well I mean -- so on the margin you have one plant in one region that was going to give us a bunch of operating leverage which is probably 1 year behind.
So I think if you look at the next 4 years and you say it takes us 1 year to get that or 1.5 years to get that to where we wanted it to it is therefore maybe 1 year or 1.5 years later before we have an opportunity to put a second investment into China which is potentially the next big tranche of operating leverage there.
So I think it does delay that specific story.
I don't think it changes the trajectory of the operating margin performance for the business.
It just takes that one component which was one of the building blocks of how we build there and kind of pushes that out of here.
And the last question will come from the line of Bob Wetenhall RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> My question's for Duncan.
You're -- I'm kind of looking to bridge into $60 million.
And it looks like you're increasing your EBIT by $25 million up to $500 million and you're also increasing corporate spending by incremental $10 million so that would get me to a cumulative $35 million.
And then just picking up on your growth in the Composites segment EBIT it looks like it's growing from a base of $175 million in 2011 to $220 million in the current year as opposed to $245 million.
So that's a another $25 million in lost EBIT.
So when I add those up I'm trying to figure out where the extra $60 million in profitability is coming from.
Is that just better performance in Roofing and a smaller loss in Insulation in the back half of the year? Yes I mean we haven't provided -- we've provided -- the guidance we've provided is that we think Composites will do about 25% improved EBIT year-over-year.
We have said $75 million so there's a delta there.
We said that corporate expenses will be in the $90 million to $100 million range.
We had said in the $80 million to $90 million range and that was driven kind of by our performance and our stock price in the first half of the year so there's a delta there.
And we would expect the balance to get -- kind of get to increase our guidance from $475 million to $500 million or more to come from roofing therefore and insulation.
So I think you would be correct in assuming that that's where those 2 come from.
We said that insulation will be profitable in the second half of the year.
We've kind of maintained that point of view.
We haven't provided specific guidance change this time I don't think and so therefore -- we've also said that we do think we'll see a very strong demand year from storms this year.
Obviously long-term demand is quite a lot higher than we're seeing this year but short-term is going to be quite a big uptick in Roofing demand year-over-year.
Probably earlier in the year we had not seen because it is kind of storm-related so I think that certainly some upgrade in our view of how profitable our Roofing business would be along with our confidence and 20% EBIT margins for the year.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Sorry? That makes sense to you? LLC</strong> Yes that does.
So it's really those 2 segments with the better half in Roofing driving that uptick in EBIT for the offsets.
In the -- looking into 2012 it seems like you have better market share position in insulation and you're changing the profile of the business as well in terms of products.
What's your comfort level in terms of saying that could be a breakeven business in 2012 or at least a lose-less money? I'll just make a couple of comments and then maybe Mike can make a comment.
We haven't provided any guidance 2012 at this stage and it's not our practice to.
So we have indicated in our Investor Day last year at that time how we foresaw insulation evolving over the period '11 to '13 in terms of achieving 50% off of operating leverage on top line that was growing maybe around about 10%.
So that sort of -- that framework was what we laid out at Investor Day last year.
But we have not provided any specific guidance about Insulation for 2012.
Mike? Yes I mean I think the 2 things we've said consistently about Insulation is kind of in a flat new construction environment it would be our goal to see the business continue to improve on a comparable basis and that we should continue to find actions and take actions that would cause it to be better in a flat environment.
And then certainly one of the things that we've laid out is the last time we broke even in that business for a full year we were operating at 1-million-plus housing starts on a lagged basis.
We do think we've done some things to lower our breakeven point and we'd like to be profitable on a full-year basis at a lower number.
But we haven't really pegged to a specific target in terms of achieving that goal.
But I think both of those are in the realm of continuous improvement and getting the business profitable at significantly lower levels of demand than where we were the last time we made money.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And one final question away from China wind business.
How is the pricing environment for Composites outside of Asia? Is it getting more favorable? Yes it's generally been pretty favorable.
So I'd go all the way back to the economic crisis that we saw late '08 and early '09 we saw a sizable but single-digit price loss through the couple quarters when volumes were dropping.
And really since the middle of '09 that business has had a nice ability to recover its inflation.
It's had some reasonable pricing power.
It's had the ability to increase prices.
Now the nature of the sale is different and I talk about this on each call.
We tend to be working with our customers who are processing our product and oftentimes quoting into contracts or quoting into kind of fixed-priced-type deals so price stability is very important and we tend to move our prices less often in Composites unlike Roofing where we'll do it through a price increase letter [ph] it tends to be more of an annual-negotiation type environment.
There are some distribution markets where that's not true but through the course of our negotiations I think we've been able to get good value for our product and be able to move back to reasonably good levels of profitability in the business.
Very good.
Thank you for joining us for today's call.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike who has a few closing remarks.
Well thank you Michael.
First again always thank you for your interest in our company and we appreciate your engagement on these calls.
This is as we view it one of the primary ways that we have to communicate with our investors and your enthusiasm and continued and ongoing interest in our company allows us to tell the story.
We think it's a great story.
Coming out of the first quarter we had only gotten our way through about 10% or 15% of our overall EBIT goal for the year and expressed a fair amount of confidence in that call that we were on track.
And I think the market digested that news very effectively and had high expectations for us coming into this quarter that we would show improvement.
We think we've delivered on those expectations and I think more importantly saw as many things in this quarter that gave us confidence about the latter half of the year as things that we saw that might have reduced our outlook.
So as always I think you've got a management team here that's going to deal with the facts on the ground and try to respond to them.
We have seen some things through the first half of this year and I think we talked about it here with China wind that were not favorable but at the same time we've seen some other things that were favorable and in particular Roofing volumes and net-net we've been able to increase our guidance because we've been able to take the favorables and turn them into more performance and we've been able to offset some of the unfavorables with additional actions and cost actions.
The company we continue to believe is poised to deliver great results in 2011 and has impressive growth opportunities as we see our businesses rounding the form and some improvement in some of our end-use markets we still operate well below their potential.
So we're right where we had hoped to be at this point in the year.
We've got pretty good outlook and strong plans for the second half of the year and we're really looking forward to delivering another successful year for Owens Corning.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jineada and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Jineada.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us for today's conference call and review of our business results for the third quarter 2011.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Duncan Palmer Chief Financial Officer.
[Operator Instructions] Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-Q that detailed our results for the quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the third quarter 2011.
We will refer to these slides during the call.
You can access these slides at owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investors section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2.
Before we begin we offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
Second these statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.
This presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP are found within the financial tables of our earning release.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by our CFO Duncan Palmer.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our third quarter 2011 results.
I'm pleased to report that Owens Corning delivered record earnings performance in the third quarter.
Owens Corning continues to benefit from strong execution and a resilient portfolio of market-leading businesses.
We are on track to deliver another year of significant earnings growth.
Net sales for the quarter totaled $1.5 billion a 22% increase over the third quarter of 2010.
Third quarter EBIT of $177 million was nearly double that of the same period last year.
Third quarter adjusted net earnings performance of $124 million represents a historic high for our company.
And all 3 of our businesses increased both revenue and EBIT during the quarter contributing to both top and bottom line growth.
Before Duncan provides a more detailed review of our quarterly results I will comment on how we were performing relative to the expectations we have previously shared with you.
We will start with our guidance.
We began the year expecting full year EBIT of $475 million.
As you may recall we knew that we had a back-end loaded year when we gave this guidance.
We are very pleased to see the momentum that has built across Owens Corning over the last 2 quarters.
Last quarter we raised this guidance to $500 million based on our view that the volume outlook across our businesses at that time.
Our current estimate for the year is EBIT in the range of $450 million to $490 million consistent with our original guidance.
There are 2 market-based reasons for this provided outlook: First we now expect some of the storm-related demand in Roofing to carry over into 2012.
Last quarter we reported that storm-related volume was approaching the highest level we have seen in 15 years.
I spent time with our Roofing customers in the quarter and I continue to feel comfortable that our volume expectations are supported by market feedback.
We currently believe that we will see [Audio Gap] previously expected as a portion of this demand will carry over into the early part of 2012 which will serve to sustain momentum in our Roofing business into next year.
Secondly we now have a moderated view of growth in the Composites market in 2011.
Third quarter volumes were up compared with the same period last year but down slightly from the second quarter.
In the quarter we believe that industrial production growth expectations moderated and that some customers are taking a more cautious view towards future growth expectations resulting in some destocking in this market.
Overall Composites volumes remain stable.
Based on the midpoint of our EBIT outlook we expect adjusted earnings per share of nearly 40% for the second consecutive year.
This is consistent with the EPS growth estimate we provided in the second quarter.
Now I would like to review how we are performing relative to the other expectations we set for 2011.
First we said that we would continue our progress in creating an injury-free workplace.
After 9 months our rate of injuries has improved by 25% over our full year 2010 performance.
This positions us well for a 10th consecutive year of safety improvement.
We said that Roofing EBIT margins of 20% were achievable for a third consecutive year.
Strong momentum in the second quarter continued into the third as the business delivered EBIT of $156 million and EBIT margins of 24% and 21% margins on a year-to-date basis.
We remain focused on growth and profitability and are confident in achieving our 20% margin goal for the year.
We said that Insulation would narrow its losses and embark on a measured path to recovery in 2011.
Further to this objective on our last call we said that we believe that this business could return to profitability in the second half of 2011.
The business narrowed its losses in the third quarter and continues to make progress driven by strong execution of a broad-based agenda.
We've made tremendous progress in this segment and we expect to be profitable in the fourth quarter.
At present it's tough to tell whether we will have enough volume between now and year end to achieve our goal of second half profitability.
Regardless our financial performance for Insulation in the second half will show a dramatic improvement over the same period in 2010 when we lost $40 million.
We have confidence that we have Insulation moving strongly in the right direction as we prepare for 2012.
Finally last quarter we said that we expected Composites to deliver high single-digit revenue growth and EBIT growth of about 25% this year.
During the quarter Composites grew EBIT by 14% compared with the same period last year and the business remains on track for double-digit EBIT margins for the year.
We now see revenue growth in the mid-single digits contributing to another good year of operating performance in this business.
We believe the performance across all of our businesses demonstrates our strategic flexibility and the power of a diverse portfolio that provides multiple paths to achieving our 2013 goals.
Roofing is on track for a third consecutive year of 20% margins.
Strong execution in Insulation has enabled us to position the business to break even at market demands well below those of 2008 when the business was last profitable.
And Composites has now delivered double-digit EBIT margins for 4 consecutive quarters.
Assuming forward progress in U.S.
housing and sustained albeit slow economic growth globally we remain confident in our ability to achieve $1 billion or more of EBITDA in 2013 and $1 billion in cumulative free cash flow from 2011 to 2013.
We took a big step toward this goal in 2010.
We will take another big stride toward this objective in 2011.
And we believe that our current business performance positions us for another year of earnings growth in 2012 as we continue to pursue progress to our 2013 goals.
Duncan will now walk you through the details of our segment performance and other key financial developments in the quarter.
After which I will return with some closing comments prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Duncan? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Before I review key financial data for the third quarter 2011 I would like to start with summarizing our strong financial position.
Our performance for the quarter and our results year-to-date have been excellent with record results in the third quarter which represent year-over-year growth in both sales and EBIT in each of our 3 businesses.
We are on track to deliver a second straight year of growth and adjusted EPS approaching 40%.
Since 2007 our portfolio has performed well in the face of historic market weakness and we have first sustained and then grown earnings while strengthening our balance sheet investing in growth in our businesses and repurchasing 10% of our outstanding shares.
We have an advantaged tax position that has enabled us to save over $200 million in cash taxes over the past 3 years.
It is against this backdrop of achievement that I describe our third quarter financial results.
Let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the third quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's news release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported third quarter 2011 consolidated net sales of $1.5 billion a 22% increase over the same period in 2010 with sales growth across all of our businesses.
Our Roofing business grew 59% our Insulation business grew 16% and our Composites business grew 4% compared with the same period a year ago.
In recent years we have excluded items that were unrepresentative of our ongoing operations to arrive at adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparisons.
We believe that this measure is helpful to investors for comparing our results from period-to-period.
In 2011 we have not had any adjusting items to our reported earnings before interest and taxes.
EBIT for the third quarter of 2011 was $177 million an increase of nearly 100% over the adjusted EBIT of $90 million in the same period in 2010.
These results demonstrate the ongoing capability of our portfolio of businesses to deliver great results despite continued market headwinds.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter of 2011 were $110 million or $0.90 per diluted share compared to adjusted earnings in the same period in 2010 of $44 million or $0.35 per diluted share.
As a result of tax planning and the geographic mix of our operations our effective tax rate was 15% in the third quarter of 2011 and 22% for the first 9 months of the year.
We now expect that our effective tax rate will be 25% or less for 2011 lower than our prior estimate of 28%.
We have therefore reflected the 25% effective tax rate in our adjusted earnings.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $78 million.
We project that full year 2011 depreciation and amortization expense will be about $330 million.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $93 million with an anticipated full year capital spending of approximately $400 million as we continue to invest in our businesses to create shareholder value.
Now if you turn to Slide 6 I will review our adjusted EBIT performance comparing third quarter 2011 with the same period a year ago.
EBIT in the third quarter of 2011 was $177 million an increase of $87 million from the same period in 2010.
Roofing contributed additional EBIT of $65 million on strong shingle volumes with operating margins of 24%.
Insulation contributed additional EBIT of $6 million due to good commercial execution manufacturing productivity and other cost reductions.
Composites contributed additional EBIT of $6 million as the business continued to demonstrate momentum in reducing costs in manufacturing.
Finally corporate expenses and other contributed an additional $10 million in EBIT primarily due to lower stock-based compensation.
In addition the third quarter in 2010 include a $6 million in EBIT losses related to the masonry products business which was divested in December 2010.
We expect general corporate expenses for the full year 2011 to be between $80 million and $90 million.
This is a $10 million reduction from the range that we previously provided.
With that review of the key financial highlights I now ask you to turn to Slide 7 where we have a more detailed review of our segments starting with Building Materials.
In the third quarter Building Materials net sales were $1 billion an impressive 36% increase over the prior year reflecting increased sales in both Roofing and Insulation.
Building Materials delivered $144 million in EBIT in the third quarter of 2011 an increase of over 100% compared with 2010.
The following 2 slides present the results in more detail by highlighting the 2 businesses within our Building Materials segment.
Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter was $644 million a 59% increase compared with the same period a year ago.
Strong volumes continued from the second quarter supported by storm demand.
As Mike noted the storm-related demand for roofing shingles this year is one of the highest seen in recent years and we expect that the year-over-year growth rate in the U.S.
roofing shingle market in 2011 will be in the low teens.
EBIT in the quarter was $156 million which takes our year-to-date EBIT margins to 21% for the business.
Based on our market analysis and discussions with our customers we believe that some of the storm demand which we had expected to materialize in the second half of 2011 will now carry over into the early part of 2012.
In addition normal seasonal inventory reductions are occurring in some parts of the market.
Roofing is positioned for a strong 2011 and even with this modest revision in expected demand we still expect EBIT margins of 20% for the full year.
Now Slide 9 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
Net sales in Insulation of $365 million in the third quarter were up 16% from the same period a year ago primarily reflecting higher sales volumes as a result of strong commercial execution in the marketplace.
The business lost money in the third quarter of 2011 in line with our expectations.
But losses narrowed significantly from the second quarter of 2011 as the business demonstrated operating leverage greater than 50% on higher sequential quarterly sales.
The business is on track to return to profitability at a significantly lower breakeven level of market demand.
We made good progress converting the acquired FiberTEK assets to expand our Louisville insulation production capacity.
We expect to see continued strong operating leverage on higher sequential sales in the fourth quarter of 2011 and expect to be profitable in the fourth quarter for the first time in 3 years.
As Mike commented previously it is difficult to tell whether we will have enough volume between now and year end to achieve our goal of second half profitability.
As I remind you on each of our quarterly calls this is a great business in a well-structured industry.
Owens Corning's PINK insulation is a powerful and enduring brand.
We are the clear market leader well positioned to return to historical levels of performance when demand improves as we know it will.
Now I will ask you to turn your attention to Slide 10 for a review of our Composites business.
Our Composites business continued to deliver increases in both sales and profitability.
Net sales for the third quarter of 2011 were $496 million a 4% increase over the same period in 2010.
This increase was the result of higher selling prices volume growth and the impact of favorable exchange rates.
EBIT for the quarter of $49 million was up 49 -- 14% over the same quarter in 2010 due largely to reduced unit costs as we continue to execute well in our manufacturing operations.
This business serves a global mix of markets and customers.
We continue to benefit from a strong market position in the Americas.
We also enjoy a strong market position in Europe although we are more cautious about the market outlook in this region.
We have made good progress in diversifying our markets position in China.
Over many years our sales have grown as a multiple of global industrial production.
Given the outlook for growth in global industrial production we continue to believe that the global glass fiber reinforcements market will grow on average by 5% to 7% per year.
However in 2011 we expect the market growth rate to be below this average primarily as a result of lower growth in industrial production in many markets.
I would like to provide a bit more detail on recent Composites volume trends.
During the third quarter we saw some weakness in volumes in July which persisted into August as we believe that our customers became cautious and reduced inventories in the face of uncertainty in world markets.
During September we saw a return to the level of shipments we had seen at the end of the second quarter.
And in the early fourth quarter we have seen the stability and sales volumes continue.
We have made substantial progress in recent years aligning low-cost assets to serve growing markets and we will continue to invest to enhance our margins and to take advantage of overall market growth.
Furthermore our network of production facilities is well positioned to respond to changes in near-term market conditions.
In the third quarter we reduced production levels of certain of our assets to manage inventories ahead of our start-up of low-cost capacity in Russia and Mexico in 2012.
As a result of our moderated expectations for the market we now expect our sales growth for 2011 to be in the mid-single digits but we expect to grow earnings and sustain double-digit margins for the year.
Let me now turn your attention to Slide 11 other financial matters.
We repurchased 2.8 million shares in the quarter and we have repurchased 4 million shares year-to-date under our previously announced share repurchase program.
3.7 million shares remain available for repurchase under our existing authorization.
As we have said previously we expect to complete the current authorization by the end of 2012.
This represents a return of capital to our shareholders that reflects our strong outlook for earnings and free cash flow generation.
Our $2.3 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
In 2011 our advantaged tax position is expected to deliver a third consecutive year of cash tax savings of about $70 million and our cash taxes paid in 2011 will be below $30 million.
As a result of successful tax planning initiatives we now expect our effective tax rate to be 25% or lower for the full year.
Our long-term effective tax rate is still expected to be the range of 25% to 28%.
The record results of the third quarter reflect continued growth in sales and earnings across our portfolio a strong balance sheet and our ability to execute in our business strategies.
As a result in 2011 we expect to deliver another year of adjusted EPS growth of approaching 40%.
Thank you and I will now turn the call back over to Mike.
Thank you Duncan.
As I've said at the outset of today's call we are pleased to have delivered outstanding earnings performance in the third quarter.
Our teams have been working all year to produce these results and our achievements are the product of focused execution by the people of Owens Corning throughout the world.
As we look to the future we believe that Owens Corning possesses an enviable market position that enables us to capture growth opportunities and win with our customers.
Our strong balance sheet provides strategic flexibility and we have the ability to deploy capital to support growth for global expansions and technology investment.
We possess a resilient portfolio of market-leading businesses to deliver earnings even in volatile markets and stand to benefit from substantial leverage when there's an improvement in the global economy particularly in the U.S.
residential construction market.
We expect 2011 to be another year of significant earnings growth.
We are positioned for continued earnings growth in 2012 as we make further meaningful progress towards the achievement of our 2013 goals for EBITDA and free cash flow performance.
With that I will now turn it back to Thierry who will lead us into the Q&amp;A session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Jineada we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I was hoping to get a little bit more granular on the Composites business and appreciate the detail so far.
In particular if you could kind of update how things are going in Europe and also in China.
Europe I think you kind of talked broadly about composite demand slipping in July August but then rebounding.
Does that apply to Europe as well? And also if you could kind of give us an update on last quarter's comments regarding China wind demand.
Sure.
[Audio Gap] prepared script about what we're seeing in Composites in the quarter let me maybe build on some of those comments.
Let's start with the Americas.
We have a very strong market position in the Americas and we've seen really good performance out of our business in that region.
So generally I would say we've been very pleased with the performance of the Americas region from a demand point of view and also our business there.
Through the quarter we did see demand weakness that began in July continued into August and then some recovery in September.
I think in Duncan's comments he said that was probably most pronounced in Europe.
I think you have 2 things going on here: One is obviously August is typically weak in Europe because of the timing of vacations and holidays in Europe.
And then secondly I think the general concerns or pessimism about industrial production were probably more prevalent in Europe through the late summer months than they were in the U.S.
So we saw what felt like more inventory correction and more demand correction in Europe than in other regions.
I want to stress though that by the end of the quarter as we got into September we were seeing at least our shipment volumes back at June or late second quarter kind of levels.
So we went through a soft patch.
We got back at the end of the quarter and now into October at shipment levels that we think [Audio Gap] versus where we were versus the second quarter.
Now we had expected to see growth so that's not as good as we had thought we would see coming into the year.
But it's certainly a lot better than maybe some of the concerns that we have been hearing in the markets of industrial production and what could happen in industrial production in the world.
We're seeing a fairly stable market out there in absence of growth but certainly a reasonable performance.
In Asia we have seen China continue to grow.
We have done a nice job in the last couple quarters diversifying our market mix in China with some of the available capacity that we now have over there with our Yuhang expansion.
We talked I think at length in the second quarter about what we saw happen in the wind market in China.
I would say that has stabilized at a lower level so the correction in that market from a new production of turbines point of view seems to have stabilized.
And we would expect as that inventory position works its way through that we'll start to see some growth in that market again next year.
So all in all I would say the report card on Composites as we worked our way through the third quarter is we've seen some of the markets that corrected a bit stabilize.
We have seen some growth in the other markets offsetting that.
And then in total our overall volume outlook is stable with expectations of another great year in Composites.
Research Division</strong> That's a great rundown I appreciate that.
Second question or switching to Roofing for a moment.
In the Q it was mentioned that selling prices -- you had price increases in the second and third quarter of 2011 and that prices as a result were higher year-over-year.
So I was wondering if you could kind of A break out what the year-over-year price delta was on average.
And B there's been talk I guess on the Street or among investors about the price increase that I believe was perhaps delayed in September.
And I was wondering if you could just give us an update on current pricing trends and what type of price increases are or are not out there right now.
Sure.
Let me talk a little bit about Roofing I think across the sweep of the full year.
Obviously we entered the year with lower margins than our overall guidance so we had expected that we would come into the year with our operating margins kind of down in the teens.
And that overall we thought we could get to 20% operating margins for the year.
We're 21% year-to-date and 24% in the quarter.
So obviously we've had a productive year in terms of getting some price recovery and improving our margins back to our target rate.
I think we had 3 big price increases in the early part of the year one in April one in May and then one in the early part of July.
Clearly based on our margin performance we had good success with those price increases in terms of both covering the asphalt cost inflation we saw and also getting some margin rehabilitation.
We have seen asphalt costs continue to sustain themselves at fairly high levels which is a little bit uncharacteristic this time of year with both crude oil having traded off some of its peaks as well as heading into winter.
This is a time of year we typically see asphalt prices start to come off.
We haven't seen a lot of that so asphalt prices have been persistently high.
But we haven't seen asphalt going up so we haven't needed additional pricing to sustain our margin performance.
There was a price increase that we had announced for the September time frame.
That price increase was not critical to our outlook in terms of margin performance.
And really it was very important to us in the event that we saw some late fall storm activity.
Very often if we have hurricanes in the fall we will both see a demand spike and also a spike in oil prices because very often those late fall storm activities tear up the Gulf or have an impact on the oil infrastructure which also then impacts our input costs.
So given that we haven't seen hurricane activity in the fall we haven't seen an increase in asphalt prices that would have necessitated the achievement of that price increase.
So at this point we feel comfortable with the pricing environment.
We feel comfortable with our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So you gave a guidance range for EBIT and as you think about your guidance range what are the key sensitivities? What would be the biggest drivers in terms of pushing you to the high end or the low end of that range? Yes I mean great question.
Obviously the biggest driver for us between now and the end of the year is going to be how much of the Roofing volume we see in 2011 and how much of it carries over into 2012 so it's really a timing issue for us.
But Roofing is so profitable.
It's such a great business that any volume we don't see this year would have a more significant impact on our reported EBIT.
And then obviously if we didn't see it this year it would probably cause us to be a bit more optimistic about next year.
So we see that as a timing issue but one that could have a significant impact on reported earnings for the time period of the fourth quarter.
Obviously we talked a bit about Composites volumes between now and year end and also Insulation volumes between now and year end.
I don't think the Insulation story is particularly material to our reported results more material to our guidance.
We had set a goal out there that we would like to see the business make money in the second half.
We obviously in our prepared comments have made it clear we believe we're going to be quite close to that goal.
But at this point it's just too close to call in terms of where volumes will come in between now and year end.
But obviously great progress versus last year where we lost $40 million in the second half.
It's a great conversation to be having that we're within eyesight of how we get that business to break even here in the second half.
Composites I would say we feel it's fairly stable.
I guess I don't really see a big upside or a big downside.
Obviously we could see a little bit of a pickup in growth if we've underestimated how much of this is in inventory adjustment by our customers.
You could potentially see customers needing to come back and restock.
The flip side is that could go on a bit further but I think we're pretty middle of the road in terms of where we believe Composites will finish out the year.
So I would say it's primarily driven between now and year end by how much of the Roofing volumes we'll see this year versus next.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to ask you to maybe elaborate on your thoughts on share buybacks.
I mean given where the stock price is right now when you think about the trade-off between share repurchases or reinvesting the cash in the business I mean do you really think there are better uses of your cash than buying back shares given where the share price is right now? Yes I mean let's talk about our actions on this.
And I think our actions speak for kind of our outlook to the share price.
Since we emerged in 2006 we began buybacks in 2008.
As Duncan said in his comments we bought back almost 10% of the stock over that 4-year period at an average price of about $26.80.
So our average buyback over the period has been right around where our stock is now.
Obviously quite a bit above where our stock bottomed in the middle of October -- or I guess early October.
In the quarter we bought back 2.8 million shares at about $30.
I'll be perfectly candid we had come off of pricing of our stock in the mid- to high-30s all through the second quarter hadn't changed our near term or long-term outlook materially and really felt like when we saw the stock come down to $30 that we were seeing a pretty major buying opportunity in our stock.
And so we were very aggressive in the third quarter and moved all the way to 4 million shares of buyback here this year.
We have about 3.7 million shares remaining under our authorization.
We said that we would expect to get that done between now and the end of next year.
And I think you should continue to expect to see that the timing of our buyback activity would be related to the timing of our cash flows our confidence in our outlook for our markets in the economy and also the overall share price.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> It sounds really like Roofing was the predominant factor versus Composite for your EBIT revision.
Could you just -- I mean is that clear in terms of the response to the earlier question which means Composite really didn't change that much relative to your EBIT as of last quarter? Yes Ken the last question that was asked was more what would drive the number up or down inside the range.
So I think within the range of what we see for the balance of the year it's probably more driven by Roofing.
If you go back and reflect on the comments that I made in my prepared remarks and I think Duncan also had some comments here the movement in the range was really driven by 2 factors: One was our expectation now that there is a base amount of this Roofing-related storm demand volume that will appear in 2012.
So we have taken some demand out of our market forecast for 2011 moved it into 2012 and therefore reduced our expectations for the year and that has brought the range down.
And then how accurate we are in that estimate will cause us to land inside the range.
And the second thing is we did moderate our growth expectations for Composites which caused us to bring the range down.
So we had said coming into the year we thought Composites could potentially be a double-digit growth story this year.
In the second quarter we still thought it was a high single-digit growth story.
We now believe it's going to be kind of a mid-single-digit growth story.
So as we backed off of what is still good growth numbers for Composites that's caused us to bring the range down because that business has really wonderful operating leverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess related to the comments around focusing on Composites you said 4Q was kind of entering the end rate 2Q when -- and second quarter you had roughly $529 million in sales versus $496 million so it sounds like the revenue is closer to the second quarter.
And I think the broader question concern people have in Composites is if we're going to see that type of downturn that we did in '09 with your slowing view of demand seemingly more on the inventory side right now versus the -- well exacerbated by thinner inventories it sounds like can you talk about utilization? It sounds like it's better in America versus Europe A.
B what it means regarding your experience because I know Russia is smaller than the Mexico plant.
And what that means for pricing vis-à-vis your expansion and competitors as you move into what is not necessarily going to be a clear 2012 demand environment.
You can choose which one or all.
Yes I was going to ask which question in there you'd like me to start with.
Let me just start with your comments on the fourth quarter.
I would caution you to make sure that you obviously understand the seasonality of our markets and the seasonality of our business.
We would look at late second quarter and late third early fourth as being 2 pretty peak periods for Composites.
So the fact that late second kind of that May June early July time frame and then late third or early fourth September October those are 2 times of the year where you don't have holidays weather production breaks and other things that can influence volumes.
So we think those are pretty comparable.
As we get into the fourth quarter as you get it late in the year you do see some seasonality based on some of the markets that we serve as well as our customers' needs to manage their year-end inventories et cetera.
So I just want to caution as you try to roll forward from the comments we made.
As we look at our outlook this is an industrial production-driven business.
While there has been some cautiousness about the global economy I think most forecasts would still have positive industrial production growth for the developed world and continued strong industrial production growth in the developing world not just China but also India where we have a very very strong market position with our Composites business there.
So we would look at next year and expect that we should see continued demand growth based on growth in industrial production.
This gives us an opportunity to continue to bring some of the low-cost assets online that we've been building as well as load some of the low-cost assets that we put into production.
So our plant in China should get incrementally better loaded in 2012 than it was in '11.
We would expect that we will obviously adjust the timing of the Russia start-up and the Mexico start-up to be timed to market needs and production needs on Owens Corning side.
But we're obviously very anxious to bring those assets into production because they have our latest technology and would be the lowest-cost positions for both of their regions of the world.
We're obviously managing the business very closely right now in terms of production levels and inventory making sure that we would be well positioned to adjust to market changes.
And I would make sure that you understand market changes both on the upside and the downside.
So we certainly think that the market right now could be underestimating growth rates and that there would be a need for us to be able to respond to stronger growth than we're currently seeing.
And obviously we're always cognizant of the fact that the market can slow down dramatically.
I think our track record of performance in '08 and '09 where we were able to turn the business around and get back to positive cash flow in a very short period of time and get to profitability in a short period of time we would believe they've only strengthened our ability to do that over the last 3 years.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to understand what causes consumers to push out storm-related shingle purchases from this year to next.
And ultimately if you could dig in a little deeper on what's happening on your standard level of demand for shingles.
I think because of the storms it's a little harder to look at your revenues and operating profits and see what's going on on the core of the business.
Could you give some clarity there? Sure.
Let me start with the second part of your question and then I'll come back to kind of the dynamics of how storm demands in our market get satisfied.
But we had come into the year with the reroof and repair market which is kind of the bread and butter of this market.
We've always talked about roofing as really being a need not a want.
And even in difficult new construction and difficult existing home residential markets Roofing has been a fairly resilient market segment for us and our customers.
Although we have seen and we published data on this that our estimates of the repair market and the reroof market is probably at least 10% below what we think is a reasonable long-term average for that market so it has been depressed.
We had expected small amounts of growth in recovery in that market this year.
I think that's probably our best estimate at current is that market is still recovering some.
And we would expect that market -- its recovery to really be timed to roofs beginning to age more and more which creates more and more need to reroof roofs that were repaired and actually do need be reroofed and ultimately house prices stabilizing and creating confidence in the investment in the home that would cause the homeowner want to go do a reroof job.
And then obviously any particular uptick that we saw in existing home sales or new construction activity would also spur that market.
As it relates to the storm demand if you think about the dynamic of how a market responds to storms you can see upticks in a market where the monthly rate of activity in the market could double or triple when a storm comes through.
That market therefore typically needs additional distribution capacity.
It needs additional contractor capacity.
You have insurance adjusters that have to come into the market to determine what the insurance recovery will be with the home.
You have homeowners who make an assessment of their house and what needs to be repaired and how much of their own money they want to put in in order to get a roof repaired.
All of that creates a swell of activity early on and then some kind of decay curve where initially you get a lot of activity and then you begin to service kind of the end of the market.
When you have so many markets have as much storm-related activity as we saw in the spring you have to scale up all of that capacity in each one of those markets.
And I think what we've seen this year is if you have one big storm market or 2 big storm markets there's the ability for manufacturers distributors and contractors to come into that market and service the demand quite quickly.
I think what we've seen this year is the nature of the demand has been so widespread that in conversations with our customers they're still telling us there are a number of markets out there that there will be material amount of businesses still needs to be gotten after next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my second question is is could you outline what you think will be the key drivers of EBIT growth as you get into 2012 recognizing that you had a pretty strong first half in Composites for this year.
It seems like the storm-related demand while some of it is being pushed out to '12 is still supporting some pretty high levels of growth in the second half of this year.
I'm trying to understand as you guys look and are trying to approach those 2013 goals you set out what will be the key drivers whether it be on the top line or the margin side across your business in 2012? Well obviously we haven't given 2012 guidance beyond expressing on today's call that we did think we were positioned to grow earnings again next year.
I think if you look across the portfolio probably the emerging story right now is the turnaround in Insulation.
We're now believing that we'll see up to as much as $40 million of EBIT improvement in the second half of this year if we can get the business to break even versus prior year.
So that's a significant improvement in the EBIT performance of that business and we believe we'll have a profitable quarter in the fourth quarter which would be our first profitable quarter in about 3 years.
So we're seeing a lot of good positive developments in Insulation which can become a part of an earnings growth engine for the company going into next year.
We're probably reasonably optimistic that the Roofing business will enter next year in a fairly stable frame.
This year we started with a little bit weaker margins.
Hopefully with decent volumes through the fourth quarter and some storm volume in the first half of next year we would maybe see a little bit stronger margin performance heading into the first part of next year so that we could still post some great numbers next year even if the market were down a bit.
And then Composites we would still expect growth.
So we do think we'll see demand growth and we think demand growth positions us well to get into another operating leverage story and be in a position to grow that business again next year.
Obviously the timing of how that falls through the year and when we see that volume growth is going to be something that we're going to have to work on as we put our operating plans together for next year.
So we can look at each one of our businesses and feel fairly comfortable that now with an emerging turnaround story in Insulation that we still have a fair amount of more levers to pull in order to keep Owens Corning growing.
Your next question comes from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Mike I was hoping just from a big-picture perspective on the Composites side you could maybe lay out a counterargument to an uncertainty we hear a lot from investors which is realizing Composites went from call it a $200 million profit in '08 to losing money in '09.
If we were to get some sort of catalyst from Europe that would cause concern around the globe on the manufacturing side can you outlie such a delta in profitability wouldn't happen again what's different within the business or your manufacturing footprint that would limit the type of decline we saw in that period? Well let me start by talking maybe more broadly about the materials markets generally and how we think Composites plays in the overall market for materials.
I think you've heard some of the other people who make materials whether it's aluminum steel and others the analysts that cover those.
Generally my reading of their reports and my reading of their analyst reports suggest that at least in the recent quarter in the recent couple quarters volumes have continued to be reasonably good in the materials markets.
So what we're seeing in our Composites report is quite similar to what we've seen with some of the other materials companies that report.
I think the big difference in our Composites report has been you have seen some margin compression and price compression for some of the other materials providers that we haven't seen in our business.
Our pricing has been stable and we've been able to capture some price in the market.
I think that's a function of our market position and it's also a function of the nature of the business.
We provide fiberglass reinforcements to manufacturers who then process our product into end-use products.
And there are some reasonable barriers to entry.
There are some switching costs and the product doesn't trade as a pure commodity.
If you look back in the '08 '09 time frame we lost some price during that period of time but not a dramatic amount of price.
And pricing generally in Composites is more stable on the downside and admittedly more stable on the upside.
We also don't go on kind of the big price upswings that you see in some of the other materials markets.
So we're seeing the volume profile of some of the other materials companies that are reporting but we're probably seeing a better margin profile and better pricing outlook than some of them because of our low-cost position and because of our strong market position and the nature of our market.
I think it's maybe a little bit dangerous to speculate what is -- what's an overall kind of "fall off the cliff" environment for the world to look like.
And I think that's what investors and analysts -- you have to make your own judgments about that.
I would only say that given the strength of our businesses and the resilience of our portfolio we've been able to navigate an awful lot of difficult challenges in this company and continue to post great results.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess just to follow on that though from a manufacturing side or a productivity side is the business structured any differently today than it was then that if something does come that's more dramatic that you could respond differently or the leverage would be different? Yes I mean we have some lower-cost assets that are currently running so the capital program that we've had in place in Composites over the past -- course of the last 4 years I do think has positioned us with a lower-cost fleet of assets.
I would also say that if you look at that time frame we were just coming out of the Vetrotex integration and we're really starting to get our legs underneath us as running the Owens Corning and Vetrotex assets as one Owens Corning Composites business.
I think we've made great strides in our technology group and our manufacturing support group in terms of now finding best practices across that fleet of assets and having them learn from one another.
We think there's more to be done there but it's an opportunity for us.
I would caution though on the other side it does continue to be a high-fixed cost business.
So your ability to shed cost in a downturn is one of the reasons why you have great operating leverage on the way up and it's also a challenge for us on the way down.
So there are some real positives relative to the last time we went through this.
But obviously the nature of the business is going to make it a high fixed cost business which would give it negative operating leverage if we saw a significant drop in demand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just quickly on Insulation the comments around fourth quarter imply that if you are profitable it's mainly modest profits.
Is it right to assume that the delta is entirely volume driven? Are there any other assumptions that are uncertain any price that's baked in or market share gains that are baked in that we should be aware of? No.
I think our market execution has been very very good.
I mean our commercial teams are working awfully hard to make sure that every piece of volume out there that prefers Owens Corning that we're servicing that well.
We're manufacturing well in that business with the EcoTouch conversion now fully implemented.
We're loving that technology.
Not only do our customers think we're making a great product but every day we're learning more and more about that technology and the process technology and how to make that both a wonderful product and also a low-cost technology.
For us between now and the end of the year it's really about volume.
And the market has been basically flat versus last year.
We work on a 90-day lag so some of the maybe a little bit more positive housing data we've seen in the last couple weeks with housing starts in September and existing home sales today that wouldn't impact our business this year.
That would really be a next year theme if we start to see an improvement in housing.
So it's going to be what the volumes we see in the market are and how that impacts our reported results.
Again I would emphasize it's a great conversation to be having.
Last year in the second half of the year we lost $40 million.
This year we're now talking about which side of breakeven we're going to be on.
I mean I think that represents tremendous progress from the business and great operating leverage second to third quarter and we'd expect to see great operating leverage again third to fourth.
Your next question comes from the line of Garik Shmois with Longbow Research.
Just have a question on Roofing.
You mentioned the seasonal inventory correction that's occurring right now.
Last year in second half of the year you also had an inventory correction and needed to get back on price a little bit.
I'm just wondering if you could comment on your expectations for pricing here in this winter as it relates to what you saw last year.
And if you could comment on inventories as they stand right now compared to last year as well.
Yes I mean great question.
I think our reported results today demonstrate how profoundly different the market we're in today than we were last year.
Last year you had the first-time homebuyer tax credit that had spurred some new construction volumes in kind of the March April time frame.
Economic reports and unemployment data were suggesting we were getting ready to go into a recovery.
And Roofing prices were going up which caused distributors to be highly incentivized to want to buy inventories in advance of projected demand.
When that demand didn't materialize we saw much more broadly an inventory correction that was not seasonal based but was actually an overbuy in the second quarter that needed to be unwound in the third quarter.
And that's why we had such a difficult third quarter last year.
Our comps we didn't talk much about our comps in the call because we beat our third quarter of last year by so much that it's just 2 totally different stories.
This year we do know that most Roofing distributors see more vibrant activity when it's not snowing and it's not winter so they're more happy to carry inventories in the second quarter and third quarter than they necessarily would be in the fourth quarter.
That's the natural seasonal inventory that we talked about today.
So the demand signal which has been storm-related with a good underlying volume of the roof and repair albeit at slow levels that underlying volume has supported the market this year all the way through the third.
We do know that some of the distributors and our customers are taking down their inventory positions just in anticipation of winters coming.
So we think it's a natural seasonal effect.
We don't think we have a big inventory overbuild out there that was built against demand that's not going to materialize.
Okay.
Just a question on Insulation on the incremental margins.
You had good incremental margins from 2Q to 3Q.
It seems like that's generally in line with your long-run guidance.
But given that we're at such low demand levels right now could there be some potential upside to that 50% incremental margin target that you've thrown out there before longer term? It's Duncan.
I'll take that.
Back on our Investor Day I think last year we had talked about that over the period from '10 to '13 we could see on average about 50% operating leverage kind of in that business.
And that was based on the fact that as you say demand is at quite low levels.
And so as we do turn back on facilities as we see some demand come back we will get some incremental leverage both from turning on facilities.
We're also getting incremental leverage from the fact that we've been managing costs very assiduously in this business over a long time now.
And thirdly obviously there's some contribution also from price.
I think what we're seeing in the second to third quarter this year is some of the operating leverage is borne out in terms of what we see over second to the third quarter.
We'd probably continue to see some pretty good operating leverage we think into the fourth.
That's being driven by -- we have seen some decent-sized increases in revenue quarter-over-quarter second to third quarter and that I think gives us the opportunity to post some decent operating leverage.
And if we do start to see some demand pick up over future quarters and leading back into '13 then we'll probably post some pretty good operating leverage.
I think what is probably the biggest uncertainty in operating leverage is also -- is always a function of where prices will go and how fast they will go and at what level.
So if there is any upside it will probably be in the price.
But generally speaking I think we're sort of comfortable at sort of the range we laid out for our overall operating leverage of that business over a prolonged period of time it's still in the order of magnitude of 50%.
Your last question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Guys we had been hearing a little bit about your ability to increase share in the Roofing business.
And I was curious if you could talk a little bit about the dynamics you're seeing competitively there.
We understand there's maybe been some motion on the part of some of your competitors in the big-box retail channel and I wanted to see if you were seeing any of that and overall if you think you've gained share in the past quarter or 2.
Yes Stephen we don't have good reliable share numbers that we share externally.
So I think generally we -- if there's sources of information that are talking about market share in Owens Corning it's likely not us because that's not a generally an indicator that we report on.
We love our position with our customers.
We're obviously a very very important relationship with Lowe's on the Roofing side of the business and do a lot of business with them.
We've been working very hard with them to make sure that they have a very competitive offering and are successful in the market.
Obviously in the retail channel we think that that's been a good story for us and for them this year.
On the distribution side which is much more to the heavy contractor and to the reroof side of the business that's a combination of both big national distributors as well as local distributors so you have to be able to execute on the ground kind of branch-by-branch market-by-market.
I think we've done a very very good job of listening to our customers and being able to respond to their needs some of whom are in a storm market and are seeing a lot of demand and some of whom are not in a storm market and need support in helping them with sell-through and helping them build their brand position and our brand position in the market.
So we've had kind of a full agenda of commercial execution for our Roofing team and I think they're doing on awfully nice job in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just as an FYI.
I'm actually on a waiting list to get my roof done so I definitely understand what you're saying about demand getting pushed out a little bit.
I wanted to ask you also a question about transfer pricing.
How do you set the transfer pricing for your glass mat in the Roofing business is that something that's done once a year? Is it benchmark to something that sort of moves from quarter-to-quarter? Could you just give us a sense for how you guys set that price? Well as a company we believe very strongly in returning capital as a measure of business performance.
So we would look at any of the businesses that have internal transfers and we would try to associate market-based pricing and margin with assets so that we get realistic reads of what is a return on capital.
That's a key performance indicator that we would talk to all of our general managers about.
In Roofing the asphalt assets tend to be integral to the roofing plant.
So the cost of the asset and the cost of the asphalt and the processing costs gets caught up in our cost of goods.
But we have a pretty good understanding of where asphalt prices are externally because we also sell merchant asphalt in the market both processed and unprocessed.
So we have pretty good read on that.
Composites does hold the glass assets that provide the mat and the glass to our Roofing business.
We are merchant in that business also so we sell both glass and mat into the external roofing market into some of the very good customers of Owens Corning that in fact are competitors of our Roofing business in shingle manufacturing.
So we have a pretty good understanding we believe of where those merchant prices are also.
So our goal would be in our internal management reporting to very accurately reflect where we think return on capital is because that's a key measure we hold our managers accountable for.
Well good.
Thank you all for joining us today.
And with that I'll turn it to Mike Thaman with a few closing comments.
Well thank you Thierry.
First of all thank you all for your interest in our company and for your participation on our call.
Obviously it's a fun day as a leader of a company to be able to report that you're delivering record results.
So I hope we have many days in the future that we can open our earnings call by talking about this being the all-time record performance in our company's history but it was certainly a phone call I look forward to in representing the employees of Owens Corning to deliver that news to our market.
We think we are well positioned to deliver another outstanding year of financial performance at Owens Corning.
If you listen to our prepared remarks also our comments we have great confidence in our 3 businesses.
We think each of them are making great progress in their markets to become more and more competitive.
And would expect that that will produce a second consecutive year of earnings per share growth of about 40%.
So given the volatility and uncertainty that we see in our markets we think having a portfolio that has the kind of competitive positions that we have is a real asset and has given as resilience in earnings performance and obviously has given us the ability to post some great results.
We're very proud of the amount of earnings improvement we showed in 2010.
We think we will do that again here in 2011.
We continue to march towards the 2013 goals that we laid out at our Investor Day last year.
We said today on the call that based on what we're seeing in terms of slow improvement in housing but some of the nice underlying foundations of housing may be starting to round into a little bit better form as well as at least projections of slow but sustained global growth that we're well-positioned for our businesses to head into 2012 produce another year of earnings growth and continue to make progress against those 2013 goals that we laid out.
Obviously we continue to work on the businesses.
Know that there's lots of good things that we can continue to do.
I think the people of Owens Corning are actively engaged in trying to make this the best possible company and to give me the pleasure of coming on at a future quarterly call and reporting another new record earnings quarter.
Thank you for your interest.
We look forward to talking to you on our fourth quarter call in February.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shantiley and I will be your facilitator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Shantiley.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us today for today's conference call in review of our business results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Duncan Palmer Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-K that detailed the results for the year.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the slides at owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investors section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
Second these statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.
This presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP are found within the financial tables of our earning release.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide #4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by CFO Duncan Palmer.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
Owens Corning delivered another outstanding year.
For the second consecutive year adjusted earnings per share growth exceeded 35%.
We achieved growth in revenue and EBIT in all of our businesses amid challenging marketing conditions.
These results reflect strong execution in our portfolio of market-leading businesses.
As a company we delivered adjusted EBIT of $461 million a 21% increase over 2010 and increased earnings per share by more than 40%.
Our top line performance of $5.3 billion was also strong representing a 7% increase over 2010.
During this call Duncan and I will recap the past year focus on the market conditions for both of our segments and outline our expectations for delivering another year of EBIT growth in 2012.
I will begin as has been customary by commenting on how we performed relative to the expectations we previously shared with you.
For 2011 we said that we would continue our progress in creating an injury-free workplace.
Our rate of injuries in 2011 improved by 27% compared with our full year 2010 performance.
This marks the 10th consecutive year of safety improvement in Owens Corning.
We reduced the number of injuries in our company by over 90% during this time period.
We said at the beginning of the year that full year adjusted EBIT for the company would be $475 million.
We updated this estimate during the year as market conditions changed and our 2011 adjusted EBIT of $461 million is in line with that updated guidance.
We said Composites would deliver mid-single digit revenue growth and double digit margins.
This business posted a 4% increase in revenue double digit margins and EBIT improvement of $26 million.
We are pleased with these results in light of the difficult conditions we faced in Europe in the second half of the year.
I will detail our action plan for Composites later in my comments.
We said Roofing would achieve EBIT margins of 20% for a third consecutive year.
The business delivered EBIT of $429 million and EBIT margins of 20%.
We responded effectively to storm volume and demonstrated strong price execution.
We said Insulation would narrow its losses and embark on a measured path to recovery.
The Insulation business achieved breakeven EBIT in the fourth quarter of 2011 the first time since the third quarter of 2008.
The business has built momentum throughout the year benefiting from the effective launch of our EcoTouch insulation the integration of FiberTEK operations continued improvement in our manufacturing position and good commercial execution.
Finally we said that the company would continue to use its balance sheet to position itself for future growth.
In 2011 we extended and refinanced more than $1 billion in credit facilities and we repurchased 4 million shares.
Overall we delivered strong EPS and EBIT growth for the year and have demonstrated the power of our businesses and our people to deliver even in challenging market conditions.
Now let me turn to the market environment as we enter 2012.
I'd like to start with the outlook for Composites.
We saw some deceleration of global industrial production especially in Europe which resulted in our business and the overall industry building excess inventory in 2011.
This has put some supply-induced pressure on pricing particularly in Europe and Asia.
As a result we've seen low-single digit declines in prices in our Composites business as we enter 2012.
Overall we remain positive on the fundamentals in Composites.
The market grew in 2011 and we expect it to grow again in 2012.
While we have experienced price pressure the level of price loss has been quite mild underscoring our belief that the overall market continues to be broadly in balance.
We are addressing our oversupply position.
We've initiated actions to reduce 2012 production volumes by about 7% by delaying the startup of capacity additions in Russia and Mexico and increasing downtime during previously planned furnace rebuilds.
These actions will result in a reduction of inventories to target levels by the end of 2012.
In addition we intend to optimize or close certain facilities in Europe which will improve our competitiveness by the end of this year and result in a permanent reduction of our global capacity of about 5% when fully implemented.
Our actions in 2012 will further advance our global production strategy to migrate our global network to low-cost scale assets and to balance regional supply and demand.
Despite a record of having grown earnings significantly over the past 2 years we do not currently believe that Composites can continue to grow EBIT in 2012.
We do believe the actions we are taking will further improve our cost position rebalance our inventory and position the business for positive operating leverage and double-digit margins as we enter 2013.
Now let me turn to the Building Materials segment.
Seasonally adjusted U.S.
housing starts during the fourth quarter were at their highest level in 3 years.
External forecasts indicate increased housing starts in 2012 a positive sign for our business and the industry.
We enter 2012 with cautious optimism for a recovering housing market and with the line of sight to significantly narrow losses in Insulation.
The roofing industry experienced 13% demand growth in 2011 and our business enjoyed volume gains consistent with this growth.
In 2012 we anticipate 3 positive trends for the roofing market: improved new construction demand for shingles; continued growth in reroof demand which grew in 2011 for the first time in 6 years; and some carryover of the 2011 storm demand into the early part of this year.
We believe that supply chain inventories are in good shape and the overall market dynamic is stable as we enter 2012.
At this point it is not possible to estimate how much new storm-related volume we would see in 2012.
Regardless we are confident in our market position and our ability to sustain strong performance.
We are eager to see the new construction market improve and are pleased with some of the second half trends that support industry estimates of 2012 housing starts of approximately 700 000 units including both NAHB and blue chip.
An improving housing market should more than offset the impact of near-term market conditions in Composites particularly in Europe.
The market outlook for our business combined with the strong competitiveness of our portfolio positions us to deliver another year of adjusted EBIT growth and strong cash performance in 2012.
Further we remain confident that in an environment of modest global economic growth and 1 million U.S.
housing starts Owens Corning can achieve our mid-term goal of $1 billion or more of adjusted EBITDA.
Now let me turn the call over to Duncan to provide more details on our business and corporate performance drivers.
Duncan? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike has discussed already we continue to deliver strong operating results in the face of challenging market conditions.
Adjusted earnings per share grew in excess of 35% for the second consecutive year as we grew sales and EBIT across each of our businesses.
Let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the year and the fourth quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's news release and the Form 10-K.
As I point out in our quarterly calls in recent years we have excluded items that were unrepresentative of our ongoing operations to arrive at adjusted earnings before interest and taxes our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparisons.
In 2011 we did not have any adjusting items to our reported EBIT.
Today we reported 2011 consolidated net sales of $5.3 billion a 7% increase over 2010 with sales growth across all of our businesses.
Our Roofing business grew 17%.
Our Insulation business grew 5% and our Composites business grew 4% compared with 2010.
EBIT for 2011 was $461 million an impressive 21% increase over adjusted EBIT of $381 million in 2010.
Adjusted earnings for 2011 were $276 million or $2.23 per diluted share compared to adjusted earnings for 2010 of $199 million or $1.57 per diluted share.
Fourth quarter 2011 EBIT was $88 million compared to $64 million in fourth quarter 2010.
Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $48 million or $0.40 per diluted share compared to adjusted earnings of $29 million or $0.23 per diluted share in fourth quarter 2010.
Our 2011 effective tax rate was 21% below our previous guidance of 25%.
We realized the benefits of some effective tax planning late in the year which lowered the -- our overall rate.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $318 million for 2011 in line with 2010 depreciation and amortization expense of $320 million.
Capital expenditures for 2011 were $442 million compared with $314 million in 2010.
The increase in capital spending was primarily to support expansions of low-cost facilities in our Composites business and was slightly higher than our prior guidance.
Net debt increased year-over-year by more than $300 million.
This was a result of our growth investments in the Composites business high working capital a relatively large contribution to our pension the FiberTEK acquisitions and share repurchases.
We increased inventory levels in our Composites business which we will address later in our outlook and made an investment in additional inventory in our Roofing business to support service levels for our customers in 2012.
Based on our outlook and the actions we are taking we would expect that in 2012 working capital will be a net source of cash.
Now if you turn to Slide 6 I will provide a high-level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing the full year of 2011 with 2010.
EBIT in 2011 was $461 million an increase of $80 million from 2010.
Roofing improved EBIT by $24 million.
Insulation improved EBIT by $5 million with a $28 million improvement in the second half.
And Composites improved EBIT by $26 million.
Lastly corporate expenses and other items contributed an additional $25 million in EBIT primarily through the elimination of losses from the U.S.
Masonry Products business which we divested in December 2010.
General corporate expenses were $71 million in 2011 relatively flat to 2010 and less than our 2011 guidance of $80 million to $90 million.
The improvement relative to our guidance was due to lower incentive compensation expense and the net impact of nonrecurring items including foreign exchange gains.
With that review of the key financial highlights I now ask you to turn to Slide 7 where we provide a more detailed review of our businesses starting with Building Materials.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 Building Materials net sales were $771 million compared to $717 million for the same period a year ago.
Building Materials delivered $55 million in EBIT in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $9 million in 2010.
Full year 2011 Building Materials net sales were $3.5 billion compared to $3.2 billion in 2010 reflecting increased sales in both our Roofing and Insulation businesses.
Building Materials delivered $332 million in EBIT in 2011 compared with $281 million in 2010.
The following 2 slides present the results in more detail by highlighting the 2 businesses within our Building Materials segment.
Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
For the fourth quarter 2011 Roofing net sales were $384 million up 13% from the same period a year ago.
EBIT for the fourth quarter was $55 million compared with $37 million in 2010.
Roofing net sales for the year were $2.2 billion a 17% increase compared to 2010 primarily driven by higher sales volumes from a strong storm season.
The U.S.
shingle market grew in the low teens in 2011 and our shipments increased in line with the market.
For the third consecutive year our Roofing business achieved EBIT margins of 20% or higher.
EBIT for the year was $429 million compared to $405 million in 2010 driven by strong volumes and good execution in manufacturing productivity.
As Mike mentioned in his comments the outlook for U.S.
housing supports modest improvement in the new construction market.
Reroof demand ended a 6-year decline in 2011 and some carryover storm demand from 2011 is expected into the first half of 2012.
Assuming that additional storm demand is more in line with historical average levels we would expect the U.S.
market overall to comp negatively in the mid-single digits year-over-year.
We expect to sustain our market position and therefore 2012 will be another strong year for our Roofing business.
Now Slide 9 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
For the fourth quarter 2011 Insulation net sales were $387 million compared with $356 million in 2010.
Our Insulation business delivered breakeven EBIT in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to a loss of $22 million in 2010.
The last time our Insulation business achieved breakeven was in the third quarter of 2008 when seasonally adjusted lagged U.S.
housing starts were over 1 million or about 65% higher than lagged U.S.
housing starts in the fourth quarter of 2011.
This demonstrates the progress we have made in positioning our Insulation business for an eventual U.S.
housing recovery.
In 2011 Insulation increased net sales by 5% to $1.4 billion and narrowed EBIT losses by $5 million primarily due to higher sales volumes.
We've seen sequential improvement throughout the quarters in 2011 in both revenue and EBIT driven by cost reductions strong commercial execution and overall housing market improvements during the year while effectively integrating the FiberTEK acquisitions and successfully launching EcoTouch.
Looking ahead to 2012 industry estimates such as blue chip and the NAHB indicate that U.S.
housing starts will be slightly higher than 700 000 supported by the run rate in the fourth quarter of 2011.
On this basis we would expect the momentum we have built in 2011 to carry over into 2012 and that the Insulation business will significantly narrow losses for the year.
Historically Insulation has been a seasonal business and profitability is typically stronger in the second half of the year.
As I remind you on each of our quarterly calls this is a great business in a well-structured industry.
Owens Corning's PINK insulation is a powerful and enduring brand.
We are the clear market leader well positioned to return to historical performance levels when demand improves as we know it will.
Now I will ask you to turn your attention to Slide 10 for a review of our Composites business.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 Composites net sales were $459 million compared with $475 million in the same period a year ago.
EBIT for the fourth quarter was $49 million compared with $59 million in 2010.
Overall our shipments were stable although European market demand was weak during the quarter and EBIT was also impacted by the May 2011 divestiture of our Brazilian facility.
Our Composites business delivered increases in both sales and profitability for the full year.
Net sales for 2011 were nearly $2 billion a 4% increase over 2010.
This increase was primarily due to higher selling prices and the impact of favorable exchange rates.
On a year-over-year basis sales volumes increased.
The global glass reinforcements market grew by 4% in 2011 below historical levels due to weakness in Europe and Asia.
EBIT for 2011 of $201 million was up 15% due largely to the benefits of productivity from excellent execution in our manufacturing operations and higher selling prices which more than offset inflation.
I would like to touch on current global market conditions as we head into 2012.
Historically the long-term global growth rate for glass reinforcements has been 5% to 7% per year growing with industrial production.
We believe that the slower-than-anticipated growth in the market in 2011 particularly in the second half has contributed to Owens Corning and our competitors holding excess inventory at year end.
This has placed pressure on pricing particularly in Europe and Asia with overall declines in the low-single digits although the impact has been somewhat less than we've seen in the past.
We expect global industrial production to continue to grow in 2012 but that the Eurozone's economy will decline.
We are confident that there will be overall market growth in glass fiber reinforcements.
In response to the current market conditions we are taking decisive action to improve our competitive cost position and balance supply within our manufacturing network.
We believe that these actions will result in a reduction of our inventory to target levels by year end 2012.
We expect to incur approximately $130 million in charges in 2012 and early 2013 of which half will be cash related.
We expect that the sale of assets including land and precious metals associated with these actions will offset a significant portion of the cash costs.
The impact of these charges will be adjusted out of our financial results.
As we look to 2013 the benefits from the continued migration of our Composites global network to low-cost scale assets positive operating leverage as new and curtailed assets come back online and anticipated market growth position us to return strongly to double-digit EBIT margins.
Let me now turn your attention to Slide 11 other financial matters.
The company continued its disciplined approach to balance sheet and capital management for the long-term benefit of investors and we strengthened our portfolio by the execution of several key transactions.
During 2011 we acquired the 2 FiberTEK facilities and divested our glass reinforcements facility in Capivari Brazil.
We repurchased 4 million shares in 2011 under our previously announced share repurchase program 3.7 million shares remain available for repurchase under our existing authorization.
As we've said previously we expect to complete the current authorization by the end of 2012.
Our 2.3 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
In 2011 our advantaged tax position delivered a third consecutive year of cash tax savings of about $70 million and our cash taxes paid in 2011 were below $25 million.
In addition we refinanced our $800 million senior revolving credit facility during 2011 to extend maturity to 2016 at lower borrowing rates.
We closed on a $250 million receivable securitization facility during 2011 that will mature at the end of 2014 providing additional sources of liquidity at an attractive cost.
With that review of the 2011 performance of our businesses I now ask you to turn to Slide 12 where we provide some additional guidance for 2012.
We anticipate that corporate expenses in 2012 will grow to about $110 million to $120 million.
This is driven by higher pension expense higher year-over-year incentive compensation and nonrecurring items which were a net benefit in 2011.
For 2012 we expect capital spending to be about $350 million.
Reported capital spending will include about $20 million of precious metal purchases that we expect to be offset by precious metal sales during the year.
As a result net capital spending will be roughly in line with depreciation and amortization of approximately $320 million.
Cash flow is anticipated to be strong in 2012 as we reduce inventory in our Composites business reduce capital spending lower our pension contributions and continue to benefit from an advantaged tax position.
On the basis of our tax NOL and successful tax planning we expect our cash taxes to be about $30 million.
Our effective tax rate on adjusted earnings in 2012 will be about 25%.
Our outlook for the year assumes that there is improvement in U.S.
housing starts and modest growth in the global economy.
On this basis we expect business performance and market conditions to support growth in adjusted EBIT in 2012 with improvement in Insulation offsetting near-term market conditions in Composites a moderate decline in overall roofing demand and increases in general corporate expenses.
We continue to make progress against our mid-term goals.
The significant achievements made in 2011 along with our expectation that adjusted EBIT will grow in 2012 continues to support our confidence that we are on track to deliver our goal of $1 billion or more of adjusted EBITDA at 1 million U.S.
housing starts and with continued global economic growth.
Thank you and I will now turn the call back over to Mike.
Thank you Duncan.
As I said at the outset of today's call we're pleased to have delivered another outstanding earnings performance in 2011.
This performance demonstrates the power of our market-leading business portfolio and our ability to execute across a wide variety of market -- of challenging market conditions.
Based on our 2011 performance we are confident in our ability to deliver adjusted EBIT growth and strong cash generation in 2012.
The decisive actions we are taking in Composites will contribute to our delivery of good cash performance this year.
We expect that strong performance in Building Materials will enable us to overcome the growth in corporate costs and some of the anticipated weakness in Composites to provide overall EBIT growth for Owens Corning.
In summary this year we see Building Materials delivering earnings growth Composites delivering cash growth and Owens Corning delivering both cash and earnings improvement over 2011.
As we look further into 2013 we would expect to have our Composites-related actions completed.
With an improving housing market we will be positioned for both Composites and Building Materials to deliver cash and earnings growth and Owens Corning to operate on all cylinders.
Owens Corning has the strong track record outstanding talent and enviable global market positions to take advantage of the opportunities before us.
We are up to the challenge to deliver another great year in 2012 and beyond.
With that I'll now turn it over to Thierry who will lead us into the Q&amp;A session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Shantiley we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Stephen Kim of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just first start off by asking if you could comment on the sources of cash that you anticipate coming in this year.
I know you’ve got a buyback authorization and in addition you've outlined that there might be $60-some-odd million that you'll need to put out for your Composites restructuring.
I was wondering if you could comment on what you think the offsetting inflows for cash might be this year.
Sure Stephen.
Maybe let me top line that a little bit and then I'll turn it over to Duncan and he can kind of go across the major captions of our cash flow statement.
But in broad terms obviously we're going to have another great EBIT year.
And we're not a cash tax payer so obviously cash earnings in our company are very very good.
We have brought down our level of capital expenditure not so much in response to weaker market conditions just really that we have done we think a good job over the last couple of years putting the capital investments in to support growth around the world of low-cost and scale assets that would support long-term growth in Composites and even near-term growth in Composites.
So from a capital point of view we felt like this was a year that we didn't need to put as much capital into the business.
We thought we would continue to have very good earnings performance and really those are 2 very key drivers.
There's a number of other kind of balance sheet changes that I think Duncan talked about in a broad sense in his comments but I'll let him talk about those maybe a bit more specifically.
Duncan? Yes.
Thanks Mike.
So -- I mean I've got sort of kind of some of the different items which are probably really driving this to be a good outlook from a cash flow point of view.
And first of all Mike mentioned CapEx we expect to be more in line with depreciation.
We spent quite significantly more than depreciation in 2011 because we had a number of composites growth investments that we were doing so we'd expect that to be quite an improvement.
On the working capital side we actually grew quite a lot of working capital in 2011 I mean over $200 million so we expect that net-net to be pretty much a source in 2012.
So that's quite a big cash flow change year-over-year.
On the pension side we'd probably put in a little more than we would typically expect to put into the pension in 2011.
I think it was more like $112 million something of that order of magnitude and we'd expect that to be more like $70 million $74 million I think in 2012.
That's going to be a source.
As Mike mentioned we have a very strong tax position as we continue to make earnings particularly earnings in the United States.
Given our NOL position and our tax planning we would not expect cash taxes to be particularly large.
They were of the order of $25 million in 2011.
They'd probably be in the order of $30 million in 2012.
So that's going to help us from a cash point of view.
You mentioned the restructuring kind of costs in Europe.
What we said there was we expect to take charges over '12 and '13 which would include cash and noncash items.
As we said about half of that would represent cash expenses over the period.
I'm not sure it's reasonable to conclude that all of those will be in 2012.
And we would expect a significant amount of those to be offset by sales of assets and precious metal and other benefits.
And so that would probably mean we could offset a lot of that as well.
So I do think that therefore we have pretty good outlook to why this year would be a pretty good cash flow year for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Now that helps tremendously.
The second question relates to your Building Products business and Insulation businesses.
In particular you talked about -- I think you mentioned 700 000 starts which was the combination of 2 service.
What we're hearing from the field in housing continuing to strengthen.
Pretty much across-the-board we are getting confirmation that the sales traffic through the builders community centers and so forth is very strong.
And I think at this point it might be fair to sort of ask the question if you see a level of housing starts let's say closer to 800 000 if we were to be fortunate enough to see that in 2012 I think in the past you had indicated that that might be enough to drive Insulation into profitable territory.
I wanted to confirm that that hadn't changed even after the Masco relationship.
And then in Roofing I was curious as to what kind of volume lift you might see from an extra 100 000 starts in 2012 in your Roofing sales.
Sure let me talk about Insulation first.
Obviously we believe getting to breakeven performance in the fourth quarter in Insulation was a significant milestone.
So if you look at the underlying demand we work on about a 90-day lag.
You know we were basically at about a 615 000 seasonally adjusted housing start market in the fourth quarter which would have been Q3 2011 demand which was basically flat from the market opportunity we saw in Q4 2010.
So with very little change in the market we were able to improve our EBIT by $22 million on revenue growth of about $30 million.
So I think you're seeing fundamental performance improvement in our business in what has been basically a flat market.
We saw seasonally adjusted starts in the fourth quarter start to tick up.
We're back kind of to 650 for the fourth quarter.
Obviously it's a seasonal business so fourth quarter starts at 650 does not provide us the same market opportunity because it's winter and the seasonally adjusted starts reduce the number of actual holes in the ground during the winter time.
So we won't see the effects of a really strong market until we get through a spring selling season and see kind of what the second quarter third quarter starts might be coming out of where spring selling is.
If some of the chatter in the industry -- I mean a lot of us were at the Homebuilders Show last week heard generally positive things from the builders I think there is more positivity in the homebuilder confidence index than there's been in a very long time and we saw that this morning.
If we were to see a good spring selling season and see some momentum through the year our lag starts would underpin the guidance we gave today which was based on 700 000 starts in 2012.
I'm not uncomfortable saying that we've given guidance that we believe the business could be breakeven at 800 000 starts.
That was kind of a linear interpolation.
We had said at 1 million starts which was the last time the business broke even.
We thought this time around we would make $100 million.
We said that at 600 000 starts when the business was losing $100 million.
So many of the analysts have kind of looped between those 2 numbers and said "Well it seems like you'd be breakeven about halfway." And I think with the improvements we've seen in the business in the latter part of 2011 and with the opportunity for some momentum if we were to get into that kind of lagged housing start environment our expectation would be we will get breakeven or better.
On the Roofing side it's important to remember that the main underlying market in roofing is in fact the reroof and repair market.
On a 15-year average basis about 75% of the overall market is driven by classic reroof and remodel and repair-type business.
We were actually pretty pleased in 2011.
We published roofing industry numbers on volumes.
We'll talk about those a little bit in our Investor Day in March.
We think reroof demand grew in 2011 versus 2010 really for the first time in about 6 years.
So we've reversed a downward trend in reroof demand.
Growth in reroof demand is probably a much more important driver of the overall market than would be growth in new construction.
So we have estimated at 600 000 starts we think the overall market for new construction shingles is around 11 million squares.
That's pretty linear.
It can vary a little bit geographically but if we went from 600 000 starts to 800 000 starts we'd probably expect to see that number grow by about 3 million squares or by about 1/3.
So the opportunity for reroof demand to go from the low 90s back to the 15-year average of 105 million squares would probably dominate the new construction impact in roofing and we do think those do go somewhat hand-in-hand.
That existing home sales repair and remodel people's willingness to invest in their home generally is pretty highly correlated to a good new construction market.
So as new construction improves we would expect to see attitude towards investment in existing construction to also improve and start to pick up that reroof market and give us some growth there.
Your next question comes from the line of Kenneth Zener of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In Composites the down Europe is causing both down demand and inventory absorption.
Last time this happened in '09 as you guys highlight in your Slide 10 segment margins were negative.
Given your less specific guidance this year versus last year can you walk us through your thinking a little more? Mike I think I heard you say you didn't expect growth in Composites.
Flat in that environment also seems perhaps not likely.
So could you walk us through your thinking? Europe is 40% of the business.
The slowdown isn't global this time.
How is that negative leverage going to look given that you're burning off inventory and the payback period on your restructure? Yes Ken I think the key kind of difference between the things we said and the way you laid out the case is we are not expecting down demand in 2012.
In fact we expect the overall composites market to grow globally.
We do expect down demand in Europe so we think Europe right now is in a negative industrial production.
We think that was in the second half of 2011.
We certainly in our outlook would expect that to continue at least through the first half of 2012.
But Europe represents probably less than 30% of the overall composites market with Asia still growing with the developing country still growing.
China obviously with a good outlook for growth and then good growth here in North America.
We do expect the overall composites market this year to grow.
Given our market-leading position which you described we would expect that we would see better overall volumes in 2012 than we saw in 2011.
The 2 headwinds that we have though that cause us not to be able to translate that into earnings growth is we have seen low-single digit declines in prices associated with what we would say is a supply overhang rather than weakness in demand.
And that's working its way through.
We think that's mostly behind us.
We think that was primarily a late 2011 early 2012 kind of event and that we would expect for the full year pricing would now start to stabilize.
And then the other thing is we'll have some absorption economics as we take out the 7% of production that I talked about in my prepared remarks.
So obviously whenever we liquidate inventory we've absorbed some cost in the inventory that will come out as we ship those inventories.
But we have other curtailment costs that then back up on to our P&amp;L.
So when we look at 2012 we see that we'll have some curtailment costs coming into our P&amp;L and a bit of negative pricing combined with overall demand growth and continued productivity in our operations.
As we get to the end of 2012 we would expect to have had completed enough permanent capacity reduction restructuring primarily in Europe that would take about 5% of our overall capacity.
That would then allow us to get some of the low-cost capacity we've been building out over the last 2 or 3 years loaded in a world of continued demand growth which is what we expect and fairly stable pricing we'd expect to go into next year therefore with a better global network a higher percentage of our assets being low-cost better utilizations and loading no year-over-year curtailment cost.
In fact that would then become an add-back as the curtailment cost we had in 2012 didn't repeat in 2013 and decent volume growth leading to good margin expansion.
So that's kind of the whole walk forward from where we are today and how we work our way through this year.
Obviously we don't see anything near either the kind of price decline that we saw in 2009.
We're not seeing volume decline period.
And as a result while we are signaling today that we don't expect that we can have a third consecutive year of earnings growth in Composites we expect that the decline in earnings will be relatively mild in that we can overcome them with some improvement in the Insulation business and with the Building Materials segment.
And with corporate costs going up a bit obviously Composites is going to have to hang in there and have a reasonable year for us to be able to get to our guidance of growing earnings on 700 000 starts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I do appreciate that.
And then Roofing the margins obviously -- it's a volatile business.
I think broadly people saw a very strong demand end-market demand because of weather and storm which led to end-market pricing that was stable when seasonally the December and then March quarters tend to be sequentially weaker than the prior.
Can you talk about what you saw -- I think you came in a little lighter.
I mean you guys -- it was 20%.
Do you -- would you reiterate the 20% for example this year in terms of the operating margin and the price increase you have on the channel? Can you comment on that relative to the January-February asphalt prices this year being up 20% versus last year although flat with the March through December run more or less? I'd appreciate that.
Sure.
I mean we were very pleased with Roofing this fourth quarter.
I mean we've talked a lot on these calls over the course of the last 3 or 4 years on how difficult it is we believe to forecast quarterly results in the Roofing business.
We tend to look at it as a full year kind of business.
When we look at the full year for roofing what we accomplished is we grew our revenue by about 17% which was a combination of market demand growth of 13% which we talked about today and some growth in our prices because of increased asphalt costs.
So we obviously kept up with the market and were able to get good pricing.
We're able to grow earnings or EBIT overall for the business and we're able to achieve our margin goal of 20%.
Now in the fourth quarter I think if the market had grown full year 2011 by say 15% instead of 13% it's not hard to see that a couple additional points of overall growth for the market would have all shown up in our fourth quarter.
It would have all been on the margin.
It would all have produced additional EBIT.
But I would tell you that any couple additional points that we saw at the end of 2011 was likely storm demand that would have then come out of our outlook for 2012.
So there's a lot of timing in terms of when the market serviced the demand that we saw materialize in 2011 and we were very happy with the amount of demand that we saw for our business in the fourth quarter of 2011.
And we're pretty happy with the market dynamics as we head into 2012.
We don't really see anything today in terms of our outlook to raw material costs our outlook to inflation the pricing environment supply chains or inventories that causes us to be uncomfortable with saying that we think we'll continue to have a very strong performance from our Roofing business.
We've come off now 3 consecutive years of 20% operating margins and we think that's awfully strong and consistent with our long-term guidance of mid-teens or better.
Research Division</strong> But not 20%? Well we haven't -- we just haven't given specific guidance at the segment level this year.
One of the things that we're trying to do in the way we talk about the businesses this year is to step back a little bit from some of the very very specific guidance we've given in the individual businesses and talk about Owens Corning more as a whole.
I think it's not hard to do some numbers and see that the Roofing business is going to have another great year for Owens Corning overall to grow EBIT.
So we think that that's pretty much in the guidance we've given.
Your next question comes from the line of Garik Shmois of Longbow Research.
The first question is just on Insulation.
I was wondering if you could just remind us when you completely anniversary the higher costs associated with the EcoTouch conversion as well as the -- when the volumes associated with the Masco agreement were fully loaded into the numbers in 2011.
Yes Garik I think if you go back and look at the first half of last year we were still in transition on EcoTouch so we had some costs in our business in the first half.
It felt like we ran pretty well in the second half so I would say we had a stable manufacturing environment and stable technology in the second half.
We were also transitioning some of the Masco branches that we were pleased to have successfully integrated into our business in the first half of 2011.
And I would say that pretty much our relationship as one of their primary suppliers was fully onstream by the second half of 2011.
So the first half of 2011 would have both those impacts in it.
I think the second half is a pretty good and stable run rate.
And generally if you look at last year we trailed 2010 performance in the first half and then in the second half is where you saw the year-over-year improvement in EBIT.
So we have pretty nice momentum on a sequential basis in that business coming into 2012.
Okay.
And just a follow-up question on Roofing with respect to the price increase that you have announced.
Have you seen your competitors announce a price increase for either the March or April time frame just yet and if you could just provide some color on what kind of feedback you're seeing in the channel with respect to distributors' appetite to absorb higher prices here in 2012.
That would be great.
Yes.
We did announce a price increase for early March.
I don't believe we've seen any competitive activity regarding pricing at this point.
We have certainly seen in our business that we did not have a typical seasonal fall-off in asphalt costs as we went through the winter in that our asphalt costs today continue to be at relatively high levels.
So we think one of the things that we're looking to do in the first half of this year is find a way to get some price recovery that would allow us to cover the inflation that we've seen.
We're obviously going to continue to be very very competitive in the industry and it's a competitive industry.
But our expectations for the year would be that we'll be able to execute sufficient pricing in order to continue to sustain very good margins in the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on the Composites.
I was just hoping to get a little bit more granular if possible.
And I know -- I recognize you guys are trying to maybe get away from maybe the level of quantification you did before.
But just to get a sense of the degree of magnitude here you're certainly mentioning that the issues that are facing the industry right now are much milder compared to late '08 early '09.
But just to clarify your statements here I think initially you said Composites' EBIT that there'd be no growth.
In answer to a previous question though I think you said maybe a modest [ph] decline in EBIT itself.
So I just wanted to clarify you're expecting EBIT flat or EBIT down slightly? And second in terms of how to think about the first quarter itself given that's where you would be encountering the most probably in terms of the adjustment in terms of your capacity in production are we to think a turn into a negative territory in the first quarter or is some type of mid-single digit more reasonable? Yes let me start with our overall outlook to EBIT and then I'll come back and talk about how some of this might play out through the year.
What I've said in my prepared remarks is Composites had grown EBIT for the last 2 years.
And in fact if you look at Owens Corning's overall improvement from 2009 to 2011 really the driver of that improvement has been Composites as we've kind of muddled through a bit of a difficult Building Materials market here in North America.
I did say that we did not expect we would be able to continue that string of growing EBIT this year.
Said a different way we do think we'll see some EBIT decline in Composites this year based on our current outlook and that that EBIT decline will be more than offset by growth in performance in our Building Materials segment so that we can produce overall EBIT growth for the company.
I don't think it's appropriate to think about that first quarter adjustment as being -- or your questions about the first quarter it wouldn't be appropriate to think about the production adjustment as we're slamming on the brakes and as a result kind of stopping a lot of production immediately.
We have a big fleet of melters globally.
They go through turnarounds or rebuilds.
The chemical industry tends to call them turnarounds.
We tend to call them rebuilds.
We have the ability to time those rebuilds in such a way that they create natural opportunities for us to reduce inventories.
We can take a melter down a little bit earlier.
We can leave it down a little bit longer and then bring it back up.
That's a very low-cost way for us to take curtailment.
We had also planned to bring capacity into our network this year in both Russia and in Mexico.
These are 2 great investments for us that are low-cost facilities.
Our plan right now is to just bring those online a little bit later in the year in each instance than we had previously planned which will take some production out of our production plan.
So it's really a number of those types of adjustments that allow us to adjust through where we find ourselves.
Because mind you we're not seeing demand decline.
What we're seeing is a need for us to correct some inventories out in a growing demand market.
And as a result of that we just need to take our rate of production down sufficient that we can get the inventories out of our system so that we can get back to operating leverage.
So I don't think the kinds of reversals of fortune that we saw in 2009 are anywhere on the agenda for us this year.
It's much more of using the strength of our fleet of melters to get an adjustment to get the inventory positions where we need them to be to get back to operating leverage.
And I think what we've demonstrated with this business is in a stable or slightly improving pricing market which we do think is the long-term pricing market for Composites and with good operating leverage and low-cost assets that the business can put up some awfully good numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Kathryn Thompson of Thompson Research.
LLC.</strong> The first one once again the Composites not to beat the dead horse but I do have questions on Europe.
We are increasingly getting word that the Chinese are back to their old ways with weak pricing which you alluded.
Is there a possibility that European regulators could increase the current Chinese Composite tariff and any color you have about that process and what we could see in coming months? Yes that's a good question Kathryn.
As we said in our comments we did see some mild pricing actions late in 2011 early 2012 that those pricing actions were primarily related to Europe and some in Asia.
In fact we saw some of it start when the euro was still at $1.40.
So Europe was probably a bit more attractive a market at that time than it is today at EUR 1.30 -- $1.30 to the euro.
I'm sorry I want to make sure that I'm clear about that.
So on an exchange rate basis if you're going to sell in other places in the world in U.S.
dollars the European market was still a pretty attractive place given the strength of the euro.
Some of that decline has probably made Europe a little bit less attractive and anti-dumping duties have helped to protect the European manufacturers a bit including Owens Corning.
I would defer to the European Composites Manufacturing Association which is the group that has gone to the European Union originally to seek the anti-dumping duties.
We are a member of that group.
I know that that group has had some focus on whether or not the current market environment potentially would suggest that the levels of anti-dumping duties that were put in were not aggressive enough to keep stability for the European manufacturers.
I can only speculate where that process might go.
So I don't have any insight or inside knowledge on that.
LLC.</strong> But it sounds like there has been some discussion though.
Yes I think it's an ongoing dialogue.
Anytime you get into your trade association talking with governments about anti-dumping duties or the European Union about anti-dumping duties I think there's a discussion before it happens.
There's a discussion during implementation and then there's ongoing dialogue as to whether or not the duties are working as designed.
I can only speculate.
LLC.</strong> Okay.
And then going back you talked about reducing production by 7% in 2012 but know there are some capacity additions in Mexico.
First are those still on track? Are there any other composite manufacturers to your knowledge that are taking down capacity in the next 12 to 18 months too or adding capacity? Yes.
The 7% reduction that we were talking about today on today's call is 7% off of a growing capacity base for Owens Corning.
So we obviously deploy long-term assets in this industry to meet long-term demand and we have been building out low-cost assets first with our plant in China then with the capacity expansion we're doing in Russia now with the capacity expansion that we're doing in Mexico.
We have been building our low-cost assets to meet long-term growth in demand.
Our goal is actually to bring those assets on as quickly as possible because they are low-cost assets.
And the quicker we bring them online make them a part of our network and get them loaded the more our average cost structure goes down the more competitive our global network is.
So this year in transition delaying those assets for a period of time to help us reduce our inventories is the right thing to do but trying to take a bit more permanent capacity reduction in Europe that would take out some of our higher-cost assets get us competitive in Europe again allow us to have line of sight and visibility to good profitability in Europe and also ensure that we're not taking curtailment in our low-cost assets in order to keep high-cost European assets running much more trying to focus our global network to balance supply and demand in each of the regions of the world.
So we've got to work our way through that.
But generally our outlook for Composites continues to be long-term demand growth long-term need for us to continue to have low-cost capacity and that low-cost capacity continuing to improve the richness of our margin mix and driving our operating margins to the mid-teens which has been our long-term guidance in that business.
LLC.</strong> Okay great.
And final question and I can follow up later if you prefer to answer later.
There was a sequential decline in revenues for Composites yet you had a nice improvement in EBIT margins from Q3 to Q4.
What was driving that relative improvement in EBIT margins in the face of a decline in top line in Composites? Is it mix or is there something else that we should take into consideration? Well one of the things that I'd say that I think the business has done a very good job of is -- our manufacturing performance has been improving really kind of over the last 4 or 5 quarters.
I think we've had a fairly stable mix of products in our facilities which has allowed our manufacturing team to focus on efficiencies and throughputs and running well.
We had -- we are migrating in terms of yields and efficiencies towards some record levels of performance in our Composites business so we're very proud of them.
So I would imagine that a fair amount of that improvement is probably related to just good manufacturing performance in our business.
Your final question comes from the line of Neil Frohnapple of North Coast Research.
Can you speak to the success of the 5% Insulation price increase that was implemented in early January? And do you have any further price increases planned at this point for that business? Yes we had announced a 5% price increase for January 1 of this year.
Generally we don't like to give a lot of specific guidance in terms of how we think individual price increases are going.
So I guess I'd prefer not to comment specifically to that.
I guess more broadly what I would comment on is the belief that increasing our prices and helping our customers increase their prices is critical to the long-term health of our business and our customers' business.
So we have generally over the last 2 or 3 years been quite active as I think one of the recognized leaders in the market trying to put price increases in that would allow our customers to be able to improve the profitability of their business and also absorb higher costs from us.
Today insulation prices are quite a bit depressed from where they've been historically.
And we think a big part of the recovery of financial performance in our business and in the business of our customers would be for us to get more value for the insulation system in new construction.
If you think about it it doesn't really make a lot of sense that the insulation system which is going to be an enduring part of the value of any well-built home and is going to be there for 50 or 60 years saving energy for the homeowner should be devalued and not valued as a part of new construction.
So we've got some work to do there.
I think you would expect that the ability to get price is probably easier in an improving market.
We have not yet been really in an improving market but it continues to be our -- on our agenda for the improvement of our business.
All right.
And one final one did Roofing volumes benefit at all in the fourth quarter due to the milder weather or will this be more of a tailwind in the first quarter you think? I think the mild weather for sure is benefiting our customers.
So when we talk to distributors I think what they've said is that they saw roofing season continue later into 2011 and that they've seen particularly in the northern parts of the country better opportunity to have some business going out their door in the first part of 2012.
For a manufacturer a lot of the decisions that distributors make and retailers make in terms of when they buy product from us and how aggressive their inventory positions are is largely driven by their expectations and outlook for pricing.
So as we see the first half of this year develop and we see expectations for pricing if the distributors begin to expect that prices will go up I think you'll start to see a lot of their demand out their door translate into orders on our books.
And if that were not the case I think they would probably continue to just balance and match what's going out their door with what they buy from us.
So I don't really have a strong point of view today in terms of when that translates into good business for Owens Corning.
I'm pretty resolute that it does ultimately translate into good business for Owens Corning in 2012.
Very good.
Well thank you for joining us to -- for today's call.
And with that I'll hand it over back to Mike for some closing remarks.
Mike? Well thanks Thierry.
First of all thank you everyone for joining our call.
We are always very appreciative of the interest that the investors show in our business.
We obviously are very proud of what we accomplished in 2011.
We think Owens Corning had another great year.
It's our second consecutive year of earnings per share growth of more than 35%.
We had a number of very very important milestones Composites at double-digit operating margins Roofing with good top line growth and continued sustained strong operating performance and the breakeven performance in our Insulation business in the fourth quarter.
So a lot of the things that we set out to do coming into the year we feel very good are now achievements that we can talk about for our people and for our business.
Coming into 2012 I think 6 months ago we would have said that what we hoped for was a global -- a growing global economy and some improving housing.
And then as a result we would have hoped to see the Composites segment and the Building Materials segment now in sync growing in 2012.
I think we're maybe going to get half of that this year which is we are expecting some improvement in housing this year which will help our Building Materials businesses and particularly Insulation business drive performance for us in 2012.
On the other hand we did see some slowdown as we mentioned earlier in Europe which is going to give is the need to take some actions to reduce some inventories and will cost us some operating leverage in Composites.
I think it speaks to the strength of our portfolio that even with some of the headwinds we maybe have seen in Composites in terms of small price declines some volume declines in Europe that in the overall demand growth environment we're able to offset some of the near-term challenges in Composites and believe that we can grow earnings in 2012 on 700 000 housing starts here in the U.S.
I think we're more excited beyond that as we look into 2013 with good execution of our action plan in Composites and I think we've got a great plan and good track record of being able to execute these types of plans in the business.
We can see ahead now 12 months to the potential for a Composites business that's absolutely geared with a wonderful asset base facing a growing market and good low costs in our global network and a Building Materials segment that is now benefiting from 4 or 5 quarters of sustained growth in its marketplace which should give us a positive overall momentum.
Our focus in the near term continues to be on execution.
I think you will hear us talk through this year about performance at both the earnings line and also in terms of cash flow.
I think we have an opportunity to give our investors a very nice year in terms of growth in EBIT and very nice cash flow performance and then get Owens Corning really operating on all cylinders as we head into 2013.
I know many of you do intend to come join us in Toledo for our Investor Day in March.
We look forward to seeing you in person.
And for those of you who will be on our next call we look forward to talking to you on April 25.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Keisha and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Keisha.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time today to join us for today's conference call in review of our business results for the first quarter 2012.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Duncan Palmer Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed the 10-Q that detailed our results for the quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the first quarter 2012.
We will refer to those slides during this call.
You can access the slides at owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investors section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin.
We offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
Second these statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.
This presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP are found within the financial tables of our earnings release.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded items that we believe are unrepresentative of our ongoing operations to arrive at adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparisons.
We typically exclude significant nonrecurring items such as the impact of the restructuring actions announced in our last earnings call.
We believe that adjusted EBIT is helpful to investors for comparing our results from period to period.
It was mentioned on our last earnings call we will continue to adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the first quarter we have adjusted our effective tax rate to 25% in line with our anticipated annual effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2012.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman will be followed by CFO Duncan Palmer.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thanks Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our first quarter 2012 results.
Owens Corning's first quarter performance was consistent with our expectations coming into the year.
Improvements in the U.S.
housing market and growth in global industrial production contributed to volume gains in all of our businesses and support our outlook for delivering adjusted EBIT growth and strong cash generation in 2012.
First quarter revenue was $1.3 billion up 9% compared to the same period last year on higher sales revenue in our Roofing and Insulation businesses.
First quarter adjusted EBIT was $43 million compared to $61 million in the same period last year.
As I do each quarter let me review our performance against the outlook I have previously provided.
We continue to make progress towards our goal of creating an injury-free workplace.
During the quarter our rate of injuries improved by 23% over our full year 2011 performance.
We said we expected another great year for our Roofing business in 2012 reflecting some carryover of 2011 storm demand improvement in the reroof market and modest improvement in the new construction market.
We are on track for another strong financial performance in this business.
We saw Roofing volumes grow in the quarter due to the storm demand carryover stronger market conditions and prebuying by our customers ahead of our announced price increase in April.
We said our Insulation business would significantly narrow losses in 2012.
Insulation volumes grew over the same period in 2011 and we narrowed the losses in the quarter from $47 million last year to $34 million in the current quarter.
We said we would transform our Composites operation into a global network of low-delivered-cost assets with a commitment to achieving significant progress in 2012.
We have previously announced the restructuring of our European assets and are on track with the execution of this plan as well as the startup of low-delivered-cost assets in Mexico and Russia later this year supporting our outlook of returning to double-digit margins for this business in 2013.
We said we would grow adjusted EBIT this year.
While our adjusted EBIT for the quarter was lower than the comparable period last year it was in line with our expectations.
We will see acceleration of our performance across all of our businesses as the year progresses.
We said 2012 would be a year of strong cash generation.
Based on this outlook the Board of Directors has authorized of the repurchase of up to 10 million additional shares of Owens Corning common stock.
While we continue to face macro market uncertainty as a result of our first quarter performance we remain confident that we will achieve our 2012 outlook of adjusted EBIT growth and strong cash generation based on an improving U.S.
housing market and continued growth in global industrial production.
Before discussing our business segments I'd like to start with some comments on the macro environment in which we're operating and how we see it impacting the year.
Lagged U.S.
housing starts in the first quarter were up approximately 25%.
As noted on our previous call seasonally adjusted housing starts during the fourth quarter of 2011 reached the highest level in 3 years.
The Insulation business has begun to capitalize on this improvement.
We expect to benefit from the improving U.S.
housing market and the seasonal nature of construction through the balance of 2012.
Roofing volumes grew during the first quarter as a result of improving market conditions carryover storm demand from 2011 and customers buying in advance of our April price increase.
As we previously said full year 2012 market volumes are expected to decline in mid-single digits versus 2011 assuming a normal level of new storm demand.
Finally global industrial production which has historically served as a good driver of glass reinforcements market demand is expected to grow at about the same rate as last year with a stronger performance in the U.S.
offset by weakness of industrial production in Europe and slower growth in some developing markets.
These factors create an environment for growing market demand across our portfolio of businesses and improving results as the year unfolds.
Now let's turn to a review of our business segments and our outlook beginning with the Building Materials business.
Roofing delivered $83 million of EBIT up from $77 million one year ago on the strength of 19% year-on-year revenue growth.
Roofing margins declined slightly from last year for the quarter due to a combination of flat year-over-year pricing and higher asphalt input cost.
We are confident that we've taken sufficient pricing actions to recover inflation and improve margins and that Roofing will deliver another year of strong financial performance.
Insulation narrowed its losses to $34 million from $47 million in the first quarter of 2011 performance that positions us firmly on path to achieving our goal of significantly narrowing our losses for the year.
With insulation fundamentals continuing to improve we remain focused on taking full advantage of this growth with strong execution in manufacturing pricing and commercial initiatives.
In the first quarter we reduced manufacturing cost in the business and expect to see continued manufacturing improvements over the course of the year.
In addition the increasingly favorable market conditions underpin our confidence in making progress in our pricing this year beginning in the second quarter.
The repositioning of our Composites business is on track and we expect financial performance to build throughout 2012.
First quarter sales for the business were down 3% from last year.
We're encouraged by the acceleration of sales volume that we saw in March which should force a stronger volume outlook for the remainder of the year.
Composites margins were negatively impacted by inflation higher production cost and slightly lower selling prices compared with the first quarter of 2011.
We believe that prices and raw material cost inflation have stabilized.
With growing volumes stable prices and stable input costs and the shutdown of high cost assets and a stronger base of low-delivered-cost assets that financial performance will build through 2012 returning this business to double-digit margins in 2013.
We are pleased with how all of our businesses have responded to markets that have yet to realize their full potential.
All of our businesses have an intense focus on pricing productivity and customer responsiveness that will drive improved financial performance.
Before I turn the call over to Duncan I'd like to make some comments regarding share repurchase.
We did not buy any shares in the quarter.
We continue to believe that we will complete the purchase this year of the 3.7 million shares of stock that remain under our previous authorization.
In addition today we announced that the Owens Corning board has authorized the repurchase up to 10 million additional shares of our common stock based on our multiyear outlook to cash flow.
Confidence in our business strategies our demonstrated capacity to deliver earnings growth and our strong cash generation provide the opportunity to return capital to our shareholders.
Duncan will walk you through the details of our segment performance and other key financial developments in the quarter.
After which I will return with some closing comments prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Duncan? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike noted earlier our first quarter performance is consistent with our expectations and we have made progress against our objectives for the year.
We've seen some improvements in economic conditions particularly in the United States although our end markets continue to perform well below their full potential.
Our first quarter performance reinforces our outlook that we will deliver adjusted EBIT growth in 2012 and deliver a strong cash flow year.
Let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's news release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported first quarter 2012 consolidated net sales of $1.3 billion a 9% increase over the same period in 2011.
Our Roofing business grew 19% our Insulation business grew 14% and in our Composites business net sales were down 3% compared with the same period a year ago.
In a moment I will review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT.
As Thierry noted at the beginning of the call this is our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the first quarter of 2012 was $43 million as compared to $61 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2012 were $11 million or $0.09 per diluted share compared to $27 million or $0.22 per diluted share in 2011.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $89 million including $18 million in accelerated depreciation related to the asset restructuring in Europe.
We expect our full year 2012 depreciation and amortization expense to be up to $320 million excluding the impact of our actions in Europe a little less than we had guided previously.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter was $72 million.
We expect that full year capital spending will be approximately $350 million.
Next let me reconcile our first quarter adjusted EBIT of $43 million to our reported loss before interest and taxes of $12 million.
Our European restructuring actions resulted in $55 million of charges in the first quarter.
These actions will contribute to the transformation of our global Composites network to low-delivered-cost assets.
We are well positioned to return our Composites business to double-digit EBIT margins in 2013.
As previously disclosed we anticipate incurring charges of approximately $130 million related to these actions in 2012 and 2013.
Now please turn to Slide 6 and I will review our adjusted EBIT performance comparing first quarter 2012 with the same period a year ago.
Adjusted EBIT declined $18 million.
Our Roofing business continued to deliver strong results and grew EBIT by $6 million on higher volumes.
Our Insulation business narrowed losses by $13 million on improved volumes good commercial execution and cost improvement.
These improvements were offset by our Composites segment where margins were negatively impacted by inflation and slightly lower selling prices year-over-year.
Finally corporate expenses and other increased $12 million compared to the same period in 2011 driven by higher incentive compensation expense and nonservice pension costs as well as certain gains that benefited the first quarter of 2011.
With that review of the key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 7 where we provide a more detailed review of our businesses starting with Building Materials.
In the first quarter Building Materials net sales were $919 million a 17% increase over the prior year reflecting higher sales in both Roofing and Insulation.
Building Materials delivered $49 million in EBIT in the first quarter of 2012 an increase of over 60% compared with the same period in 2011.
The following 2 slides present the results in more detail by highlighting the 2 businesses within our Building Materials segment.
Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were $588 million a 19% increase compared with the same period a year ago.
Strong sales volumes were supported by improved market conditions carryover of 2011 storm demand and customers buying ahead of our announced price increase.
EBIT in the quarter was $83 million up $6 million over the same period in 2011.
We continue to expect that the underlying reroof and new construction markets will grow in 2012 driven by increased U.S.
housing activity.
On this basis and with the return to normal storm activity the U.S.
market as a whole will decline in the mid-single digits from 2011 levels.
Storm activity in the first quarter has likely been above average and if this trend continues throughout the year it would provide upside to our market outlook.
EBIT margins were down year-over-year driven primarily by asphalt inflation.
Typically in the first quarter we experience some level of competitive seasonal buy activity ahead of the spring and summer demand.
Much of the increase in price that we achieved during 2011 was offset by buy activity in the first quarter of 2012 but prices have now returned to pre-buy levels.
In addition we have responded to asphalt inflation with price increases which we are confident will improve margins over the rest of the year.
2012 will be another year of strong financial performance in Roofing.
Now Slide 9 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
Net sales in Insulation of $331 million up 14% from the same period a year ago reflecting higher sales volumes as a result of an increase of about 25% in lagged U.S.
housing starts and strong commercial execution in the marketplace.
The business narrowed losses from $47 million last year to $34 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Incremental sales provided additional contribution margin across our Insulation business.
Manufacturing costs were lower on improved productivity and the completion of our EcoTouch launch in 2011.
Pricing was broadly stable compared to the same period in 2011 and we have taken pricing actions across several of our markets.
On the basis of improved volumes continued cost reduction and pricing execution we expect to significantly narrow losses in 2012.
As I remind you on each of our quarterly calls this is a great business in a well-structured industry.
Owens Corning's PINK insulation is a powerful and enduring brand.
We are the clear market leader well positioned to return to historical performance levels when demand improves as we know it will.
Now I will ask you to turn your attention to Slide 10 for a review of our Composites business.
Our Composites business delivered results consistent with our expectations for the quarter.
Net sales for the first quarter of 2012 were $476 million a 3% decrease compared to the same period in 2011.
First quarter sales were impacted by foreign currency translation and the second quarter 2011 divestiture of our facility in Capivari Brazil.
Excluding the impact of these items sales grew over the same period in 2011 as stronger sales volumes in the quarter more than offset the impact of slightly lower sales prices.
Regionally the U.S.
market was strong.
The European market was down year-over-year but volumes were stable and consistent with our expectations and we saw tempered growth in some developing markets.
Overall March sales volumes were particularly strong providing momentum going into the rest of the year.
EBIT for the quarter was $23 million compared to $48 million in the same period last year largely due to inflation selling prices which declined in the low single digits as well as certain onetime benefits in the first quarter of 2011.
In addition we experienced some cost headwinds in the first quarter of 2012 from plant startups and asset curtailments.
We believe prices have stabilized across our markets during the first quarter.
Year-over-year inflation was driven by higher oil prices.
In the U.S.
natural gas prices continue to provide a cost benefit to our operations.
We continue to monitor closely the energy price environment around the world.
We expect the global glass reinforcements market to continue to grow in 2012 at a rate broadly in line with the historical average of 5% with strength in the U.S.
offset by weakness in Europe and slower growth in some developing markets.
In this environment our sales volumes will continue -- will grow over the remainder of the year and in addition we are continuing to drive manufacturing productivity across our network.
On this basis financial performance is expected to build in Composites through the remainder of 2012.
We are taking actions to reduce finished goods inventory across our global network in 2012 as we balance supply and demand with European plant closures additional plant curtailments and the timing of new facility startups.
By year end we will have positioned our European business to be more competitive.
We will have significantly increased the percentage of our assets with our low-delivered cost and we will benefit from improved manufacturing economics across our network.
We will have reduced inventories to target levels in a market that is continuing to grow and we do not foresee significant further price erosion.
We are confident that our Composites business will return to double-digit margins in 2013 on a growing revenue basis.
Let me now turn your attention to Slide 11.
Mike mentioned earlier in the call we announced today that our Board of Directors has authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional 10 million shares.
As I commented at our recent Investor Day we continue to expect significant growth in earnings over the coming years as the U.S.
housing market recovers and growth continues in global industrial production.
We also foresee high levels of free cash flow conversion of as much as 100% of adjusted earnings on average over the next 5 years.
On this basis we will continue to balance our priorities for the deployment of free cash flow as we operate as an investment grade company.
Stock repurchases will continue to be an important mechanism to return capital to shareholders both in 2012 and beyond.
Our $2.3 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for at least the next 5 years.
In 2012 our advantage tax position is expected to deliver cash tax savings of about $70 million for the fourth consecutive year and our cash taxes paid in 2012 will be about $30 million.
Based on the anticipated mix of earnings across our operations we continue to expect our effective tax rate to be about 25% for the full year.
Our long-term effective tax rate is still expected to be the range of 25% to 28%.
Our first quarter performance and the economic outlook underpin our guidance that we will deliver adjusted EBIT growth and a strong cash flow year in 2012.
Thank you and I would now turn the call back over to Mike.
Thank you Duncan.
As we look to the balance of the year we are poised to benefit from improving market conditions pricing actions our European restructuring program and demand growth in all of our businesses.
These elements position us favorably to deliver value in the near term with adjusted EBIT growth and strong cash flow.
We also remain confident in our ability to achieve our midterm goal of $1 billion in adjusted EBITDA in an environment of 1 million housing starts and continued global economic growth.
With that I will now turn it back to Thierry who will lead us into the Q&amp;A session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Keisha we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on the Insulation good to see the year-over-year improvement but a little bit of a lesser delta in absolute dollars when you look at 4Q '11 over 4Q '10 and so I was just wondering is this -- are these results kind of in line with your expectations? Were there certain easy comps or extra charges in 4Q '10 that made that delta greater when you look at the last quarter? And perhaps any additional granularity in terms of the drivers of the improvement and what you could see perhaps even accelerating going forward? Sure Mike happy to talk about that.
First let me just talk a little bit about the seasonality of the business.
In our prepared comments we said that housing starts in the first quarter of -- lagged housing starts in the first quarter of 2012 were up about 25% versus lagged housing starts in the first quarter of 2011.
I think it's really important to remember the seasonality of new construction that in fact sequentially we probably saw housing starts that were 13% higher in the fourth quarter of 2011 than what we would've had in the first quarter of 2012 just because in the fourth quarter we would have been working off of late summer construction last year and in the first quarter we're working off a winter construction this year.
So we always know coming into the first part of the year that we're out of the retail reinsulation season but we're also coming into the portion of the year where seasonality of construction is going to cause us to have some headwind in terms of overall demand.
As you comp to last year though we did have a very nice revenue boost looking at our performance versus last year and we did produce good solid operating leverage.
The operating leverage wasn't all the way to the long-term operating leverage we've given or the midterm leverage we've previously said but on the path to 1 million housing starts we thought the business could produce about $100 million of EBIT at one million housing starts on about 50% operating leverage.
I think we're in kind of the mid-30s this quarter if you compare to prior year first quarter.
The biggest single determinant of that operating leverage is likely that we underproduced sales in the first quarter.
Just the way our production plan works we produced less than we sold in the first.
Likely in the second and the third we will get back to producing at or above the levels of sales so that will become a bit of a help.
And then our hope in terms of the roll forward will be we see a positive new construction environment and start to get into a more positive pricing environment both of which obviously will contribute dramatically to picking up our operating leverage a bit.
So we were pretty much where we expected to be in Insulation in the first quarter.
We do see some good things on the horizon in terms of the market improving a bit maybe a bit of an improving pricing environment and our ability to take our production levels back up to sales levels to improve our operating leverage a bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
I guess the second question maybe just staying on Insulation for a bit.
Can you review the price increases that you have set to take effect the timing of those and the magnitude and also on the Roofing side? Sure.
Let me first start with Insulation.
We had a price increase that was announced for the beginning of this year which was kind of mid-single digits depending on the product et cetera.
We didn't candidly produce a lot of progress against that price increase in the first quarter.
I think we saw across Building Materials some of the categories were maybe more aggressive price increases we're having a bit more success.
So we announced a price increase of low double digits depending on the product kind of a 12% price increase for the early part of the second quarter.
That -- certainly the price increase today that our salesforce is working on in the market to try to help our customers find a way to pass that through into new construction and help them improve their margin rates also.
So I think we expressed some optimism on the call today that we should expect to see some help from Insulation pricing as the year goes on.
On the Roofing side I think we had 2 phenomena.
We had some buy activity in the first quarter which caused Roofing prices to be basically flat over first quarter of 2011 with some increase in asphalt input cost so that put some margin pressure or margin compression on.
Coming into the second quarter it's our expectation in Roofing that we will have a good amount of success with the early April price increase which will help us move market pricing and then also some of the buy-related pricing that was in the first quarter will also come out of the business.
So we're pretty happy right now in terms of the outlook for having price leverage in the second quarter that will give us some ability to get Roofing margins back to historical levels and deliver another strong performance in that business.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to stick on Insulation.
So why did you guys underproduce sales in the first quarter if you could just kind of walk us through that as that was one of the things that kept under -- you under 50% operating leverage.
Could you also discuss that operating leverage? It seems as though you would have had some benefit year-over-year related to the absence of EcoTouch which has about kind of boosted operating leverage in our view.
Yes.
I mean the first question regarding production levels and underproducing revenue we tend to do our production planning annually and I think what you'd see is because of the seasonality of the business and because we know we typically sell a lot more products in the second half of the year than the first half of the year we take advantage of the first part of the year or late fourth quarter to do some maintenance to do some turnarounds to potentially get assets making other product lines.
Our goal is to head into the middle of the year with exactly the asset base we want running for the second half of the year.
So the first half of the year tends to be a time for repositioning of inventories and repositioning of assets getting ourselves positioned into the middle of the year to have the right assets running to meet increased market demand in the second half of the year and that's I think pretty consistent with how we would describe our production plan for 2012.
So I don't think there was any big news there besides just how we work our production plant to try to optimize our inventories and our assets.
I think you are right in terms of EcoTouch and the conversion there being complete.
We did have some EcoTouch conversion costs that were in our first quarter 2011 results.
So the absence of those costs would have given us some positive operating leverage in 2012.
I think those costs were offset by some other factors.
We had pretty good energy cost but we had a little bit of inflation in the business associated with packaging chemicals and transportation which would have been driven through oil prices.
So there are a fair number of puts and takes when you do the recon.
I feel pretty comfortable telling you that had we produced at the levels of revenue that that would have given us better operating leverage for the quarter than what we showed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess for my second question I’d like just to kind of continue on the Insulation I think that's capturing a lot of people's attention today warranted or not.
But when you talk about 50% operating leverage through the cycle your $100 million loss going to $100 million gain.
I think that kind of mask what are really 4 distinct businesses in Insulation namely the new side lots of focus however you're making money is my understanding on the international I believe the R&amp;R as well as the commercial foam which is more material conversion.
Can you talk about the operating ranges you see not necessarily explicit but how that varies versus the 50% general segment and if in fact you're still looking for 50% operating leverage in 2012 in Insulation? Okay.
I think if you go back to some of the material we shared with investors on our Investor Day during the first quarter we broke out the segments of the business between new construction and repair and remodel what we call engineered insulation or commercial and industrial type solutions and then also some of our geographic mix and actually put out some growth rates on where we thought each of those business segments would grow.
I think Ken correctly -- you correctly pointed out that the most dramatic growth we'd expect to see would be the recovery of housing to one million housing starts in that U.S.
new construction segment.
That's certainly the business that has suffered the most in terms of profitability and pricing as we've come off of and gone through this very difficult trough in housing.
As a result that would be the place we would expect to see the most leverage and the most impact in terms of improvement of results.
The remainder of the pieces are in good shape as you characterize them.
We've got some very nice geographic businesses in Latin America in Asia that are growing nicely and performing well.
Our foam business which is more of a material conversion business is performing well.
The reinsulation business is performing well.
It shares assets with the new construction business so it does suffer from some of the same utilization charges and therefore production economics that are new construction market would suffer from although volumes and demand in that business has been relatively stable through this downturn so that has not been the cause of the utilization challenges the new construction market has been.
When we look at operating leverage we gave a point-to-point estimate on that so when we were at about $100 million loss on about 600 000 lagged housing starts we said that the business should be able to produce $100 million of EBIT on about one million lagged housing starts.
We continue to think 50% operating leverage for the whole portfolio is a reasonably good estimate across that timeline.
We have not given specific operating leverage guidance for any individual year or any individual quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Garik Shmois with Longbow Research.
This is Zoran Miling in for Garik.
Just looking at the Roofing business industry volumes were up almost 22% on the quarter and yours seemed to have come in slightly below that.
Could you just elaborate on the delta whether it’s share shift or possibly other manufacturers offering more competitive discount programs in the first quarter? And also as the quarter progressed did you see a slight recovery in your shares as some of these are more competitive tendency subsided ahead of the announced price increase? This is Mike.
Yes it's a very good question.
I think we're really quite comfortable with our market position across all the different channels.
You have to look at kind of the mix of business and how each of the individual roofing manufacturers go to market in terms of looking at relative growth rates.
I think you are aware or our investors are certainly aware that we've got a very very nice relationship with Lowe's on the retail side of the business and they comprise a fairly sizable portion of our business.
Typically you don't see as much quarter-to-quarter swings in volumes in the retail channel as you would see in the distribution channel.
And as a result I'm not totally sure that I know the source of your overall market numbers for the first quarter.
We have not published on what we saw as first quarter roofing numbers but we look across the mix of channels that portion of our business which is retail that portion which goes to distribution that portion which goes to lumber yards and then we look at how we think each of those individual channels performed in the first quarter.
We're quite comfortable with the position that we have in the market at the end of the first quarter.
Great I really appreciate that.
And just as a follow-on could you discuss just how you see asphalt cost impacting the Roofing business over the next few quarters? Yes I'll make a few comments on this and then I'll see if Duncan maybe wants to add a little bit of color to this.
But asphalt prices today are above where they were in the first quarter of 2011 and as we said in the first quarter of 2012 prices were relatively flat so the asphalt cost inflation that we did see year-over-year was a negative comp for the business in the first quarter.
We've always expressed a fair amount of confidence in our ability to recover asphalt cost inflation in the market.
I think that's well understood by our customers that input cost inflation is a challenge for the manufacturers and that if we pass that to the market in the form of price increases typically they can achieve also price increases with their customer and that cost can get pass through.
We're feeling fairly comfortable that we are in that position today with some of the price actions that we initiated in the first part of the second quarter.
That's largely been on oil which moved above $100 a barrel kind of in the middle of last year and has stayed there.
I don't know that we've offered any additional outlook on how we think asphalt prices or oil prices will affect roofing going forward.
I guess I'd pass that one to Duncan.
Thanks Mike.
It's Duncan.
So generally speaking asphalt dynamics of a market we typically see that in an average winter over long periods of time asphalt tends to be a little weaker in the winter than it is in the summer because of the paving season that kind of drive some asphalt demand in the summer and therefore you tend to see some seasonality in asphalt.
We did not see much decline in asphalt prices this winter.
Although in a typical winter you might have expected to see that.
As Mike said generally asphalt economics are driven over the medium term by crude oil economics.
I don't have any particular insight to offer on crude oil over the rest of the year.
If I did that I guess I'd have a different opportunity for employment if I knew that.
I do think that we will see asphalt broadly track crude oil.
Crude oil has been relatively strong through the winter as Mike indicated and so we would expect that to be a driver of asphalt.
And depending on the outlook for crude and how crude develops that would probably dictate how the broad trend for asphalt develops with that overlying seasonality that typically speaking asphalt does tick up a little bit in the summer versus where it was in the winter.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first one is actually on the Composites business.
I'm trying to understand how much inventory reduction actually occurred in Europe.
How much that impacted margins this quarter? And if you could give us sort of a better quantification and timing around the benefits of restructuring ultimately I'm trying to understand what the margin outlook is for 2012.
I think that your margin numbers this quarter were worse than I expected I think worse than the number folks expected.
And so I'm just not sure whether I should be thinking 4% 5% 6% for this year and a big jump next year for 2013 to get to double digit or if we should see a bigger jump this year.
We didn't actually reduce inventories a lot in the first quarter so you asked a little bit about curtailment.
We began curtailments but I think really the headline for the first quarter was we had a lot of work to do with our labor unions in Europe getting to agreements on the ability to permanently close capacity and we made very nice progress on that which really will be probably the single biggest variable that will impact our ability to reduce inventories.
So by getting to the ability to permanently close some capacity and take that production out of our network inventories will come out relatively quickly when we do that and we'll be able to do that without a lot of curtailment or absorption cost because we'll have the assets turned off.
We have some other fairly sizable assets this year that need to go through a turnaround or a rebuild.
The timing of those downturn those turnarounds will also give us the ability to get after some inventory reduction.
So all of that was embedded in our plan and embedded in our guidance for the year.
What really affected the first quarter and I kind of went through 4 variables and I want to go through them again.
We saw input cost inflation and we think that's pretty stable at this point.
Most of that was coming off of oil chemicals energy-related input cost inflation.
We are now at elevated levels of cost on the input side but we don't think that's going to get worse through the next 3 quarters unless we see a big move in oil.
We saw some price decline in the second half of last year related to the weakness in Europe and then some price pressure that that brought to bear in Asia.
We think that's stable.
So as a result our outlook is really based on today's price levels and potentially through the course of the year maybe having a chance to even improve pricing a bit if the market firms up.
The third variable obviously was we still had high-cost assets running in the quarter and we made good progress on getting some of those turned off.
And then the fourth action is to get some of these low-cost assets turned on and into our network and we'll start to see the benefit of that from both a volume point of view and a cost point of view in the second half.
So I think with volumes building January is typically -- January and February are typically weaker than March.
A decent March typically points to relatively good volumes in the second and third quarter.
What you should expect to see through the next couple of quarters is better volumes and cost beginning to come down which would be additive to our margins.
You should expect to see in the second half that we then begin to bring on low-cost assets which start to reduce our overall cost base.
And I think if you take all those pieces together that's where our confidence of double-digit operating margins for next year has come from.
Research Division</strong> So I guess what’s in there and that's all very helpful I'm trying to understand if we should be thinking about the back half of this year getting towards that -- getting to that double-digit goal and obviously not making your full year double digit.
I guess I'm wondering should we be thinking about your business exiting the year at double-digit margins? Yes.
I'd be reluctant to give specific guidance in terms of where we think margin rates will be exactly at the end of the year but I think the narrative -- in the way you've characterized it if prices are stable and input costs are stable and we see better volumes through the next couple of quarters and we see costs coming down we would expect that the better volumes and cost reductions would start to improve margins kind of as we go through this year which would give us some momentum going into next year.
So I don't think we're going to run through the year at low-margin levels and then expect something changes dramatically on January 1 of next year that gets us to double digits.
I think it's going to be a progression.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is actually around your buybacks.
So we can consider you approaching the board for more repurchases as a sign that you'll buy more than the 3.7 million you already had outstanding.
If not I'll really be interested on why you guys approached the board for approval when your results were in line with your expectations.
It's a good question.
When you look at how we dialogue with our board regarding buybacks I mean we tend to look at multiyear forecast of investment multiyear forecast of earnings multiyear forecast of cash flow and are in constant dialogue with our board about what we may see in terms of opportunities that would be in the acquisition pipeline what we see in terms of potential other cash generators that would be in our business and maintain flexibility kind of in our toolkit to make sure that we have all the things we need from the board for share repurchase.
When we went through that dialogue with them I think we shared with our investors in March a fairly bullish outlook when we talked about the business over multiple years.
That would be consistent with the bullish outlook we've shared with our board.
We didn't want to put ourselves in a position where if we saw some changes in 2012 that created some opportunity for additional buybacks that we had to go back to the board kind of on an emergency basis or on a reactive basis.
We pretty consistently since emergence had a buyback program out there that gave us the ability that visibility to 2 or 3 years worth of share buyback activity.
We felt we had gotten to a point with our guidance for this year which is we expected to complete the existing buyback program that we were beginning to hear some questions from investors about would you expect to continue to repurchase shares after you complete this buyback program.
We thought the simplest way to make it clear to our investors is that buybacks are a part of our ongoing capital planning was just have the board expand our buyback authorization.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense and if I could just sneak one more last one in.
The gypsum industry raised prices significantly by cutting job quotes.
You guys did the same thing in Insulation and you expressed some optimism but not the sort of loud and proud optimism that the gypsum industry had as a result of this.
Are you seeing -- has that really helped prices? Should we expect closer to 100% conversion on that price increase from April? Yes I think the parallel to the gypsum industry is a good parallel and it can go so far but it can't fully describe the dynamics of those 2 markets as being the same.
Obviously the gypsum industry went much further down than even what we've seen in our Insulation business.
I mean those businesses have been operating at significantly negative EBITDA so I think the level of distress potentially on the gypsum side maybe gave them the impetus to be able to go forward with a very strong price increase.
And in addition to that I think there is a lot more job pricing in gypsum than there is on our side of the house.
So I think they had a couple of levers and we're wishing them great success because certainly we think that's a valuable product and they ought to get good prices for their product.
We think insulation is a valuable product and we're entitled to get good prices for our product and it's certainly well below the prices that we've gotten over the course of recent history.
I'd be reluctant to comment on how we think their success would impact our outlook for our price increase.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Wood with Macquarie capital.
You'd mentioned that you had difficulty with the mid-single-digit price increase in Insulation.
Just curious what's changing and why you're seeing success with the double-digit price increase this quarter.
What I was referencing to is we had had a January 1 price increase or thereabout that we had announced kind of in the middle of the fourth quarter which was mid-single digits.
And obviously looking at the first quarter results we didn't in our disclosure say that we had achieved an appreciable amount of margin gains or price gains in the quarter.
I think the feedback generally from the market from talking with our customers was that wasn't a large enough level of price increase to give them the ability to pass that price increase through to their customers.
And most of our customers are in a fairly difficult financial situation also so they're not in a position where they can eat a manufacturer's price increase into their margins.
We have to help them take the price increase down channel and give them good justifications so that they have the ability to move pricing in the overall market so that they enjoy some margin gain and we enjoy some margin gain.
I think the approach that we had in early January probably just missed the mark on that and we came back again therefore earlier in the second quarter with a larger price increase based on some of the thought process that our customers would have shared with us on what they thought might work for them in the market.
We're working very hard to try to help our customers run a successful business and we listen pretty carefully to them.
Got it.
And a lot of the building product companies have been getting questions in terms of the impact of weather with the unseasonably warm temperatures in the quarter.
Are you able to measure or discuss any impact that you may have seen on the Roofing side? Yes.
I mean I don't think anybody really has a good answer and we obviously cover the housing industry very carefully.
I don't think anyone has a really good answer on how weather impacted housing starts in the first quarter because those are all seasonally adjusted.
But if you go and look at some of the markets that weren't -- that typically don't have a big lag in the winter some of the more southern markets like Texas the southeast et cetera housing starts in the first quarter in some of those markets were pretty good year-over-year.
So if you stay at the seasonally adjusted numbers it's kind of hard to know how weather impacted it.
If you go into some of the regional numbers you'd see some pretty good regional performance in some regions where weather doesn't typically impact housing activity a lot through the seasons.
On the roofing side I think Duncan said in his comments that most of our guidance on Roofing this year has been built on market demand declining mid-single digits.
Most of that is a decline from the annualization of very strong storm demand in 2011.
We’ve carried some over.
With normal storm demand this year we think we would still be down kind of in that mid-single-digit range in terms of overall market opportunity.
What we've seen in the first quarter related to storm damage that would affect the roofing market is the first quarter which is typically not a big quarter for storm damage was probably a bit above average.
And so if that were to continue an above-average level of new storm demand for roofing would likely be an upside to our outlook for the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Just the first question kind of big picture.
You guys have emphasized a couple of times that the results were in line with your expectations and they were clearly short of sell-side expectations and maybe we're just bad at modeling the business on a short-term basis.
But the way the stocks behaved it's obviously short of buy-side expectations as well and you've had a lot of opportunity to talk with buy siders through the quarter including the Analyst Day.
So just based on how the stocks reacted and kind of comparing expectations both buy side and sell side to your own why do you think that disconnect exists? Well I think it is a hard to forecast the business quarterly.
I wouldn't tell you that even with all the information we have it's all that easy.
I mean we tend to look at our overall markets.
We look at our macros we look at the overall market opportunity that creates we look at our market shares and we look at the timing of our costs and our revenues and build our own expectations internally.
I think if you look at last year Roofing had a very very strong first quarter and we beat it so we thought that was pretty good.
We said Insulation would narrow losses for the year and in fact in the first quarter we did that with some improving market conditions even though it's seasonally weak so we thought that was good.
Overall our adjusted EBIT was down about $18 million and $12 million of that was explained by corporate.
So really the improvement in Insulation and Roofing almost offset what we knew was going to be quite a weak quarter in Composites and I think I've been pretty clear on this call that the first quarter in Composites was weaker than what we'd expect to see from Composites throughout the course of the year.
We would expect to see some building of performance there.
And I think if you look at our overall theme for the year when we talked on the fourth quarter call we thought the path to growing adjusted EBIT was really another great year in Roofing and enough improvement in Insulation to overcome what we thought would be some headwind in Composites and some headwind in corporate costs.
And I think basically that's what you see in the quarter.
You see improvement in Insulation that almost overcame the headwind we have from Composites that we kind of expected this would be the toughest quarter for that to happen because Composites was probably going to have its toughest quarter as it goes through the year.
And that the corporate costs were ultimately going to be the cost that we had to step up and overcome in order to grow adjusted EBIT.
With $12 million of growth in corporate in the first quarter I think that's a little bit above what we would have as the average through the year.
So we saw the quarter come together about the way we expected and when we look down and say is roofing on track for another great year the answer is yes did Composites do about what we expected the answer is yes did Insulation move towards narrowing losses the answer is yes.
And unfortunately did corporate grow the answer to that is yes and when you add it all up in a low profit quarter you can get pretty big variances on a cents per share basis versus what analyst estimates might be but we're comfortable with where we are and continue to believe that if we can grow adjusted EBIT this year with Composites kind of going through a bit of a retrenchment mode that with improving market conditions that we really position ourselves beautifully for 2013.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the Insulation comments.
If we kind of simplify the year-over-year comparison because we know EcoTouch was a bit of a favorable variance the story of this business is that it's very well structured and we certainly agree with that but we keep being disappointed on the margin side.
And the idea is if we can get volume through the business it will -- the profitability and the quality of the business will start to show through.
But if we look just even 2 years ago revenue was up $30 million versus 1Q10 but profits have basically been the same.
And yet you've structured and you had some cost saves through that process you've won some business.
So just trying to understand big picture you mentioned mix as being a negative in the quarter how concerned should we be that in the short term at least the incremental volumes might not all drop down the way we'd like.
You said a lot in that question Dennis.
I think if we look at the overall structure of the industry we think it still continues to be a great industry when we look at the demand for the product.
It's a very useful product that will go into new construction in big quantities and goes into other markets.
And in fact based on building codes we think we'll go into new construction in increasing volumes as building codes come through which we detailed a bit on our Investor Day.
I'd love to be in a position today that we knew we could get all the margin improvement we'd like to get on the price side.
I don't think we've yet said that we can believe we can do that.
So in the near term we continue to try to improve the pricing of the product while we work the cost side and we work the operating leverage side.
I think the first quarter is largely in line with the way we think about the improvement in the business and the way we think about the margin rate for the business.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify just real quickly.
How important is negative mix to the story for the rest of the year? Well I think that the least profitable segment of the Insulation -- so the Insulation business which we report externally the least profitable segment of that is clearly the portion of it which faces U.S.
new construction and U.S.
new construction in fact is the portion of the business that we expect to grow most quickly.
However when we gave our guidance of 50% operating leverage to $100 million of EBIT on one million housing starts we knew that.
So that's all factored into and included in the way we think about the businesses as it evolves over the next hopefully one year if we had any chance to get into one million housing starts by next year.
I think more likely if you look at consensus forecast how it evolves over the next kind of 2.5 years we'd potentially be in and back to one million housing starts based on NAHB or blue chip by 2014.
Your final question will come from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays Capital.
This is John [ph] actually filling in for Steve today.
So you took $130 million in unusual charges -- or you guided $130 million in unusual charges and you booked $55 million this quarter.
Do you think that the aggressive restructuring this quarter caused a disruption that we should expect to subside later in the year just specifically to the adjusted EBIT margin line? I'll make a quick comment and then I'll turn it over to Duncan so that he can kind of give more of the forward outlook.
It was a difficult quarter for our team over in Europe and I think they did a very very good job.
Most of those charges and restructuring were associated with Europe.
We enjoy generally very good relationships with our work unions and our employees.
But obviously any time you're working on something like shutting down plants or shutting down assets it's difficult.
We did have some small work stoppages and other things that would have negatively affected our results in the first quarter.
I don't think we called those out because they weren't particularly material.
But if you are following Owens Corning kind of at the local market level you would know that there were some places where we had some disruptions that certainly were in the numbers.
But I wouldn't say that they materially affected the quarter.
I think it's more forward looking the actions that we put in place here in the first quarter to try to help improve our outlook for the year.
So Duncan maybe you can talk a little bit about the forward look on charges.
Yes.
So just to kind of summarize what we've done right we've guided that we expect over the period of 2012 and 2013 that the charges associated with our restructuring actions in Europe will be about $130 million.
I think we said in the fourth quarter call that broadly speaking those would be about half cash half noncash.
We've said in the quarter that we've taken $55 million of charges and we will therefore expect that the balance of those charges would show up in the second third fourth quarter and into next year.
I think that what we've done in terms of how we present our results we have taken -- we're taking those charges out of our adjusted EBIT.
And therefore when you look at our adjusted EBIT those charges taken out they're not therefore affecting the adjusted EBIT margin line.
They will of course have an impact as we get benefits from those actions which we talked about earlier on.
That obviously will start falling through to the adjusted EBIT line.
But fundamentally the charges have been adjusted out and we'd expect to see adjustment therefore in the rest of the year and going into next year relating to those charges.
We've also kind of reflected the same thing in terms of adjusted earnings line where pro forma that out to our expected tax rate of 25% to the year on adjusted earnings.
So that's something which the impact of those charges obviously is being factored out through that as well.
So that's kind of how they flow through our results.
And as Mike talked about earlier on in terms of the benefit we'll get from those charges that will help us in terms of driving forward towards returning the Composites business to double-digit margins in 2013.
Got it got it.
That's helpful.
Then looking to Roofing obviously year-over-year was up pretty strong.
Was that all volume or was that a combination of volume and the -- was it 3 pricing actions you took last year? Yes.
In the first quarter the performance of the Roofing business was largely driven by volume.
So we saw price through the second half of last year but we reported today that prices in the first quarter were really flat with about where they were this quarter last year.
So some of the buy activities and other things that we saw in the first quarter have caused that price to kind of revert back to about where we were a year ago.
We did not have much in the way of price activity or pricing actions from Owens Corning in the first quarter.
Our price actions were early second quarter so we do expect that the price actions we've taken will have some benefit in terms of improving our margins and overcoming the asphalt inflation we did see in the first quarter.
Got it.
Then just on the margin could you quantify the headwind that was experienced due to asphalt? Yes.
We don't break that out separately.
I mean I think if you look at the overall revenue growth in the business and then the EBIT growth in the business obviously the EBIT growth in the business was below the average margin rate if you just look at the marginal numbers.
So the marginal growth did not produce as many dollars of EBIT as the overall average EBIT of the business.
I think that's largely attributable to asphalt inflation.
Okay.
Well very good.
Thank you everybody for joining us on today's call.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Mike with a few closing comments.
Sure.
Thank you Thierry.
First of all we appreciate everyone for dialing in and their ongoing interest in our company.
We spent time on today's call I think first talking a bit about our macro environment.
We do think that there's a good market environment for the company this year.
It's well below the long-term potential we see for our markets but we did report today that we feel comfortable that global industrial production the recovery in the U.S.
housing market where we see reroof demand where we see storm demand while a lot of those macros have a lot of uncertainty in them certainly what we've seen in the first 100 days of the year has given us some confidence that we are going to have nice opportunity in 2012 to produce great results as a company.
Our story for the year when we talked about the year in the fourth quarter was that we thought we would significantly narrow losses in Insulation Roofing would produce another very strong year financially that Composites would have a great year from a cash flow perspective but would have some challenges on the earnings side and that the strength of our portfolio would come together to produce a year of some growth in adjusted EBIT and very strong cash flows.
When we look at the first quarter we think we're clearly on track with that game plan.
Insulation did narrow its losses for the quarter and positioned itself well for an improving market.
Roofing had another outstanding quarter with great top line growth and significant improvements in its EBIT and also we are quite confident I think on today's call regarding the pricing outlook and our ability to recover inflation in that business.
And we believe Composites executed and got done a lot of very important actions in the first quarter that positioned the business as we work our way through 2012 for ongoing improvement in the business heading into 2013 outlook of double-digit operating margins.
We continue to feel great about the portfolio of businesses that we operate.
We think our execution is good.
We obviously have a lot of work to do.
We think we can produce great value for our shareholders in the near term and certainly are excited about the prospects for the company as we look to the midterm of improving markets and $1 billion of EBITDA and 1 million housing starts.
We look forward to talking to you again on the second quarter call and appreciate your interest in our company.
Thanks.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2012 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
My name's Allison and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Allison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us today for today's conference call in review of our business results for the second quarter of 2012.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and CEO; and Duncan Palmer Chief Financial Officer.
[Operator Instructions] Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed the 10-Q that detailed our results for the quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the second quarter and first half of 2012.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the slides at owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investors section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
Second these statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.
This presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP are found within the financial tables of our earnings release.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded items that we believe are unrepresentative of our ongoing operations to arrive at adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparisons.
We typically exclude significant nonrecurring items such as the impact of the restructuring actions discussed in our most recent earnings call.
We believe that adjusted EBIT is helpful to investors for comparing our results from period to period.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the second quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 25% in line with our anticipated annual effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2012.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by CFO Duncan Palmer.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thanks Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our second quarter 2012 results.
Owens Corning revenue was $1.4 billion in the second quarter down 4% compared with the same period last year.
Adjusted EBIT was $117 million down from $135 million 1 year ago.
While we did demonstrate financial progress in the quarter it was not sufficient to support our prior guidance.
As we disclosed earlier today in our press release we now anticipate full year adjusted EBIT in the range of $360 million to $420 million.
Substantially all of this reduction and the associated range is a result of our current outlook for our Roofing business which Duncan and I will discuss in our prepared comments.
As I do each quarter let me review our performance against the commitments and outlook I've previously provided.
We said we would continue to make progress towards our goal creating an injury-free work place.
As of June 30 our year-to-date rate of injuries has increased 13% over our full year 2011 performance.
As you know we've achieved 10 consecutive years of safety improvements reducing the number of injuries in our company by more than 90% during this period.
Given this performance the bar for continued improvement is extremely high.
We know that we are up to the challenge and remain committed to the pursuit of our goal of 0 injuries.
We said that we expected another great year for our Roofing business in 2012 reflecting some carryover of 2011's storm demand improvement in the reroof market and modest improvement in new construction.
Coming into the year we had expected that carryover storm demand and an improving U.S.
housing market would allow us to get off to a fast start and deliver another year of 20% margins.
While the business continues to operate at a high level of profitability we now believe that the combination of first quarter competitive intensity persistently high asphalt cost and the volume weakness that we've begun to see in the last 6 to 8 weeks will not allow us to sustain the margins that we've grown accustomed to over the last 3 years.
We set our Insulation business with significantly narrow losses in 2012.
Insulation significantly narrowed its losses in the quarter to $16 million from $35 million 1 year ago on improved sales volume and excellent operating leverage.
Through the first half of the year the business reduced losses to $50 million down from $85 million in 2011.
We expect to further improve the financial performance of our Insulation business in the second half of the year and to significantly narrow losses in 2012 as a result of higher volumes continued cost leverage and announced price increases.
We said we would transform our composites operation into a global network of low delivery cost assets with a commitment to achieving significant progress against this goal this year.
The restructuring of our European assets is on track with all European consolidations and closures announced and on schedule.
In addition we are on track with the startup of new capacity in Mexico and Russia.
Finally we showed good progress against our inventory reduction goals in the quarter which will accelerate in the third quarter.
As a result we are moving to a cost position that will produce stronger financial performance in the second half of 2012 particularly in the fourth quarter.
On the basis of this progress the business remains positioned to achieve double-digit margins in 2013.
We said that we would grow adjusted EBIT this year.
As we announced this morning we've revised our EBIT growth expectations for the year to a range of $360 million to $420 million due to the recent weakness in the roofing market and the impact on margins from higher asphalt cost.
Finally we said 2012 would be a year of strong cash generation.
We remain on course for strong cash flow this year.
We continue to expect high levels of free cash conversion over the next 5 years up to 100% of adjusted earnings on average.
Based on our cash outlook and continued confidence in achieving our midterm earnings goals we repurchased 2.6 million shares of common stock in the second quarter of 2012.
Now let's turn to a review of our business segments and our outlook beginning with our Building Materials businesses.
Roofing delivered $123 million of EBIT in the second quarter down from $141 million 1 year ago.
When the business benefited from strong storm volumes as we reported last quarter our April pricing actions were well executed however an announced June price increase was deferred to the third quarter.
While market prices are up versus last year persistent high asphalt cost and competitive intensity during the first quarter have led to margin compression relative to our first half expectations.
Our current outlook is that second half volumes will be weaker than those in the second half of 2011.
We do not believe that we are positioned to grow EBIT in Roofing in 2012.
In July we acquired the remaining noncontrolling interest in Northern Elastomeric Inc.
a manufacturer of self-procured roofing and specialty underlayments.
While this acquisition or investment is not financially material we are pleased to be able to better serve our customers with innovative self-adhered roofing products and to expand our system of roofing products and high performance accessories.
Overall the Roofing business remains positioned for another strong year.
And we remain confident in our long-term expectations for margins of mid-teens or higher in this business.
Second quarter insulation revenues grew by 4% year-over-year benefiting from a 22% increase in lagged U.S.
housing starts.
Insulation narrowed its losses by $22 million in the second quarter compared to 1 year ago and through the first half of the year losses have been reduced by $35 million compared with the first half of 2011.
First half operating leverage was strong and provides nice momentum for continued improvement in the second half with seasonally stronger volumes.
We also benefited from price appreciation on both a sequential and year-over-year basis.
With Insulation fundamentals continuing to improve we remain focused on taking full advantage of this growth with strong execution in manufacturing pricing and commercial initiatives.
Composite EBIT of $34 million improved on a sequential basis from $23 million the first quarter of 2012.
Volumes grew modestly in the second quarter both sequentially and year-over-year despite weakness in the global economy.
In particular we continue to be impacted by weakness in Brazil and India which are financially and strategically important to our business.
First half European demand was weak but in line with expectations.
Through the quarter the outlook of our European customers grew more pessimistic with little expectation of a second half improvement.
Globally the U.S.
market has been our bright spot where we have experienced predictable demand and a strong competitive position.
I'd like to take a few moments to provide an update on our overall asset strategy in Composites.
The European restructuring is on schedule towards full implementation.
We've announced all our intended actions and received all the required approvals to fully execute our plan.
We have benefited from getting started early this year and acting decisively in Europe.
We are underway with the successful startup of our melter in Mexico which is on plan and receiving positive feedback from our customers.
We expect to start up our Russian expansion in the third quarter.
As for China you may recall that last year we said we would be 12 to 18 months behind schedule in loading our facility there.
This plant is now fully loaded which is 12 months later than our original plan.
The result of our asset strategy in Composites is that we have added capacity in key product lines and geographies and will have low-cost assets on the ground to support our customers and accelerate the transition to the low-delivered-cost asset base that we discussed at our Investor Day.
We are pleased with the progress that we are making with this transformation.
The Composites business has consumed substantial investment over the past 2.5 years for new facilities in China Mexico and Russia.
At our current forecasted growth rate for global industrial production we do not anticipate that we would need to invest in additional melters to meet market demand for at least 2 years.
Our Composites agenda will focus on improving our margins operating our assets well and migrating to a low-delivered-cost network.
Our teams are prepared to respond to the market conditions we face and are focused on strong execution across our businesses in pricing productivity and customer responsiveness.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver improved second half performance and strong cash generation for the year.
We continue to position our businesses to achieve our midterm profitability goals of $1 billion of EBITDA on 1 million annual U.S.
housing starts and continued global economic growth.
Duncan will now walk through the details of our segment performance and other key financial developments in the quarter.
After which I will return with some closing comments prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Duncan? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike noted earlier our second quarter results represent a significant improvement over first quarter profitability.
However in the second quarter we saw weaker Roofing performance than we had expected.
As a result we have revised our full-year adjusted EBIT expectation to a range of $360 million to $420 million based on the outlook for Roofing in 2012.
Let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's news release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported second quarter 2012 consolidated net sales of $1.4 billion down 4% compared with the same period a year ago.
Our Insulation business grew 4% on improved demand net sales in our Roofing business were down 6% on lower sales volumes and net sales in our Composites business were down 6% due primarily to foreign currency translation.
In a moment I will review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT.
As Thierry noted at the beginning of the call this is our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the second quarter of 2012 was $117 million compared to $135 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 2012 were $66 million or $0.54 per diluted share compared to $85 million or $0.68 per diluted share in 2011.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $91 million including accelerated depreciation related to the asset restructuring in Europe.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $91 million.
We expect that full-year capital spending will be approximately $340 million.
This is about 10% higher than our depreciation and amortization for the year excluding the impact of the asset restructuring in Europe.
Next let me reconcile our second quarter adjusted EBIT of $117 million to our reported EBIT of $85 million.
Our European restructuring actions resulted in $32 million of charges in the second quarter.
As we have previously disclosed these actions will contribute to the transformation of our global Composites network to low-delivered-cost assets and position us to achieve double-digit EBIT margins in our Composites business in 2013.
We continue to anticipate incurring charges of approximately $130 million related to these actions in 2012 up to the first half of 2013.
Now please turn to Slide 6 and I will review our adjusted EBIT performance comparing second quarter 2012 with the same period a year ago.
Our Insulation business narrowed losses by $22 million on improved sales volumes manufacturing productivity and improved capacity utilization.
In our Roofing business EBIT declined by $18 million driven primarily by persistent higher asphalt costs and lower storm demand.
In our Composites segment EBIT declined $21 million as margins were negatively impacted by inflation slightly lower selling prices and the impact of the rebalancing supply and demand in our manufacturing network.
Overall adjusted EBIT for the company declined $18 million.
We have previously said that we expect corporate expenses in 2012 to be between $110 million and $120 million.
We now expect corporate expenses to be approximately $100 million based on cost control actions and our reduced expectation for variable compensation expense.
With that review of the key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 7 where we provide a more detailed review of our businesses starting with Building Materials.
In the second quarter Building Materials net sales were $945 million a 3% decline compared to the prior year with higher sales in Insulation being more than offset by a decline in roofing sales.
Building Materials delivered $107 million in EBIT in the second quarter of 2012 a 4% increase compared with the same period in 2011.
The following 2 slides present the results in more detail by highlighting the 2 businesses within our Building Materials segment.
Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were $605 million a 6% decline compared with the same period a year ago.
We experienced record storm demand in the second quarter of 2011 which resulted in a difficult comparison.
EBIT in the quarter was $123 million down $18 million compared to the same period in 2011 driven largely by higher asphalt costs and lower sales volumes.
At the beginning of the year we said that we believe the underlying reroof and new construction markets would grow in 2012 driven by increased U.S.
housing activity and that based on a return to more normal storm activity in 2012 the overall U.S.
roofing shingle market would be down in the mid-single digits year-over-year.
Based on what we have seen year-to-date including weakness we have seen in shipments in recent weeks we continue to expect the U.S.
roofing shingle market to be down versus 2011 unless we see an active storm season in the second half of the year.
For the quarter EBIT margins were down compared to 2011 while prices were higher than last year higher asphalt costs caused margin compression during the quarter.
We had expected to fully recover asphalt inflation.
Although we saw oil prices weaken during the second quarter asphalt prices have remained high during the spring and summer.
We executed well on our April price increase however our announced June price increase has been deferred to the third quarter due to competitive pressure.
As a result EBIT margins through the first half of the year have been about 17% compared to 19% last year.
Although we expect the second half margins will be stronger than the first half we do not expect full year margins to reach the 20% level we saw in 2011.
The business remains positioned for another year of strong financial performance although not at the level of profitability we have seen in recent years.
Now Slide 9 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
Net sales in Insulation of $340 million were up 4% from the same period a year ago reflecting higher sales volumes as a result of a 23% increase in lagged U.S.
housing starts and strong commercial execution across the business.
Volumes have improved significantly in the segments of our business that face U.S.
new construction.
However these segments have some of the lowest prices in our business and so the impact of this growth on our overall revenue growth rate is somewhat muted.
The business narrowed losses to $16 million in the second quarter from $38 million 1 year ago increased sales provided incremental margin across our Insulation business.
In addition increased production drove higher capacity utilization.
Manufacturing costs were lower on improved productivity.
We have initiated pricing actions across several of our markets which we believe will benefit our second half performance.
In the second quarter operating leverage measured as the ratio of incremental EBIT to incremental sales year-over-year was in excess of 100% and year-to-date operating leverage is over 60%.
We have previously said that the business could produce about $100 million of EBIT at 1 million annual U.S.
housing starts or about 50% average operating leverage compared to 2011 levels.
As we said on our first quarter call when our operating leverage was below 50% and this quarter when our operating leverage is over 100% our operating leverage guidance is a medium-term point-to-point estimate and will vary quarter-to-quarter driven by factors such as production timing.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver on this goal.
As the U.S.
housing market continues to recover we expect to see further sales growth.
On the basis of improved volumes continued cost reduction and pricing execution we continue to believe that the Insulation business will significantly narrow losses in 2012.
As I remind you on each of our quarterly call this is a great business in a well-structured industry.
Owens Corning's PINK Insulation is a powerful and enduring brand.
We are the clear market leader well-positioned to return to historical performance levels when demand improves as we know it will.
Now I will ask you to turn your attention to Slide 10 for a review of our Composites business.
Net sales in our composites business for the second quarter of 2012 were $498 million a 6% decrease compared to the same period in 2011.
Second quarter sales were unfavorably impacted by approximately $25 million in foreign currency translation and approximately $10 million related to the second quarter 2011 divestiture of our facility in Capivari Brazil.
Excluding the impact of these items sales grew over the same period in 2011 as stronger sales volumes in the quarter more than offset the impact of a low single-digit decline in selling prices.
The strength in volumes continues to be supported by a strong North American market.
Consistent with our expectations the European market was down year-over-year although compared to the first quarter our European shipments grew.
We continue to see lower growth in the Brazilian and Indian markets based on weakness in those economies.
EBIT for the quarter was $34 million compared to $55 million in the same period last year due to year-over-year inflation slightly lower selling prices and the impact of balancing supply and demand in our manufacturing network.
We reduced finished goods inventory by more than $20 million in the quarter and started up our new facility in Mexico.
We believe prices have stabilized during the second quarter.
Year-over-year inflation was largely driven by higher energy costs in certain parts of the world.
In the U.S.
natural gas prices continue to provide a cost benefit to our operations.
We continue to monitor closely the energy price environment around the world.
We still expect the global glass reinforcements market to grow in 2012.
In this environment we continue to expect stronger financial performance in the second half of the year.
The third quarter will be impacted by our supply actions taken to reduce finished goods inventory further by about $40 million and by startup costs associated with our asset expansions in Mexico and in Russia.
By year end we expect to have positioned our European business to be more competitive to have significantly increased the percentage of our assets to the low-delivered-cost and to benefit from improved manufacturing economics across our network.
Our goal is to have reduced finished goods inventories by about $70 million in a market that is continuing to grow with stable pricing.
On a growing revenue base we are confident that our Composites business will achieve double-digit margins in 2013.
Let me now turn your attention to Slide 11.
Our $2.2 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
In 2012 our advantage tax position is expected to deliver significant cash tax savings and our cash taxes paid in 2012 will be about $30 million.
As a result of successful tax planning initiatives we continue to expect our effective tax rate to be about 25% for the full year.
Our long-term effective tax rate is still expected to be in the range of 25% to 28%.
During the second quarter we repurchased 2.6 million shares of the company's common stock for $76 million 11.1 million shares remain available for repurchase.
These share buybacks represent a return of capital to our shareholders and reflect our strong outlook for growth in earnings and free cash flow generation.
Thank you.
And I will now turn the call back over to Mike.
Thank you Duncan.
While we were disappointed to revise our guidance today we have also reported continued progress on building the performance of Owens Corning for the future in our markets and our execution.
We are seeing the beginnings of a U.S.
housing recovery and have started to demonstrate the impact that can have on our insulation results.
We are executing our plan in Composites well and are positioning this business to return to profit growth next year on lower costs and positive operating leverage and we continue to anticipate strong financial performance in our Roofing business.
Before I turn it back to Thierry I'd like to make a correction on one misstatement I made in my script.
I characterized second quarter last year operating losses in Insulation as $35 million in fact they’re $38 million.
So Duncan got that right that a couple of times in his comments but I didn't want there to be any confusion on that before we entered the Q&amp;A.
And with that I'll turn it back to Thierry and we'll go into the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Mike.
Allison we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on the Roofing segment.
Certainly you said for some time that you expect on a longer-term basis your margins to be at least mid-teens but I think for 2012 we were still thinking as I believe you were of 20% or better.
Can you go into more detail on your comments around competitive intensity in the first quarter that has continued into the second quarter and I presume you expect to continue into the back half of the year.
What's driving that? Are you actually seeing pricing slip from first quarter levels? That's my first question.
This is Mike.
Yes we talked about this on the first quarter call and maybe I'll go back and kind of reiterate some of those points and then roll it forward but what we saw in the first quarter this year which was I think unusual relative to what we've seen over the last 2 or 3 years was a pretty aggressive buying season with all of the manufacturers and certainly Owens Corning in order to stay competitive offering discounts on purchases of shingles in the first quarter.
The result of that was that the early April price increase had the net effect of not only taking those buys out of the market but also increasing the invoice price of the shingles.
So we really had a fairly dramatic increase in the price of shingles early in the second quarter which gave customers a big incentive to want to bring in a lot of inventory in the first quarter and I think we characterized our first quarter volumes as being quite strong and I think even on the call we said we probably would've been happy to have a little bit less volume in the first quarter because we knew we were selling at somewhat lower margins than we would sell on a year ago basis.
I think we've seen a little bit of a carryover effect of that phenomenon in that so much low cost inventory was loaded into the channels that there's discrepancies today in the market in terms of some customers are working off of replenishment cost in terms of inventories they're buying some customers still have low-cost inventory from the first quarter and I think it's made things a little bit more difficult on our customers in terms of how they're managing pricing in the market.
So what we've seen in the second quarter is that not only was kind of an issue for the manufacturer like Owens Corning in the first quarter but now it's created some pricing discipline issues in the second quarter in the market for our customers in that people are working off of different inventory levels and different cost of inventory.
That didn't have a big impact on the early second quarter price increase.
I think we had good execution around that.
I think today we had had a price increase announced for June which we've deferred into the third quarter.
We are still pretty optimistic that we'll continue to make progress on pricing and that we will recover some of the asphalt cost which we've seen through the summer and continue to sustain good margins.
Really the issue we see now in Roofing is we're just going to run out of time in terms of having enough volume in the second half of the year to be able to have good enough margins and strong enough margins to make up for some of the lag that we put into the first half of the year.
So we have a bit of a margin run rate and volume on a year to go basis are kind of that those 2 things that are causing to bring our guidance down.
Research Division</strong> So I appreciate that color Mike and just to clarify before I hit my second question I don't want to -- but just the part of the question I also asked was did you see any price slippage into 2Q? It doesn't appear to be the case.
I just wanted to confirm that.
Yes we saw -- I mean second quarter prices were very nicely higher than first quarter prices and second quarter prices we've also reported are higher than they were in the second quarter of last year.
Research Division</strong> And then In terms of Insulation very solid progress there as you've been expecting.
I believe you had previously talked about the second half and correct me if I'm wrong but the second half being roughly breakeven.
Is that still the case and maybe you could talk about also the success of pricing how much was that a factor in 2Q relative to 1Q.
Yes well let me talk about the second half.
We have not given specific guidance on the second half.
Actually last year in the second half we had said that our goal in the second half of last year was to be breakeven and then as we got into the second half of last year the market was not as strong and we were about breakeven in the fourth quarter but we did not overall achieve breakeven in the second half of last year.
Given our comps in the first half of this year and of the second half of the year is always relatively stronger than the first half due to seasonality.
I think we would expect to see similar levels of improvement in the second half of the year than what we've seen in the first half so we should come positively off of last year when our losses were not very deep.
So as a result we're looking forward to a pretty good second half.
As it relates to pricing and this is a little bit -- I might be taking a minute now to talk through this issue.
We have seen price improvement in most all of our segments if you look sequentially back to the first quarter and also if you look back to prior year.
What we're seeing today is -- the fastest-growing segment for us is the U.S.
new construction segment which tends to be the lowest priced segment and I think Duncan talked about that in his comments.
So if you look at top line growth in the first half total top line in the first half is about in line with the amount of volume growth you would expect so it doesn't show a lot of pricing.
We have some mix in these numbers though so where we're seeing the growth tends to be lower price and as a result the prices isn't coming through into the top line but it is coming through segment by segment.
Research Division</strong> And just the degree of magnitude of that price in some of the segments? Yes we haven't disclosed on that.
And your next question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions here.
The first one relates to -- I was hoping you could provide a divisional breakdown or insight into your marketing and admin expenses and also your inventory this quarter.
You had very low marketing and admin relatively higher inventory so I was curious if you can describe those levels a little bit or changes in those levels either year-on-year or sequentially to division.
Let me make a few comments on that and then I'll let Duncan maybe emphasize a few of my points.
Related to inventory I think one of the achievements we talked about on the second quarter call is we did begin to make progress against our Composites inventory and we had inventory reduction which you wouldn't see in our aggregated numbers but you would see if we disclosed segment numbers.
We have had inventory reduction in Composites in the second quarter and in fact we expect that inventory reduction to accelerate in the third quarter.
So utilization levels are going to continue to be under pressure in composites as we drive for inventory reduction rather than production rates.
Through the third quarter our goal is to have most of that behind us as we enter into the fourth quarter.
So we should start to have a little bit better operating leverage in the fourth and I expressed a little bit more optimism about fourth quarter results in Composites than third.
We build a little bit of inventory in the Buildings Materials side.
Last year we were actually a bit deficient in inventory in Roofing.
We had had a very strong storm demand in the first half and pretty much had shipped out all the inventory we were capable of shipping and were kind of down to mixing stock.
This year I think we have a more balanced inventory.
We're not particularly concerned about inventory levels but we're comping versus some very low inventory levels last year.
On the G&amp;A side I'll let Duncan make some comments on G&amp;A.
I'll give a macro comment which is generally our expense control and expense discipline has really been unchanged for about the last 3 or 4 years.
We've been managing the business all of Owens Corning to flat headcount and to flat G&amp;A and really trying to reinvest in places we see growth opportunities and get productivity and cost reductions in some of the businesses that are a little bit more challenged.
Duncan any additional comments on G&amp;A? Yes I think Mike really covered it I mean Steve as you know we don't break out SG&amp;A by business segment and I don't think there's any particular theme there other than the overall theme Mike mentioned which we're both being very disciplined on the headcount point of view.
Obviously I mentioned on the call that we've reduced our outlook for corporate expenses certainly this year from $110 million to $120 million to more like $100 million.
Part of that is that we do expect versus our prior guidance to see lower variable compensation expense this year and we're also taking some cost actions across our businesses but also in corporate to be disciplined on the cost side and that we expect to see some savings out of that versus what we previously guided to.
On the inventory side I think Mike was pretty clear.
Across our businesses we're taking a lot of actions in Composites which impacted the second quarter.
We expect to also reduce finished goods inventory in the rest of the year as well and have some pretty decent finished goods inventory there.
On the Roofing side last year we were running probably a little light in inventory by the end of the second quarter and so probably this year we would expect to be running a little heavier and asphalt's obviously higher.
So that would generally mean that our inventory is a bit more expensive.
And in Insulation we're in a growing market so we're also sort of running production in the second half probably a little higher than we ran it in the first half which is as I said one of the reasons probably why our operating leverage is also better in the second quarter.
So generally speaking I think that all talks about kind of the features you talked about.
Sorry we don't break out of those numbers at a segment level but those are probably the major themes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
No that's very helpful.
So I take from your comments that the marketing expenses wasn't really such a big deal which is good to hear.
It sounds like it's more a lasting reduction to the marketing and admin which will help us going forward.
My second question relates to Composites.
I was curious if you could comment on what's underlying your outlook for next year specifically in the realm of price.
We know you've we've been taking a lot of actions related to cost and it sounds like that's well underway.
But there has been some commentary in the past about how the Composites business has negotiated contracts which tend to be somewhat more lasting in nature maybe more like annual type of negotiations.
And my sense was that a lot of those negotiations tend to happen around the fall.
I was wondering if you could provide a little color as to is fall a relatively important season for you in terms of price setting in terms of what sets the stage for the next 12 months or -- and if so if there is any of that how is the pricing outlook looking right now on the spot market? Okay let me start just with our overall optimism for why we're more bullish on 2013 results in Composites.
We disclosed today in Duncan's comments that our goal is to take out about $70 million worth of inventory and it's not a terribly difficult calculation to get back to; that's in the range of about 1/2 a month's or maybe a little bit more production in the business.
So obviously if we're producing 11.5 months' worth of production for 12 months' worth of sales this year on an annualized basis next year if we're able to match production to sales we're going to get improved utilizations and get improved operating leverage.
If we can get some growth next year 3% or 4% growth that will give us additional operating leverage in Composites and we'll be doing that on lower cost assets with high cost assets out of our network.
So improving operating leverage getting production matched to demand a little bit of demand growth and getting low-cost assets up and running and eliminating those startup costs all annualize well as we go into 2013.
We have expressed a bit more optimism about the outlook for Composites pricing.
We lost some price last year in the fall and we talked about that on our fourth quarter call and also on our first quarter call.
The fourth quarter or late third quarter tends to be an important time for Composites in terms of setting price expectations into the coming year.
The big thing that's probably helping us in the near term is demand has been relatively stable now for 12 months and companies like Owens Corning are taking action to address inventory issues that were created when the market slowed down last year.
I think the second thing we're seeing obviously is the U.S.
dollar has strengthened against most of the currencies of the world.
It might seem counterintuitive that that's good for Owens Corning but if you think about the cover bid in most parts of the world is coming from a Chinese exporter.
As the Chinese currency has tracked the U.S.
dollar while it hasn't strengthened against the dollar it has strengthened against the rupee in India it has strengthened against the real it has strengthened against the euro.
So we would expect that some of that would put pressure on to Chinese exporters that we would be able to see a better pricing environment in most of the non-U.S.
markets.
And in the U.S.
market we have very low cost assets and a great competitive position.
So if there's a place where we don't need as much relief from Chinese competition it might be the U.S.
where we believe we've got a better asset base and a stronger market position.
So all in all we're not counting on a lot of price improvement in Composites as we look to our outlook.
We are not thinking that prices will continue in a downtrend through the second half though we are expecting that we're in a stable to upward moving price environment depending on the region of the world and the product line.
And your next question comes from Will Randow of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a question in terms of what is the optimal level of debt leverage and do you think about that from a debt to EBITDA perspective? And given how much dry powder or cash do you think you have to repurchase shares here? Okay.
Let me make a few comments and then I'll turn that one to Duncan also.
Let's start with we are an investment-grade company.
We have an investment-grade credit rating from 2 of the 3 rating agencies and that is important to us.
So we see operating within parameters to keep us investment grade as an important part of our overall financial strategy.
At this point in the market at this point in the cycle we'd be looking at probably debt to EBITDA as being a key variable for us.
As we go through the cycle as you get into better times and hopefully we do see a return back to housing starts in the mid-millions and a better Roofing market and a robust market that supports much higher levels of EBITDA for our business I don't know that you would necessarily expect to see our overall debt level go up with that.
So we tend to look at our debt and our leverage through the cycle and that's consistent with our philosophy of keeping long maturities and managing our balance sheet for predictability of repayments and predictability of liquidity.
In terms of near-term liquidity I'll let Duncan talk a little bit about what our near-term liquidity situation looks like.
Yes thanks Mike.
I mean so we talked on the call about a couple of things.
I mean as we look out into sort of the medium term we think our free cash flow conversion of adjusted earnings through the free cash flow over the next 5 years will average about 100% and that's pretty good.
So we do expect to have particularly in the context of a recovering U.S.
housing cycle quite a lot of free cash flow disposable in the sort of a more short-term so to compare this year to last year.
We talked about this as being a strong free cash flow year I think one of the reasons for that is that we will be -- last year we used cash for working capital.
This year we see that as a source of cash so quite a big swing there.
We talked specifically about the cash flow we're going to throw off out of finished goods inventory and in Composites and a specific line of sight to that.
So that's one thing that goes into that.
We'll be contributing quite a lot less into the pension this year from a cash flow point of view than we did last year.
So I think that's another contributor to that.
And obviously our cash tax position continues to be a very valuable asset for us and we don't expect to spend much more than about the $30 million of cash taxes this year as indeed we did last year.
So there's a lot of elements that support our free cash flow conversion both in terms of the short term and the long term.
Most of our free cash flow does show up in the second half of the year.
That's kind of the seasonality of our business and our working capital cycle.
Mike talked a little bit about new capacity in composites over the next couple of years.
We have said that we do expect CapEx depreciation to be in the sort of range of CapEx being about 110% of depreciation certainly this year and sort of over the next few years.
And so there'll be a lot of free cash flow and that will provide us for availability of liquidity and of cash flow to return capital to shareholders and also to look at ways of using cash flow such as value-adding M&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> I don't mean to beat a dead horse but regarding Roofing margins I guess how should we think about those tracking in the third and fourth quarter? I understand you have a competitor bringing on capacity later this year.
In addition I understand historically you've achieved about 5 percentage points of margin expansion from taking material out of the shingle and new production lines.
But have competitors caught up with your technology? Yes the question around how to think about second half operating margins in Roofing we think the biggest impact on operating margins is in the second half from where we are right now will likely be the effects of volume and absorption.
So we think we're just looking at weaker volumes in the second half than what we had in the first and weaker volumes for the full year 2012 than what we saw in 2011 which is consistent with what we've been seeing through the year.
And that we're coming out of the second quarter with a margin profile that's very attractive 20% margins in the second quarter are something we're happy with but not margins that are high enough that will allow us to sustain the level of EBIT and the level of operating margins that we produced last year.
So we are expecting that operating margins for the full year will be less than 20% and that's kind of building on where we are year-to-date in terms of the progress going forward.
There is -- ICO's bringing a facility on in the Southeast in the fourth quarter.
We've talked about that on other calls.
I mean this is -- it's a big market we hope a growing market.
We're comping negatively this year because of the amount of storms that we had in 2011 but generally we would expect in 2013 2014 that you'd see growth in new construction; that as home prices have now begun to stabilize as the equity in homes has stopped falling that you'd start to see more reroof demand going with existing home sales and that we would see generally a growing market in new homes and reroof for Roofing and that the growth in the market would help the market absorb some new capacity.
A new facility like the one that ICO's putting in the Southeast probably represents 2% or 3% of the overall capacity of the industry based on our estimates.
So we don't think that this creates a significant capacity overhang.
ICO is an existing participant in the market also so they have as much interest in seeing to it that that capacity comes up into the market in an effective way as the other participants in the market would.
So we don't shrug that off but we don't think that's a big game changer in terms of our outlook for how the industry will perform through the second half or how they'll perform -- how our business will perform in 2013.
Research Division</strong> And have competitors caught up with their new production lines in terms of the technology you think you have? Well we do a lot of competitive testing of our competitors' products as I imagine they do of ours.
And so we know the ingredients basis and our estimates of the cost basis of what goes into a shingle.
We've said at our Investor Day and in other conferences we think there are some places in the market where we're maybe at parity with leading technology and then there are other places of the market where we think those of us with leading materials technology and shingle design are a bit ahead of some of the others.
I would say we still believe that's true.
So while there are some shingles in the market that we believe utilize -- some of them same material science and technology that we're utilizing to produce a low-cost shingle there are other shingles in the market that we believe are still significantly higher cost than the shingle we produce and as a result that does give us some natural margin benefit that we can take to the bottom line.
Your next question comes from Joshua Pollard of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted ask about Composites capacity utilization for both yourselves and for the industry and where you guys are expecting that to be in 2013.
I sort of always look at this business as your margins and your capacity utilization go hand-in-hand.
So as you guys talk about that you talked just a little bit about the third quarter you said that you had some higher inventories you're trying to get rid of.
So should we see margin come down in 3Q as well? Yes our capacity utilization today is really being influenced by our decision to get our inventories reduced.
So I kind of quantified some numbers earlier in my comments where I said our overall inventory reduction goal might be the equivalent of about 15 days of inventory or thereabouts which is about 1/2 a month of production.
The bulk of that inventory is going to come out in the second and third quarter so in effect we're going to take basically 1/2 a month of production out in about 6 months.
So as a result that's going to be a pretty aggressive rate of inventory reduction.
And have -- would have an overall impact on our capacity utilization of depressing utilization.
When we bring that back on obviously we get a lot of leverage.
We look into 2013 and 2014 and believe that we can load our facilities at comfortable but attractive rates of utilization without adding any additional capacity.
So when I kind of detailed our asset strategy in my prepared comments we think we're going to get a little bit of a capital holiday here in terms of needing to build new melters and still be able to get leverage because we can move to comfortable utilization levels but attract utilization levels which we've always characterized in Composites as being kind of high 80s low 90s much above the low 90s than you get into geographic mix product mix type issues.
We think generally most of our competitors are also focused on trying to get inventories and utilizations into a sustainable level where they can make money too.
It's a little bit harder to see exactly how that's evolving with our competitors in China.
Although we did disclose and review in our Investor Day that in terms of capacity expansions among our competitors in China our best scoring of that is since the financial crisis in 2008 the rate of capacity expansion in China is less than the rate of market growth in China and that in fact the number of tons available for export in China is on the decline.
So that's going to contribute to utilization in China as we work through time but we have not talked about a specific level of utilization for our competitors in China.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So could you put just numbers around where you are today versus that 80s low 90s that your goal is for '13 and '14? Well because of the curtailments that we're currently undergoing I mean we're well below the high 80s low 90s type utilization but that's largely self-inflicted.
I mean we're doing that in order to make sure that we get the inventories to where they need to be.
We'll have the Russian melter come up.
We have a big turnaround or rebuild in a facility in Texas which is one of our biggest lowest cost facilities in the second half of the year which will also help us in terms of inventory reductions.
We'll get a couple of plants out of Europe which will then help us in terms of utilization and then with inventories out we'll bring production back up to sales levels and when we bring production back up to sales levels with the European facilities out then we'll be into that kind of high 80s low 90s type utilization.
Research Division</strong> I would ask for a number but I'll move on to my next question.
Should you all think about moving off of housing starts as the key factor for your guidance? It seems that over the last 2 years you guys have gotten head fakes about the housing market and as the rest of us but one of the things that's been interesting is that just this quarter you actually saw some acceleration in housing starts and not just yourselves but a lot of your friends in the business have missed their at least the street vibe that do expecting it to tie with housing starts.
Is there another factor in your business that you guys are thinking about utilizing to better estimate for a look on your business.
Yes I would say we think housing starts is an important macro for us but certainly not the only macro and that in fact most of our guidance related housing starts is very specific to our Insulation business.
So while housing starts have an impact on our Roofing business and also kind of have an impact on our Composites business because some of the composites production goes into the construction market.
The big factor that drives the performance of our Insulation business is growth in new construction and its impact on capacity utilization and its impact on pricing which is highly correlated to housing starts.
So in terms of to use your term head fakes if you look at the first half of this year we disclosed that lagged housing starts are up about 23%.
Our Insulation business in total in the first half grew from $615 million to $671 million which is about 9% growth.
We've said that the overall new construction market is about 39% or 38% of our overall Insulation business that's U.S.
and Canada.
You can make an estimate for Canada maybe the U.S.
is in the low 30s or around 30s.
So if 23% -- if 30% of our Insulation business is growing at 23% that would produce 7% or 8% top line which is pretty well in line with what we've seen in the first half.
So we think there's pretty good correlation there based on what we've given you in Slide 9 on the pie chart and how we segment out where revenue comes from in Insulation and then how that will drive the overall business.
Ultimately it should drive utilization it should drive pricing it should drive volume and in a more normal market we would expect that new construction to be upwards of 60% or even as high as 65% of our overall Insulation mix.
So today it looks like a very low number just because housing while improving is still incredibly distressed versus historical levels.
Research Division</strong> I guess the other part of that Mike is it seems like the housing starts links to your volumes are coming together very nicely but I think with a lot of investors are confused by right now is it seems like the pricing component doesn't match up as well to housing starts.
You made a comment about in Insulation you got sort of lower mix on new construction that's your -- if that's been the case in the Roofing business but really I want to hope to understand how new housing starts versus repair remodel affects your pricing and margins.
Yes we're very focused on -- as we see improvements in demand and we see improvements in our utilization also seeing improvements in the price of our product in the classic residential new construction and remodel markets.
So that's an important focus of ours and I think that's an accelerant to our outlook so as we get into an environment where we're seeing both operating leverage and positive price you're going to see a further acceleration of the performance of Insulation.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> It's just going to be a follow-up on the prior question because I think you guys have actually laid out some of the data pretty well in your pie charts.
That shows new sales are up 24%.
So if I take that pie chart and I then think we've talked about this in the past where the $900 million of non-U.S.
new business you guys said was profitable throughout the cycle at your Analyst Day.
That's -- I'd say now that you're roughly $10 million EBIT that generates a rather large loss for the new side.
And I think where people get confused and I think since you guys have presented the data it would be nice if you can tie it off in a public format.
Your new businesses has had a far deeper EBIT than I think a lot of people appreciate.
So I mean could you give us a sense of how you think the operating leverage will be on that new side which based on your pie chart is at 24% year-over-year versus the other 3 businesses in the Insulation.
Yes I think the point you're making -- so let me just step back for a second to make sure that we layout the context on the question adequately.
We lay out a 4-slice pie chart on Slide 9 of our investor presentation where we break the market into international U.S.
and Canadian commercial and industrial U.S.
and Canadian residential repair and remodel and then U.S.
and Canadian new residential construction.
Generally your characterization is correct based on what we've said which is we've said our international business which is Latin America a little bit of business in Europe some things over in Asia has been profitable through the downturn in the Insulation business and it's helped us.
The Canadian and commercial -- the commercial and industrial business tends to be a little bit more specified and engineered type products and so we don't see as much pricing volatility there.
We've seen some negative operating leverage from utilization.
Some of those markets are a little bit weaker but that's been a pretty good business for us.
The residential repair and remodel business tends to be manufactured on a lot of the same assets that we manufactured new construction on.
So that business would've suffered a bit from the utilization issues associated with the new construction product.
That's classic PINK FIBERGLAS batts some of which are going into new construction some of which are going into repair and remodel where we've had real leverage issues and utilization-type issues in our facilities.
So I would say that portion of the business residential new construction being most impacted because that tends to be the most price competitive and utilization-sensitive and then the repair and remodel may be a little bit more attractive in terms of pricing but suffering from the same utilization-type issues that we would see in new construction.
That's the piece of the business that's going to need to see the most progress in terms of volumes and the most progress in terms of pricing.
Now because we think that's fairly well correlated to housing starts when we talk about growth in those segments if you think about housing starts over a 4 or 5-year period of time maybe going from 600 000 maybe back to a more normal 1.5 million which should be our average over the last 40 years you're talking about that segment growing at a 2.5x growth.
So a doubling plus another half a doubling to go from 600 000 to 1.5 million so we're talking about profound growth rates if that were to happen over the next 4 or 5 years and as a result we would expect to see lots of leverage both in terms of operating performance and pricing at some point in that cycle.
We're focused on both those issues right now and I think the first half performance demonstrates our ability to make progress albeit at still low levels of profitability in the case of that business negative profitability at some point we get enough utilization price to get all positive [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> And then the Composite I think the numbers you put out here are very much appreciated.
So if you're doing $70 million of inventory correction at call it 30% operating leverage that's $20 million incremental.
What was the headwind associated with the Mexico Russia start up plant and the Amarillo I assume changeover that are occurring in '12 for the Mexico Russia and the Amarillo that won't be there by definition in '13 to $70 million inventory corrections off 3.5% of sales.
And then can you clarify the last just on the roofing because I think there's some -- I'm a little confused versus your prior estimate of millions of squares being down let's say 5 million from 122 million to 117 million is this more of the manufacture issue because of the pre-buy as opposed to the end market falling roughly 10% in the second quarter because it seems as though the demand isn't falling as much it was just overproduction.
There were kind of 2 questions buried in there so I'll try to take them apart and at least address each of them a bit.
We said Roofing volumes through the first half are about flat with last year.
So if we have an overall outlook for the year that the Roofing market will be down slightly kind of lower mid-single digits.
Just a map of that would say it's going to have to be down more than that in the second half in order to compensate for the fact that it was flat or maybe a little bit better than flat in the first half.
Because we sold so many shingles at low margins in the first quarter it's very difficult to recover because it's a bit of 0 sum game.
I mean the inventory -- the ability to ship inventories and buy inventories in the first quarter these are not perishable.
Obviously these are 30-year 40-year lifetime shingles.
Our customers are capable of buying them storing them and putting them on roofs throughout the year.
So if we sell them out in the first quarter you've lost an opportunity to sell that shingle then in the second third or fourth quarter.
We haven't really changed our outlook for the overall performance of the roofing market and as a result of some of the trends that we've seen on margins through the first half of the year we're just not positioned in the right place relative to last year to be able to kind of comp well with the roofing business last year and therefore had to take our guidance down.
On the composites side you had asked a little bit about startup cost.
We tend to not disclose on those costs specifically.
They can be material to a quarter they're not necessarily super material to a full year.
We do have a lot of startups this year so it will give us a positive comp year-over-year.
I guess I would characterize it as think about a startup as a couple of months maybe 60 days of production where initially we're operating 20% or 30% away from where we'd like to be in by the end of those 60 days we're operating where we'd like to be so kind of a learning curve type of approach.
While it's very material to that facility can be material to a region in a quarter in terms of the overall business.
I think it's just one of the themes that gives us optimism for next year.
Very good.
Well thank you everyone for joining us for today's call.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike for a few closing remarks.
Sure thanks Thierry.
When we looked at the year as the year started we kind of had 2 thought processes around this year.
Our first thought process was we wanted to see enough improvement in Insulation that we had earnings improvement that could fund a year of correction in Composites.
And that in fact Insulation plus Composites in total could kind of comp flat versus 2011 and position both businesses then for strong leverage going into 2013.
I think that agenda is largely on track.
So if you looked through our comments on today's call looked through our numbers in fact Insulation improvement in the second quarter pretty much offsets dollar for dollar composites year-over-year comp negative and we think we've got both of those businesses in a position where they can together produce a decent year and then next year we can see both those businesses show really good progress.
We also thought this year with some momentum coming out of the fourth quarter with some storm carryover and with a decent margin structure that Roofing could comp flat or even a bit better than 2011.
I think what we've said today on this call is we've seen some things through the first 6 months of this year and recent trends on volumes that we would say we just don't think there's enough margin rate and volume on a year to go basis to get to that guidance and as a result we have brought our guidance down and we put I think a fairly healthy range out there that's reflective of the uncertainty that we have in terms of our ability to really forecast the margins and the volumes for the Roofing business on a year to go basis.
I think all of that in total though is a good news story if you look at our outlook into the midterm.
We said that we wanted to see the U.S.
housing recovery have a positive impact on insulation.
I think we're beginning to show that.
We said that we wanted to execute a plan in composites that positions the business to return to profit growth next year and I think we're beginning to demonstrate that.
And we've continued to say that we think the Roofing business is an outstanding financial performer and while it’s may be a bit below our expectations for this year the type of performance we're describing for Roofing is still outstanding performance for our company.
So we continue to be focused in the near term on delivering good operating results and strong cash flows and we continue to be focused in the midterm on making sure that we do the things in our business to improve their competitiveness and get to some of the lofty goals that we've laid out when we get to 1 million starts and continued economic growth and we think those are well within our reach.
I appreciate your interest in your company and we look forward to talking to you again about our business on the third quarter call.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chanel and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chanel and good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us for today's conference call in review of our business results for the third quarter of 2012.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this 1-hour call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-Q that detailed our results for the quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the third quarter and 9 months ended September 30 2012.
We will refer to these slides during the call.
You could access the slides on our website owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investors section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
Second these statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.
This presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP are found within the financial tables of our earnings release.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded items that we believe are unrepresentative of our ongoing operations to arrive at adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparison.
We exclude significant nonrecurring items such as the impact of the restructuring actions discussed in our most recent earnings call.
We believe that adjusted EBIT is helpful to investors for comparing core results from period-to-period.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the third quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 25% in line with our anticipated annual effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2012.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
Now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by CFO Michael McMurray.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Thanks Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our third quarter 2012 results.
Owens Corning revenue in the third quarter was $1.3 billion down 12% compared with the same period last year.
Adjusted EBIT was $81 million down from $177 million 1 year ago.
Before I discuss the key drivers contributing to our business results in the quarter let me make a few observations about the year-to-date and the overall environment in which our businesses are operating.
This has been a challenging year in terms of visibility to demand whether in the U.S.
roofing market or the impact of slower-than-expected growth across many of the global markets for our Composites business.
We're disappointed in our third quarter financial results and the need to lower our full year earnings forecast.
Despite the change in our near-term outlook we remain positive with regard to the strength of our businesses.
These are market-leading businesses operating in well-structured industries.
We have a strong brand technological leadership and manufacturing and supply chain strength to serve our valued customers around the globe.
As we disclosed earlier this month we now anticipate full year adjusted EBIT in the range of $280 million to $310 million.
This earnings outlook reflects a weaker environment for both our Roofing and Composites businesses this year.
I will discuss the specific outlook for each of the businesses in a few minutes.
Each of our businesses is making progress against the strategic objectives we've set.
Roofing is a great business with a strong market-leading position.
This business has delivered great margins in recent years.
We believe it is well positioned to sustain that performance.
Our Insulation business is benefiting from an improving housing market.
We are narrowing losses and progressing towards positive earnings.
We are proud that this business achieved profitability in the quarter for the first time in 4 years in an improving U.S.
construction market.
The Composites business is transforming its global network to low delivered cost assets while building stronger positions in markets where we are growing.
Now I'll review our third quarter results.
We continue to make progress toward our goal of creating an injury-free workplace.
Our safety performance in the third quarter improved by 18% compared with the same period 1 year ago.
As you may recall our year-to-date rate of injuries at the halfway point of the year had increased by 13% over our full year 2011 rate.
Our strong third quarter performance enabled us to bring our year-to-date safety rates in line with full year 2011 results.
Now let's turn to our Building Materials business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were $471 million a 27% decline compared with the same period 1 year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was $83 million down $73 million compared to the same period in 2011 driven largely by lower sales volume.
Let me take a moment to walk through the developments that have impacted the roofing market and our business this year.
Coming into the year we had expected that the roofing market would decline mid-single digits.
It's on a negative comparison with 2011's strong storm-related demand.
We saw very strong volumes in the first 5 months of the year.
We experienced weaker volumes in June and July as the market stalled in the mid-summer heat.
Demand began to build again at the end of July and into August.
Although volumes were still weak the weekly shipment rate continued to improve up to the point of our price increase in mid-September.
At that time we saw another significant drop in demand as well as significant reductions in the shipments of asphalt and glass that we provide to other roofing manufacturers.
We've now gone back and revisited our estimates of the overall roofing demand.
The resulting forecast is actually quite similar to our market outlook when we entered the year.
Unfortunately strong demand and storm activity early in the year had caused us to believe that both reroof and storm demand would be at the high end of our internal ranges demand estimates that we no longer believe will materialize.
We misjudged the market despite warning signs that we should have seen.
Strong purchase incentives early in the year had caused us to ship too many shingles in the first part of the year and to have done so at too low margins.
A mild winter had front-end loaded the roofing market but did not increase the market size.
Hot summer weather was keeping contractors off of roofs but was not actually deferring demand.
The weakness in demand in late September combined with the downwardly revised outlook for demand for glass and asphalt from other roofing manufacturers resulted in our decision to revise our guidance and issue the 8-K earlier this month.
Despite the weakness of the second half the overall market outlook and competitive environment support continued confidence in the Roofing business.
This is a great business with strong fundamentals and very real opportunities for improved financial performance.
Turning to Insulation.
Net sales were $384 million up 5% from the same period a year ago.
This increase reflects higher sales volumes and strong commercial execution across the business.
Insulation delivered EBIT of $3 million in the third quarter compared to a loss of $12 million in the same period 1 year ago.
Increased sales provided incremental margin across the business.
In addition increased production drove higher capacity utilization and manufacturing costs were lower on improved productivity.
As I noted earlier the third quarter represented a return to profitability in Insulation for the first time in 4 years.
We expect to further improve the financial performance of Insulation in the remainder of the year and to significantly narrow losses for the full year as a result of improved U.S.
housing starts and continued operating leverage in the business.
Net sales in our Composites business for the third quarter of 2012 were $459 million a 7% decrease compared to the same period in 2011.
Second half 2012 composites demand is being impacted by lower global industrial production particularly in Europe as well as by the weaker U.S.
roofing market.
As we communicated earlier this month our estimate for global glass fiber market demand growth in 2012 has been reduced to approximately 3% compared to the long-term historical average growth of 5%.
In order to bring our inventories in line with previously discussed [indiscernible] we've responded to this weaker environment by initiating further production curtailments.
I'd like to update you on the status of our asset strategy we're implementing in Composites.
The European restructuring we launched earlier this year is on schedule.
We have received all of the required approvals for impacted sites and are fully executing our plan.
Our decision to take decisive actions earlier this year in Europe was well timed given the continued market weakness in the European market.
We've also completed the startup of our Mexican melter.
The startup of our Russian melter is going well and our China facility which we opened last year is now fully loaded.
At our current forecasted growth rate for industrial production we don't expect to need an additional melter for at least 2 years.
We expect these actions to yield approximately $60 million in cost and productivity improvements in a modest growth environment for the coming year.
As we previously announced the global macroeconomic outlook likely delays our attainment of double-digit margins beyond 2013.
We are taking the appropriate actions to get our businesses to improve in the near term.
One of the things that I imagine is on your mind is where 2012 puts us in terms of the midterm guidance we've given on $1 billion of EBITDA in a market environment of 1 million housing starts and continued global growth.
When we provided this guidance we said that there were multiple paths to attain this goal.
We haven't seen anything that looks like a structural change in the roofing industry and our business.
And we've begun to see the required operating leverage in the improvement of Insulation.
If anything our confidence in the housing recovery has increased.
The one change we have seen is that we are now looking at Composites growth that's probably at the lower end of our range.
As we now see composites market growth and outlook trending toward the lower end of our range which supported this goal we will likely require strong performance in both Roofing and Insulation.
We're developing a track record in Insulation and are pleased with the momentum in the housing recovery.
In Roofing we will look for a reversal of some of the margin declines which we've seen this year producing margin performance more consistent with what we delivered in 2010 and '11.
We'll be able to comment on that more completely once we get to the first quarter of next year and see what happens with winter buys  and how margins evolve through late this year and early next year.
All of our management actions and focus is on getting to a position where all 3 of our businesses are achieving double-digit operating margins at the same time.
In closing let me comment on the very successful debt offering that was initiated 1 week ago today.
We issued $600 million in new bonds maturing in 2022 at an interest rate of 4.2%.
The 4.2% borrowing rate incidentally represents the lowest cost bond ever issued in the history of our company.
The intended use of proceeds is to retire up to $350 million of existing bonds maturing in 2016 and '19 and to repay outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility.
We were pleased to take advantage of the favorable market to extend the term of our current debt and believe that over the long term this action will contribute to a stronger investment-grade balance sheet for Owens Corning.
Now as I turn it over to Michael let me note how pleased I am to have him back on the this call and serving as our Chief Financial Officer.
Many of you know Michael and the board and I have great confidence in his capabilities and leadership as CFO.
Michael? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'm excited to be back with all of you now as the CFO of Owens Corning.
Before I begin I wanted to acknowledge the disappointment of our investor and analyst communities in our recent outlook revision and assure you that we share in your disappointment.
The management team understands the importance of being a reliable resource to our investors who does not take the need to revise our guidance lightly.
As Mike mentioned earlier our third quarter results were impacted by weak near-term market conditions in roofing and composites.
As previously announced we have revised our full year 2012 adjusted EBIT expectation to a range of $280 million to $310 million with the primary uncertainty attributed to roofing volumes.
Now let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's news release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we've reported third quarter 2012 consolidated net sales of $1.3 billion down 12% compared to the same period 1 year ago.
Our Insulation business grew by 5% on improved demand.
Net sales in our Roofing business were down 27% on lower sales volumes and net sales in our Composites business were down 7% primarily due to foreign currency translation.
In a moment I'll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-to-period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the third quarter of 2012 was $81 million compared to $177 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter of 2012 were $39 million or $0.33 per diluted share compared to $110 million or $0.90 per diluted share in 2011.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $89 million including $14 million of accelerated depreciation related to the asset restructuring in Europe.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $72 million.
We expect full year capital spending to be approximately $340 million.
This is about 10% higher than our depreciation and amortization for the year excluding the impact of the asset restructuring in Europe.
Next let me reconcile our third quarter adjusted EBIT of $81 million to our reported EBIT of $59 million.
The European restructuring actions which resulted in $22 million of charges in the third quarter was our only adjusting item.
Now please turn to Slide 6 and I will review our adjusted EBIT performance comparing third quarter 2012 with the same period 1 year ago.
As I mentioned previously adjusted EBIT for the third quarter of 2012 was $81 million compared to $177 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The $15 million improvement in our Insulation business was more than offset by a decline in our -- in Roofing EBIT of $73 million and a decline in Composites EBIT of $38 million.
Corporate and other was consistent with the prior year.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 7 where we provide a more detailed review of our businesses starting with Building Materials.
In the third quarter Building Materials net sales were $855 million a 15% decline compared to the prior year with higher sales in Insulation being more than offset by a decline in Roofing sales.
Building Materials delivered $86 million in EBIT in the third quarter of 2012 down from $144 million for the same period in 2011.
Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were $471 million a 27% decline compared with the same period 1 year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was $38 million (sic) [$83 million] down $73 million compared to the same period in 2011 driven largely by lower sales volumes.
For the quarter EBIT margins of 18% were down compared to the same period in 2011.
While we saw sequential improvement in price during the quarter this was offset by asphalt prices that remained high and the impact of lower demand which impacted our production leverage.
In the fourth quarter we expect seasonally weak demand will contribute to EBIT margins lower than levels seen in the first 3 quarters of 2012.
Over the past decade fourth quarter EBIT margins have generally been below third quarter EBIT margins.
This is primarily as a result of seasonality in both sales and production.
We anticipate selling prices will remain stable in the fourth quarter and contribution margins will continue to be attractive and capable of sustaining strong annualized EBIT margins.
Although we are disappointed in our current year results this business will deliver a year of strong financial performance.
Now Slide 9 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
Net sales in Insulation of $384 million were up 5% from the same period 1 year ago reflecting higher sales volumes and strong commercial execution across the business.
The business delivered EBIT of $3 million in the third quarter compared to a loss of $12 million in the same period 1 year ago.
The last time the Insulation business was profitable was in the second quarter of 2008 when seasonally adjusted lagged U.S.
housing starts were about 1 million units or approximately 28% higher than the third quarter of 2012.
Increased sales provided incremental margin across our Insulation business.
In addition increased production drove higher capacity utilization and manufacturing costs were lower on improved productivity.
Third quarter year-to-date operating leverage measured as the ratio of incremental EBIT to incremental sales year-over-year is greater than 60%.
We previously said that the business could produce about $100 million of EBIT at 1 million U.S.
annual housing starts on about 50% average operating leverage compared to 2011 levels.
As a reminder our operating leverage guidance is a medium-term point-to-point estimate and will vary quarter-to-quarter driven by factors such as production timing.
We are pleased with the track record we are beginning to establish against this critical goal for this business.
As the U.S.
housing market continues to recover we expect to see further sales growth.
We've seen sequential price improvement in our markets facing new U.S.
residential construction.
We expect continued profitability improvement in the fourth quarter as we remain focused on taking full advantage of the market growth with a strong execution in manufacturing pricing and commercial initiatives.
We are comfortable with our previous guidance that the Insulation business will significantly narrow losses in 2012.
Now I ask to take your attention to Slide 10 for a review of our Composites business.
Net sales in our Composites business for the third quarter of 2012 were $459 million a 7% decrease compared to the same period in 2011.
Third quarter sales were negatively impacted by approximately $30 million in foreign currency translation.
Year-to-date net sales were $1.4 billion a 6% decrease compared to the same period in 2011.
Year-to-date sales were unfavorably impacted by approximately $70 million in foreign currency translation which was driven largely by a 10% drop in the euro.
In addition approximately $20 million of this decline related to the divestiture of our Capivari Brazil facility in the prior year.
Excluding the impact of these items sales grew for the year-to-date period as stronger sales volumes more than offset the impact of a low-single digit decline in selling prices.
While prices are slightly down compared to the prior year prices stabilized during the second quarter and have remained stable through the third quarter.
Global composite volumes continued to grow during the third quarter at a rate consistent with the first half of the year with the exception of demand supported by the U.S.
roofing market.
EBIT for the quarter was $11 million compared to $49 million in the same period last year due to nonrecurring plant startup costs plant rebuild costs year-over-year inflation and slightly lower selling prices.
During the quarter we started up a new melter in Mexico completed the expansion of our Russian facility and completed a significant rebuild in one of our North American facilities.
While these important projects are now largely behind us we did incur costs of approximately $15 million during the quarter about 1/2 of which were not anticipated going into the quarter.
We continue to be resolute in our commitment to reduce inventory to target levels by year-end.
In response to the weaker market environment we've initiated further production curtailments in the fourth quarter.
The effects of slower demand and the impact of further curtailments to reach our inventory goals led to lower margin expectations for the business for the fourth quarter of the year.
Now let me turn your attention to Slide 11.
Our $2.2 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
In 2012 our tax position is expected to deliver significant cash tax savings and our cash taxes paid in 2012 will be about $30 million.
As a result of successful tax planning initiatives we continue to expect our effective tax rate to be about 25% for the full year.
Our long-term effective tax rate is still expected to be in the range of 25% to 28%.
As Mike mentioned with the $600 million bond offering that funded early this week -- we are pleased with the $600 million bond offering that funded earlier this week.
The transaction extends our maturities adds to liquidity and strengthens our investment-grade balance sheet.
We intend to use a portion of the proceeds to purchase up to $350 million of our outstanding senior notes through a tender offer which was announced on October 17.
Residual funds will be used to repay borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility.
As a result of the tender offer we expect to incur a fourth quarter charge of approximately $75 million associated with the extinguishment of debt.
During the quarter we repurchased 1.1 million shares of the company's common stock for $31 million.
10 million shares remain available for repurchase.
These share buybacks represent a return of capital to our shareholders and reflect our strong outlook for growth in earnings and free cash flow generation.
This is the strong outlook that supports our expectation of free cash flow conversion to adjusted net earnings of 100% on average over the next 5 years.
Thank you and I'll now hand the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
We remain positive on the strength of our businesses and our ability to respond to their markets.
Our Roofing business has delivered great margins in recent years and we believe it is well positioned to sustain that performance.
Our Insulation business is benefiting from the improving housing market and achieved profitability in the quarter for the first time in 4 years.
Our Composites business has taken decisive actions that will position it for a stronger 2013.
I appreciate your continued interest in Owens Corning.
And we'll turn the call over to Thierry to lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Chanel we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a question first regarding Composites.
Thierry Mike I think you made -- Michael rather I think you made a reference to additional rationalization.
Previously you had given a guidance I think for $70 million and in your release today you highlighted that you were substantially complete with that.
So I just wanted to get a little granularity on this comment about additional rationalization how much more.
And what do you mean by substantially complete? Okay Stephen.
This is Mike.
Let me make a few comments then I'll turn it over to Michael.
I think we're talking about 2 different things on the call today and I want to make sure that we clarify those.
We have our overall asset strategy which deals more with our fixed assets regarding the facilities in Europe that we're shutting down the expanded melter in Russia the new melter in China -- I mean the new melter in Mexico and also the new plant in China which is now loaded.
I think we feel very good about the fact that we made a lot of progress in the third quarter on that agenda.
We got our really very important significant plant in Amarillo Texas went through a rebuild which also hurt the quarter and we're really looking now through the rearview mirror at a lot of the assets actions that we needed to take and feel like the next couple of years are focused on really matching the right products to the right plants with the right customers at the right margins and optimizing our asset mix optimizing our cost position and really trying to drive performance of the business.
We also talked about inventory curtailments and the need to further curtail inventories in the third quarter based on demand weakness.
I think Michael's comments were more specific to that issue and I'll have him address that.
Michael? Thanks Mike.
Yes Stephen as you know as we talked about in our second quarter call we entered the year with Composites inventory being a little bit ahead of where we want it to be and we've had an active program both in the second and third quarter to curtail inventory and take it down to go where we wanted to get by the end of the year.
I actually think we did say in the second quarter call that goal was on the order of $70 million.
Because of the weakness that we have experienced in the third quarter a large part of it being in our Roofing business it's forced us to curtail or take additional curtailments in the fourth quarter.
I would tell you as we're progressing through the fourth quarter the target that we've set out is that we're largely on track to meet that goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That is very helpful although I didn't hear a number but okay.
Let me switch if I could to Roofing.
Roofing is -- I think as you -- I think your comments are appreciated that perhaps you didn't catch the trends in volume as quickly as maybe you should have and I appreciate your candor there.
I do think that your main issue with Roofing though is margins and particularly as it relates to whether or not discipline can hold in the industry in the winter months to avoid what we had earlier this year which was a lot of volume-related discounting.
I know that you have talked about the fact that you have a commitment to a discipline in that regard.
But also I believe in the past you mentioned that you can't control what others in the industry will likely do and that historically you have needed to match what some competitors do.
I guess I was looking to see if you had a stronger comment in that regard that can give investors a little bit more comfort that even in a difficult winter environment we're not going to see a repeat of what happened in the beginning of this year.
Is there anything more that you could add there in terms of color? Sure Stephen I'd be happy to address that and in fact let me start by agreeing with your opening comment which is there's a bit of a turmoil in our guidance related to the business based on our lack of ability to effectively forecast demand.
I addressed that in my comments.
We're looking at that and taking that very seriously.
In fact when you step back from the year the more important issue on an ongoing basis is less related to our ability to forecast quarterly demand numbers much more related to what is the long-term reasonable margin expectation for the business.
This year in the first quarter I think you characterized it the way we have which is we sold an awful lot of shingles at deep discounts and in doing that we gave our distribution partners an incentive to want to buy a lot of shingles and try to carry low-cost inventory deep into the year.
Now winter buys have always made some sense in the Roofing business.
They've been around for a while and I'd characterize it as the winter buys they've tried to accomplish 3 objectives.
The first objective was to help the manufacturers level-load our production a bit.
It's a seasonal business.
There's more demand on the roof in the second and third quarter.
It's nice to be able to give your employees year-round employment.
It's nice to have -- to produce some shingles in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of the year.
And so I think the manufacturers have some incentive to level-load their facilities although we've been very clear it's not an operating leverage or a fixed cost business it's a materials conversions business so you can go too far in that thinking about trying to level-load your facilities.
And that certainly doesn't drive our thinking.
The second opportunity is typically and historically asphalt costs have been quite a bit weaker in the winter than they have in the summer because of paving.
I think we've seen some things in the last couple of years where we've been clear that we're not seeing the kind of falloff in asphalt costs in the winter that we had seen historically so the winter-fill opportunities the winter-buy opportunities on the raw material side have become much weaker and that has to do with refinery economics.
When the refineries do turnarounds cokers in the refineries which are destroying the low end of the cracker and producing less asphalt.
So that's a less pronounced impact.
And then the third which is a market-facing impact is it's logical and sensible for manufacturers to want to encourage distributors to put some inventory on the ground in the first part of the year because it's very difficult to forecast when will the fall come when will the snow thaw and when will roofing season begin and we certainly wouldn't want to miss orders early in the year because our distribution partners aren't positioned with inventory to be able to meet the onset of the market sometime in the late February to early April timeline in most of the country.
So there have been 3 good reasons why we've done winter buys and I would say from Owens Corning's perspective this year we went 0 for 3 which is we really didn't see a significant reduction in asphalt cost.
We actually had a significant discounting that in fact we produced and sold well more than 1/4 of our annual demand in the first quarter so we were unsuccessful in level-loading our facilities.
And I think most importantly we pushed so much low-cost inventory out into the market that many of our distribution partners and customers have struggled in the markets to maintain reasonable margins and reasonable price discipline because there's so much low-cost inventory sitting in the market that even pricing discipline on the other side of distribution has been a bit more of a challenge for this year.
So we didn't really help our distributors make a bunch more money.
We pushed too much production in the first quarter from our standpoint and we passed along margin as opposed to lower asphalt costs.
What we're seeing in the industry today is it would be our goal to go back to the central tenets of what we're trying to achieve with winter buys.
We think there could be some opportunity for a bit of discounted asphalt in the winter but not at the levels of what we've seen historically.
To the extent there is some opportunity for us to buy asphalt more cheaply we'd be prepared to go back into the market and try to give our customers some incentive to buy some shingles in the first quarter to help us level-load facilities to pass along some of those asphalt savings and to put them in a position where they're prepared for winter to end and for the roofing season to begin.
We would certainly endeavor to do that at much level lower levels of discounts than what we did this year so that we don't improperly incentivize the market and also hurt our customers in terms of their ability to price.
With that said it is a competitive market.
And if in fact we see aggressive winter buys in the market this year we'll really have no choice but to match them because on a variable margin basis you really can't afford to let volume and share slip out of your business in the first quarter.
You can't make it up for the remainder of the year.
It's just lost opportunities.
So it is going to require that we're able to go and get back to a stance in the market where winter buys go back to something that resembles more of their historical objectives and will look much different than what we saw in the first quarter of this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
Can you confirm whether or not -- the intercompany sales decline was that primarily related to Composites sold into your Roofing? And was there any destocking that happened internally given the sudden decline in roofing demand? I'll let Michael correct me if I get any of this wrong but I'll take that one Mike.
Most of our intercompany sales are in fact sales from our Composites division to our Roofing division.
So by and large what you see in the intercompany line tends to be transfers from our Composites business which carries production responsibility for the manufacturing of the glass.
We transfer at a market price but Composites also carries the asset so Composites has clear alignment in terms of return on capital goal which is a very important goal for us.
So what you would see in that is intercompany decline related to that transfer.
On a consolidated basis though the inventories -- if we saw destocking or not it wouldn't show up in the inventory number because in fact we pool the inventories on a consolidated basis.
So clearly the Roofing business is going to want to carry the amount of inventory that's appropriate to its production outlook to the extent they don't take mat or glass from our Composites business that's going to end up on the Composites balance sheet.
Composites has its balance sheet goals so they're going to take curtailment in order to try to reduce those inventory levels on their side of the balance sheet.
So that's how that would work internally.
Michael did I get anything wrong there? Nice job Mike.
And on the Insulation segment is there anything unusual impacting the incremental margin in that business? Or another -- said another way should we expect the incremental margins to slow from where they were in this past quarter? Yes I mean I would say we continue to feel comfortable with this 50% operating leverage guidance.
So in the first quarter I think we were subjected to a bit of criticism because we came in below that goal and at that time we explained timing of demand timing of shipments and timing of production can change that result from quarter-to-quarter.
I think if you look at what we've said in the second quarter we were well above that goal and tried to take little or no credit for that saying that timing of demand timing of production and timing of shipments can affect that.
I think that's kind of where we are in the third quarter.
We're in the high-60s year-to-date.
That's still going to be affected not just by our U.S.
new construction business but also the performance of some of the non-new construction businesses like our business in Canada our engineered business our business in Asia.
I think we would probably be reluctant to get more aggressive about that operating leverage goal until we got to a point in time where we felt like we were getting significant and repeatable margin-enhancing pricing.
That certainly is something we believe will happen through this cycle.
It's typically happened through the Insulation cycle and today obviously prices are way below average prices for the last couple of decades certainly well below the kinds of prices we saw in the mid-2000s.
So I think you could see some movement in the rate of operating leverage once it becomes a price and leverage story.
Today it is still predominantly a leverage story although Michael did report that sequentially we felt positively about what we saw in pricing from the second to third quarter in virtually all of the businesses inside Insulation.
Our next question comes from the line of Garik Shmois of Longbow Research.
First question just on Insulation revenue growth up mid-single digits.
But when you lag 2Q housing demands into the third quarter I think we were expecting a little bit more on the top line.
I was just wondering I know there's some mix involved but maybe if you could provide a little bit more color on what was happening on remodeling and maybe in the international markets and how much those maybe have contributed to an offset with the new housing growth in Insulation.
Sure Garik.
Happy to do that.
Thanks for the question.
I think if you look at what is it Slide 9 in our investor presentation we put up that little pie chart in the lower left-hand corner and we do that on a quarterly basis so you can kind of see the evolution of the individual segments.
I know we do have some analysts and investors who kind of back-calculate what that means in terms of revenue by quarter and look at the changes in revenue.
So we disclose that.
We don't disclose the actual revenue numbers and I'd be clear about that.
These are pretty broad estimates so while we think directionally we're giving you pretty good information here if we were to try to actually quantify revenue for each one of these segments it's pretty hard for us to do.
We estimate it based on channels and product line.
I think what you'd see is that actually the new residential construction portion of our business grew pretty well in line with what housing starts did.
You have to remember that in that pie chart we report U.S.
and Canada.
Canada today is pretty significant because Canada hasn't really gone through a housing cycle the way the U.S.
has so it's a much larger percentage of that pie chart.
Canada has been relatively flat as we've seen the U.S.
recovery so it's slowing down the rate of improvement in the new residential construction slice because it's flat and the U.S.
is growing 20-plus percent.
I think what you'd see is the other segments are relatively flat.
Repair and remodel has not been terribly robust.
I think that's probably a byproduct that we had a mild winter last winter so we didn't have a lot of people coming out of the winter saying "I need to do something to insulate my home." We haven't yet seen cold weather this year.
So I don't think you have people coming home and feeling like their house is not comfortable and wanting to try to take an action to improve the comfort of their home.
So through time we believe the repair and remodel market should be a single-digit growth market.
I don't think it's necessarily quite at this time growing at those levels.
But as we work through the numbers and look at the different segments we certainly are confident that we're seeing the U.S.
new residential construction translate into volume for that segment of our business in the way we're reporting revenue.
Okay.
And then I guess just switching to Composites.
The question is in 2012 you had some price weakness obviously in the segment particularly as you entered into the annual contracts with excess inventory at the end of last year.
You're working on inventory right now but if you could provide maybe your thoughts on how you're going to be managing these pricing negotiations for 2013 and the way your outlook would be for pricing next year in Composites.
Yes.
I think it's a very good question and that's a real-time question.
So that's obviously something we're working right now because that is in a very important fourth quarter negotiation for us.
I've talked in the past that one of the key considerations that impacts Composites pricing is kind of rate of change of the market.
When we see markets that are growing turn negative when we see markets that are growing quickly suddenly go to a no-growth state because of the fixed cost nature of Composites manufacturing and because of the way melters operate typically the manufacturers would overrun the market create inventories and that tends to cause a downward pricing cycle.
I think we saw that last year.
This is about the time where Europe began to slow pretty dramatically kind of mid-third quarter.
I think the Chinese exporters to Europe European manufacturers everyone was running at a run rate for Europe that was well above what we saw kind of in the last 5 or 6 months.
Inventories were created and we got into a more aggressive pricing environment at the end of last year because of the rate of change of demand in the composites market.
Today demand is fairly weak but the rate of change is fairly stable.
So while we're seeing weak demand we don't think it's unexpectedly weak demand or anything that's particularly surprising.
And as a result we would believe we're in a more stable price environment today than we are -- than we were last year.
I think our hope going into next year is we would see some places maybe where we had a little bit of pricing opportunity.
We've had some nice new product launches which could give us an opportunity to get some additional margin by creating value for our customers with some new products.
I think the places to watch would be the roofing market in the U.S.
That's seen a big rate of change but on an annual basis it's relatively stable.
So I think most of our competitors and ourselves facing that market look at roofing demand as an annual issue and while we're seeing a weak second half I don't think the fundamental dynamics of roofing have changed.
We have seen a little bit of change obviously in the U.S.
wind market with the anticipated expiration of the production tax credits at year-end.
Again for us that was an anticipated issue.
So we don't see that as a rate of change issue.
So kind of a long answer but our sense is that most of the movement in the composites market globally is consistent with evolving expectations through the year and that is a result that shouldn't create a big downdraft or pressure on pricing the way it did last year.
I think that's a little different from saying we think we're in a real positive price environment.
I think the positive price side is going to be a little bit more opportunistic until we get to a little bit more robust growth.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on Composites I think in your opening remarks or I believe it was yours as opposed to Mike's but talking about longer-term margins maybe not getting to that double-digit rate and I believe you used the term 2013 and beyond.
Going back to the Investor Day and I think earlier this year with the turnover of the asset network certainly that there was a goal of 13% to even 15% I believe.
Once you reach that 75% of the network low cost.
So has there been any change in the thinking there? Or is this more of just the double digits really won't be achieved due to the lower demand which would negatively impact utilization and pricing in perhaps the near to medium term? Thanks Michael.
And I looked back at my script and I think I read it correctly.
But if not I do want to make sure that I clarify it if I put any confusion.
Your comment was that I had said that it put double-digit margins at risk in 2013 and beyond.
What I actually said is the way to the attainment of our double-digit margins beyond 2013.
So obviously that statement leaves open the possibility we could certainly attain them in 2014.
We haven't given that guidance yet but we tried to write the language in such a way that it was clear.
We certainly think the attainment of double-digit margins is something we can see in our crystal ball.
We don't think we have enough volume as we go into next year.
We can put a stake in the ground and reconfirm previous guidance we had given which said that we would get it next year.
Now I haven't gone back and run these numbers but I would tell you if this year had been 5% growth in demand and we were anticipating 5% growth in demand next year I'd be pretty confident telling you that we would still expect double-digit margins next year.
So by and large the change in outlook is just the difference in demand outlook.
And if you compound those numbers in effect 3% this year and 3% next year makes next year's market about the same size as we anticipated this year's market to be at 5% growth and the next 5% growth is going to be a market that might not appear until 2014 if we stay at kind of at 3% growth rate.
So I think it's really a volume story.
The cost side the asset side actually the reduction in value of the euro which makes exporting from China into Europe less competitive we think is probably something that helps revalue the remaining assets that we do have in Europe so that's a net positive.
The U.S.
dollar versus the Chinese currency has remained stable and actually begun to see the Chinese currency strengthen just a tad again which is one of our long-term trends that caused us to believe our U.S.
assets which are very low cost we'll continue to revalue.
So it's really the compounding effect of a couple of years at 3% instead of a couple of years at 5% causing the 2013 market to look more like the market we maybe expected this year and may be causing us to not see the 2013 demand levels until 2014 that caused us to say that we believe that the attainment of double-digit margins in 2013 is at risk and that that attainment will likely happen beyond 2013.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that.
Also just on the corporate expense I think you slightly lowered guidance there for the full year Mike.
Any thoughts on 2013? Because that's certainly been kind of a rising trend over the last few years and the profit picture has been less -- a little bit choppy.
So I mean we actually -- we're modeling continued growth but is there a chance that '13 could be similar to '12? Yes.
Mike thanks.
I mean I think the first thing that I'd point out that really since 2009 and since things had begun to recover we've been pretty disciplined from a cost perspective and from a headcount perspective.
We've actually been keeping headcount flat year-on-year.
The big thing that's impacted this year is the variability as we've gone through the year is largely incentive compensation and so -- and pension.
And as we look at this year versus next year from an overall run rate perspective I would expect corporate expense to be largely consistent and where we hopefully might see a little bit of variability is in incentive compensation.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You've already talked a bit about Roofing so I don't want to try to rehash it all.
But I was just curious about what happened at the beginning of the year that was so different than other years and really why the visibility this year was less than in prior years.
Yes.
I think it's a fairly simple story and we've talked about it but let me reiterate it which is we just saw discounting levels coming out of the fourth quarter last year in terms of these winter buy incentives that are offered by manufacturers to distributors to encourage distributors to stock up inventories in the first quarter.
The level of the incentives became so large offered by Owens Corning and offered by our competition that our distributors really had an incentive to not just buy in a bit more inventory but they actually kind of trade in shingles and to try to take a very long position in shingles early in the year and then carry that position through the second and third quarter and try to get as deep into the year as possible with a big inventory of low-cost shingles.
It created a lot of distortions in the market from our estimation none of which were particularly good.
So the discipline issue will be in fact that the new normal or in fact our position which is we think winter buys are a nice incentive for our distributors destocking some inventories where we can pass on some reduced asphalt costs through and give our distributors some incentives to help us keep our plants running and be ready for the spring selling season.
That certainly is a sensible position we believe for us to take with our customers.
And if that we can sustain that position competitively we think that's going to be the best position for our business and for our customers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back to Composites for a second in the 10-Q I think you actually mentioned there was a favorable mix of Composites demand this quarter and then there were obviously some negative offsets.
But what was the favorable mix that you cited? One of the things -- and I mean this at a very detailed level within our product line but the Roofing product line that we manufacture in Composites is a product called wet chop which is a short fiber that goes into something that almost resembles a papermaking process to make fiberglass paper or fiberglass mat which becomes the guts of a shingle.
So almost think of it as we manufacture fiberglass pulp to continue the paper analogy.
Now we have very very low-cost focused assets that are very efficient at making this product.
As a result we sell that product at an average price that's well below the price of a number of our other glass reinforcement products which you'd be more familiar with than some of the products that we feature kind of on our investor website like rovings like Type 30 like dry-used chop but we make very nice margins on them.
When we're reconciling top line and reconciling revenue if we lose a lot of tons of wet chop and mat which we did in the quarter you're actually going to see that your average selling price improves a bit because that would be negative to the mix because it's a low-selling-price product.
It's not a low-margin product though.
So you get a little different answer if you reconcile earnings versus reconciling revenue and that's the mix issue that we've put into the 10-Q.
Our next question comes from the line of John Kasprzak BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> How much of your Composite business is now tied to just the roofing market in total in North America? Well if you look at the pie chart that we put out in our investor deck which is Slide 10 you can see that we detail about 11% of the market is either U.S.
and Canadian new residential construction or U.S.
and Canadian residential repair and remodeling.
Those numbers track pretty well with the mix of what roofing would see in terms of what's repair and remodel what's new construction.
So that would be sales by Composites to our Roofing business sales by Composite on a merchant base into other roofing manufacturers.
But it would also -- could include sales by Composites to other building materials manufacturers.
So for instance we sell glass into the toilets and bath and shower market so a lot of fiberglass goes into the manufacturing of bathroom fixtures.
We would put that glass into that segment where we show that 11%.
We sell some glass into ceiling tiles in the facings of ceiling tiles which goes into the construction market.
We would also allocate some portion of those sales into that market.
So that's a little bit broader market driver than just roofing.
So in this disclosure we're saying in total with 11% of Composites revenue in the end market I think you should assume that materially that's being driven by Roofing but Roofing is not 100% of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
The second question is do you think the fact that repair and remodel spending in general has been sort of soft again this year and we're -- but we're seeing new residential construction improve is that having an effect on your product mix at all? Well I mean for sure if I take that directly to the Roofing question I'm not sure whether you're asking that as it relates to product mix in Composites or whether you....
Research Division</strong> Well Roofing and Insulation I guess specifically yes.
I think specifically to Roofing where obviously we think 75% of that business is repair and remodel and in fact 15% of that overall end use market is sales of commercial and industrial products which are primarily asphalt and other products.
So what you would tend to think of as our Roofing business which is shingles 75% out of 85% of our shingle sales are really to repair and remodel.
We certainly believe that the repair and remodel dynamic today is being affected by the tension and the challenges that we see in housing in the U.S.
probably more impacted by home prices level of equity in homes people's feeling about their house as a decent place to invest whether they're underwater on their mortgage whether they actually have equity in their home which would qualify them for a home equity loan which might allow them to pay for a reroof job.
If all those -- if the answer to all those questions are no no I'm not confident on my house; no I don't think prices are going up; no I don't have equity in my home I'm going to try to find a way to patch my roof or do something that causes me to not put more capital into my home.
When you get into an environment where people are feeling better about increasing home values better about the stability of the equity in their home you see a mortgage market begin to improve as appraisals begin to improve which might underpin or support refinancings or home equity loans those are the things that we would say are critical precursors towards seeing an improvement in the reroof market.
We've shown -- at our Investor Day we've put out a slide where we break the shingle market into segments and over a 15-year period of time the reroof market's averaged 104 million squares.
Last year we estimated the market at about 92 million squares.
So that market is 15% below what we would consider to be normal.
We would probably ascribe the bulk of that headwind to declining home prices declining home equity and the lack of availability of a decent financing market for homes in terms of mortgages or home equity.
We're very heartened to see that depending which home price index you look at Case-Shiller or others there was a month -- I think it was 2 months ago where Case-Shiller was up in all 20 markets.
I think if Case-Shiller is flat between now and year-end you'd still see a 5% year-end-to-year-end growth in home prices.
All of this is now starting to repair the homeowners' balance sheet starting to repair their ledger on what the value of their home is maybe take some of the houses that were underwater at 105% loan-to-value and get them back to having a loan-to-value ratio of less than 100% getting other homeowners who had some equity in their houses to feel confident that putting money into their house is not a bad idea.
There's very cheap money out there for people who qualify.
We think those are likely to be the things that will help us get a more sustained recovery in that repair and remodel segment of our Roofing business.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> From Slide 13 you're talking about EBIT margins of 15% at 1.5 million starts.
I was curious would you guys be willing to say what EBIT margins would be at 1 million starts in this segment? And also what's going on with your market share position in Insulation? Okay.
I can get you close to what we would've said about EBIT margins and then we can follow up on this because I don't want to get too pinned on that number.
But we've been pretty comfortable saying we think the business would produce $100 million of EBIT on 1 million housing starts.
Whereas the last time through at a 1 million housing starts the business was about breakeven.
So that's -- in terms of mix of business improvement of the other businesses inside our Insulation segment as well as cost reductions and operating leverage in our residential business we think we've moved that kind of break-even point by about $100 million.
Today the Insulation business is doing about $350 million or $400 million a quarter as you see from the third quarter.
So we would see some top line growth as we move from 750 000 starts or where we're in this year to 1 million.
But if you say it's on relatively flat revenue just because I don't want to give kind of a revenue estimate.
We were on 1.6 billion.
$100 million on 1.6 billion would be about 6% margin.
So we're -- we would say that that guidance is short of double digits at 1 million starts.
And then our guidance which is we should be back to historical norms of 15% at 1.5 million that would suggest that we do have pretty good operating leverage as we go from kind of mid- to maybe a little bit better than mid-single digits margins at 1 million.
And the next 500 000 starts should be pretty high calorie and that would be because we'd start to see capacity utilization in the insulation market get tighter scarcity of insulation become a theme in the market and we'd expect to see that the pricing curve would start to bend a little bit more in our favor than what we would expect in the early part of this curve.
So we're seeing positive price now.
But we're multiple price increases away from even getting back to historical averages and we're going to continue to move pricing as quickly as we can consistent with the growing market.
LLC Research Division</strong> And market share trends right now in Insulation? Market share is pretty stable.
There is obviously -- that is also a competitive market and there is competitive intensity as people try to position themselves for the recovery and make sure that they're aligned with the right kinds of customers and with the right partners.
We feel very good about our mix of customers.
We feel very good about our relationships and I would say our primary goal as it relates to market share would be to try to find ways to help our customers grow faster as opposed to trying to figure out how we move a lot of market share around in the market we like.
We like the relationships we have.
We like the mix of customers and our goal with the EcoTouch launch our goal with what we're doing on EnergyComplete our goal with specification selling and other things is to try to create business opportunities for our customers so that they potentially grow faster than the market.
But we're satisfied with the customer mix we have.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you're not really seeing any movement there is what you're saying? No I mean we obviously see competitive bidding where there is efforts to move share.
But for the most part I would say share positions in that business actually have probably been stable over the last decade.
There's been 4 of us that have been really 90% of that market now going back a full decade and while you could see some movements in share over that period of time it's generally been a market structure that's pretty similar to what we see today.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
One final question in Composites.
What percentage of your revenues are based on spot markets sales for delivery within the next 3 months versus longer-term contracts? Yes I would characterize it a little differently than the way you characterize it.
But let me try to give you some thought on that.
We have some customers I would characterize them as distribution customers and also some customers who have applications that are not quite as sensitive to input glass in terms of how that impacts their yields and the economics of the composites that they manufacture.
And I would say those customers tend to buy at prevailing market prices maybe different than spot prices.
So it's not bid necessarily the way you would think of a spot price in a classic financial market.
There are some switching costs.
There are some marketing costs and other costs associated with switching to a new glass supplier.
But if you can't sell them at a competitive prevailing market price they have liberty through the year to be able to move share position.
I'd say in broad terms that's probably less than 1/2 of our overall business mix and probably customers who really rely on us to give them some stable pricing so that they can price their end-use composite applications to their customer at stable pricing where our product is integral to their design it's integral to their yield it's integral to their manufacturing process and it's very important that we take a long-term view together with them to make sure that we keep them competitive and that we're working on technology developments and process development to keep them competitive.
That's probably a bit more than 1/2 the business.
I think that's a very broad generalization and have we been when -- geography by geography market by market you'd find pretty wide variations different from that broad characterization.
But I think for the overall market -- the overall business kind of a $1.8 billion to $2 billion that's probably a pretty good characterization.
That concludes the Q&amp;A session.
Now I'd now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Well thank you Chanel and thank you everyone for your ongoing interest in our company.
Obviously I think you've heard from the tone of my comments and also Michael's comments that it's been a challenging year for us.
We're not terribly happy with our financial results.
But I think more broadly than that we're not terribly happy with our dilutive forecast and guide expectations around financial results.
As we look at actual management actions and strategy we feel like we're still getting the right thing done this year.
We feel we have the right strategies in our businesses.
We're focused on getting operating leverage in our Insulation business and being a constructive part of the recovery in housing as an industry leader.
We're focused on managing margins and volumes in our Roofing business in a way that we continue to sustain the kinds of margin performance that we saw in 2010 and 2011 and maybe reverse this near-term trend we're seeing in 2012 related to some margin compression that we think started earlier in the year.
We're very focused on getting the right asset base in composites.
I think we've been talking about that now for 2 years.
Two years ago we talked about it in the future tense.
3 or 4 quarters ago we were talking about in the present tense and it's my fond hope that by the end of this year we'll be talking about that in the past tense and that as we look ahead to 2013 what we're talking about is having the right inventory levels with the right asset base and the right customers around the world and that we start to get nice positive operating leverage in Composites.
We're heading into next year certainly thinking that there's no reason why we shouldn't see improvement in all of our businesses and that's certainly the challenge that we've given our leadership team.
It's certainly the challenge we've given people of Owens Corning.
We're very proud of the people of Owens Corning's hard work this year.
People are working very very hard to try to get the right things done in the business and to make sure that we are focused on doing the right things for our shareholders in the near term and the long term.
We'll get over this little speed bump in terms of getting through 2012 and making sure that we can deliver on those promises in 2013 and beyond.
Thank you very much for your time.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Larissa and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded and I'll turn the call over to Thierry Denis please go ahead.
Thank you Larissa and good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us today for the conference call in review of our business results for the fourth quarter and full year 2012.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and CEO and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this 1 hour call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-K that detailed our results for the quarter and full year.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the fourth quarter and full year 2012.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the slides at our website owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investors section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
Second these statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.
This presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP are found within the financial tables of our earnings release.
Consistent with our historical practice we've excluded items that we believe are unrepresentative of our ongoing operations to arrive at adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparisons.
We believe that adjusted EBIT is helpful to investors for comparing our results from period to period.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
The company's full year effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2012 was 23%.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by CFO Michael McMurray.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
Owens Corning consolidated revenue for 2012 was $5.2 billion compared to $5.3 billion 1 year ago.
Full year adjusted EBIT was $293 million down from $461 million in 2011 and adjusted earnings for the year were $131 million compared to $276 million.
Fourth quarter revenue of $1.2 billion was essentially even with that in the same period 1 year ago.
Adjusted EBIT for the quarter was $52 million down from $88 million [indiscernible] down from $48 million from the fourth quarter 2011.
2011 presented a number of financial challenges for us.
I'm encouraged with the way that we finished the year and believe that we've positioned the company well heading into 2013.
Let me now review a few of the key highlights.
We continue to make progress towards our goal of creating an injury-free workplace.
We reduced our rate of injuries by 10% compared with our full-year 2011 performance.
This marks our 11th consecutive year of safety improvement a proud achievement for our entire team.
Our Roofing business had good margin management in the fourth quarter despite weak year-end volumes.
We came into 2013 with stronger margins and a more disciplined winter buy program than our experience in 2012.
We know that a strong start is critical to improved full year performance in Roofing.
Our Insulation business completed its second consecutive quarter of profitability and significantly narrowed losses for the year.
An improving housing market and a strong outlook underpins our belief that we will be able to sustain our performance into 2013.
We continue to focus on improving our financial performance through better pricing volume growth and increased capacity utilization.
Our Composites business had a difficult second half due to heavy production curtailments associated with our previously announced inventory reduction plan.
We are largely complete with our asset and cost actions and expect that demand growth in 2013 will allow us to ramp up our production and return to positive operating leverage.
As we look ahead to 2013 we're expecting an environment of continued strong improvement in the U.S.
housing market and continued modest growth in the global economy and industrial production.
We believe that this macro environment will support improvement of EBIT in each of our 3 businesses.
We would expect over all corporate improvement of at least $100 million in EBIT and we would anticipate that the rate of the U.S.
housing recovery and our ability to improve margins in our Roofing and Insulation businesses will largely determine the upside to our guidance.
Before I turn it over to Michael for more financial details on the quarter and the year I'd like to take a moment to discuss the current position and outlook in each of our businesses.
Let me start with Roofing.
We expect overall market conditions in Roofing to continue to improve.
New construction and reroof volumes should trend higher tracking housing starts and increased home sale activities.
Storm volumes are always difficult to forecast but at average levels would fall below 2012 demand.
Given these assumptions we'd expect the overall roofing market opportunity in 2013 to be at or above 2012 levels.
Our main near-term focus has been to start the year with better margins and more discipline in our winter buy programs.
Our early indications are that we are off to a better start than last year which is very good news.
In Insulation we showed good improvement and nice operating leverage in 2012.
We believe that the outlook for continued improvement in U.S.
housing starts would translate into another year of improved asset utilization and better pricing levels continuing our financial recovery marked by a return to profitability this year.
We still have a long way to go to return this business to our historical volumes price levels and returns.
We're heartened by our recent progress and are optimistic that a sustained housing recovery will provide us with the market conditions to achieve those goals.
Our Composites business is also expected to improve in 2013.
The global composites market will not enjoy nearly as favorable market conditions as we expect in the U.S.
construction markets.
That said we are seeing definite signs of improvement in the 2 largest geographic markets: China and the United States.
The pace of recovery in India and Brazil is a bit more uncertain but it is expected to strengthen through the year.
We're planning Europe industrial production as basically flat with continued small declines in the first half and modest growth in the second.
However European recovery remains quite uncertain.
Improvements in financial performance in Composites will come from capitalizing on the good work done by our team in 2012 to right-size inventories rationalize high-cost European assets commission low-cost melters in Mexico and Russia and launch new products in multiple market segments.
Our performance will improve as the year progresses as we restore production matching it to demand.
Some of our cost leverage will be offset by continued input cost inflation which we were not able to fully offset with price increases as we entered 2013.
As we move through the year one of our key objectives will be to continue to look for opportunities to support our margins in this business with improved pricing.
First to cover our input cost inflation and ultimately to restore margins and returns to attractive levels.
Now let me turn it over to Michael who will review our business and corporate performance.
I'll then return to recap our 2013 outlook and open it up for questions.
Michael? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As we acknowledged on our third quarter call 2012 was a challenging year.
I'm pleased to report that we finished the year at the midpoint of our revised guidance that we shared on the third quarter call and with positive momentum in each of our businesses.
We believe these actions we've taken in 2012 combined with recovering markets will drive improved performance in all 3 of our businesses in 2013.
Now let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the year and for the fourth quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's news release and the Form 10-K.
Today we reported 2012 consolidated net sales of $5.2 billion compared with $5.3 billion in 2011.
Net sales in our Insulation business grew by 7% on improved demand.
In our Roofing business net sales were down 7% on lower sales volumes as we had a difficult comparison with very strong 2011 storm volumes.
Lastly net sales in our Composites business were down 6% primarily due to foreign currency translation.
In a moment I'll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-to-period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for 2012 was $293 million compared with $461 million in 2011.
Adjusted earnings for 2012 were $131 million or $1.10 per diluted share compared to $276 million or $2.23 per diluted share in 2011.
In addition to the items excluded from adjusted EBIT we have excluded from our adjusted earnings the $74 million loss that we incurred in conjunction with our debt tender offer.
Fourth quarter 2012 adjusted EBIT was $52 million compared to $88 million in the fourth quarter 2011.
Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter were $13 million or $0.11 per diluted share compared to adjusted earnings of $48 million or $0.40 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Fourth quarter 2012 adjusted earnings per share were impacted by $4 million impairment of an investment in a small affiliate.
Our 2012 effective tax rate on adjusted earnings was 23% better than our previous guidance of 25%.
Our mix of income ongoing tax planning and sustainable tax strategies drove the improvement in our rate versus our previous guidance.
Depreciation and amortization.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $349 million for 2012 including $55 million of accelerated depreciation related to the asset repositioning in Europe.
Capital expenditures for 2012 were $332 million compared with $442 million in 2011.
We completed our Composites melter investment program in the first half of 2012 with our new low-cost capacity in Mexico and Russia.
As a result we are not anticipating adding any new melter  capacity for at least 2 years.
Capital expenditures in 2012 were approximately 10% higher than our depreciation and amortization for the year excluding the impact of our asset restructuring in Europe.
Our net debt increased by approximately $130 million in 2012.
This was primarily the result of ongoing investments in our core businesses continued share repurchase and costs associated with the successful repurchase of $350 million of outstanding senior notes which improved our liquidity and maturity profile.
Next let me reconcile 2012 adjusted EBIT of $293 million to our reported EBIT of $148 million as detailed in Table 2 of today's news release.
Restructuring actions initiated in 2012 represented $136 million of the amount adjusted out of reported EBIT with the majority of the restructuring charges related to the repositioning of our European assets in our Composites business.
We have also adjusted out $9 million of losses related to a flood that occurred at our Kearny New Jersey Roofing facility as a result of storm surge associated with Hurricane Sandy.
We believe that the overall financial impact will be minimal as substantially all costs including business interruption will be covered by our insurance policies.
However it is important to note that the timing of any recoveries will result in expenses being taken in periods before the insurance receipts are recorded or received.
We will continue to adjust out the impact of gains and losses throughout the year.
Also we have taken action to ensure that there will be little impact to our customers and we continue to service all customers to our regional manufacturing network.
Final assessments of damages are nearing completion and we expect the rebuilding of our facility to be complete later this year.
Now please turn to Slide 6 and I'll provide a high-level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing full-year 2012 with 2011.
As I previously mentioned adjusted EBIT for 2012 was $293 million compared to $461 million in 2011.
The $59 million improvement in our Insulation business was more than offset by a decline in Roofing EBIT of $98 million and a decline in Composites EBIT of $110 million.
General corporate expenses were $91 million in 2012 compared to $71 million in 2011 due primarily to higher pension cost and reduced foreign currency gains.
General corporate expenses were less than our original 2012 guidance of $110 million to $120 million due primarily to lower incentive compensation expenses as our financial performance for the year was below the targets we had established going into the year.
With that review of key financial highlights I'll ask you to turn to Slide 7 where we provide a more detailed review of our businesses starting with Building Materials.
For the fourth quarter Building Materials net sales were $763 million a 1% decline compared to the prior year with higher sales in Insulation being more than offset by a decline in Roofing sales.
Building Materials delivered $51 million in EBIT in the fourth quarter of 2012 down from $55 million of EBIT for the same period in 2011.
For the full-year 2012 Building Materials net sales were $3.5 billion down 2% compared to 2011.
Building Materials delivered $293 million in EBIT in 2012 compared with $332 million of EBIT in 2011.
Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were $350 million a 9% decline compared with the same period a year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was $42 million down $13 million compared to the same period in 2011.
Roofing net sales for the year were $2 billion a 7% decline compared with 2011 driven largely by lower sales volumes.
Market volumes for 2012 were down in the low single digits compared to last year primarily to the challenging comparison we have with very strong 2011 storm volumes.
EBIT margins were 16% for the year down from 20% in 2011 driven in large part by the aggressive discounting we experienced in the first quarter of 2012.
The business benefited from strong price execution in the balance of the year and we experienced a stable pricing environment with healthy contribution margins in the fourth quarter.
As we look forward to 2013 the outlook for U.S.
housing supports improvement in new residential construction modest growth in reroof and the potential for negative storm demand comparison as 2012 storm volumes were above the historical average.
We are also confident that we'll reduce first quarter winter discounting levels compared to 2012 and we expect to benefit from announced first quarter pricing actions.
We also expect to sustain our market position and therefore would expect improved performance in our Roofing business for 2013.
Now Slide 9 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
Net sales for the quarter in Insulation were $413 million or up 7% from the same period a year ago reflecting higher sales volumes and strong commercial execution across the business.
The business delivered EBIT of $9 million in the fourth quarter compared to a breakeven result in the same period 1 year ago.
This was the second consecutive profitable quarter in our Insulation business and we significantly narrowed full-year losses by almost $60 million.
Approximately $50 million of the performance improvement was the result of manufacturing productivity and improved capacity utilization.
The remaining improvement was largely a result of higher sales volumes and slightly higher selling prices.
For the full year net sales in Insulation of $1.5 billion were up 7% compared to 2011.
The business reported strong operating leverage measured as the ratio of incremental EBIT to incremental sales year-over-year of nearly 60%.
We have seen sequential improvement throughout the quarters in 2012 in both revenue and EBIT driven by cost reductions strong commercial execution and overall housing market improvements during the year.
As the U.S.
housing market continues to recover we expect to see further sales growth.
The blue-chip consensus forecast for 2013 U.S.
housing starts recently rose to 990 000 starts which was supported by the run rate in the fourth quarter of 2012.
With continued U.S.
housing momentum we expect to see an improved pricing environment in 2013 as the industry's capacity utilization continues to tighten.
With a seasonally slower start to the year we would expect to lose money in the first quarter but return to profitability in our Insulation business for the full year in 2013.
Now I'll ask you to turn your attention to Slide 10 for a review of our Composites business.
Net sales in our Composites business for the quarter were $426 million a 7% decrease compared to the same period in 2011.
Fourth quarter sales were negatively impacted by approximately $15 million in foreign currency translation.
Full year net sales were $1.9 billion a 6% decrease compared to the same period in 2011.
Full year sales were unfavorably impacted by approximately $85 million in foreign currency translation and approximately $20 million related to the divestiture of our facility in Capivari Brazil last year.
Excluding the impact of these items sales were relatively flat for the year as slightly higher sales volumes were offset by the impact of a low-single-digit decline in selling prices.
While prices are slightly down compared to the prior year prices stabilized during the second quarter and have remained so through the balance of the year.
EBIT for the quarter was $23 million compared to $49 million in the same period last year due primarily to year-over-year inflation and the impact of plant curtailments during the fourth quarter.
EBIT for the full year was $91 million compared to $201 million in 2011.
The year was negatively impacted by plant start-up and rebuild cost curtailments inflation and slightly lower selling prices.
We were committed to reducing inventory levels in 2012 and operated at lower production levels in the second half of the year in order to reduce our finished goods inventory by about $50 million.
This inventory reduction was below our target of $70 million due primarily to lower-than-anticipated sales volumes in the fourth quarter.
The repositioning of our European manufacturing network to a low-delivered-cost asset base is substantially complete and our Mexico and Russia startups met fourth quarter performance expectations.
With these efforts now behind us we are increasing production levels during the first quarter of 2013 to meet expected demand levels for the balance of the year.
In 2012 global reinforcements demand grew less than the historical average trend rate of 5%.
In 2013 we expect global reinforcements demand to grow but again at a pace below the long-term historical trend.
We expect the benefits of our asset transformation increased utilization of our lower cost asset base and modest growth in global reinforcements demand will result in improved margins in 2013 compared to 2012.
The first quarter of 2013 will compare negatively to 2012 as we have lower production levels and some year-on-year inflation.
As we ramp capacity utilization through the first quarter we expect full year 2013 to compare positively to full year 2012.
Now let me turn your attention to Slide 11.
In 2012 the company continued its disciplined approach to balance sheet and capital management for the long-term benefit of investors and we strengthened our portfolio through the execution of several key transactions.
During 2012 we repurchased 3.7 million shares of the company's stock for $107 million under a previously announced share repurchase program.
Since 2008 we have repurchased 16.6 million shares for approximately $450 million at an average price of $27.35.
As of year end 10 million shares remained available for repurchase under the company's current authorization.
These share buybacks represent a return of capital to our shareholders and reflect our strong outlook for growth in earnings and free cash flow generation.
Our $2.3 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
In 2012 our tax position delivered a third straight year of significant cash tax savings and our cash taxes paid in 2012 were $30 million.
As we discussed in our third quarter call we were pleased with the $600 million bond offering that funded early in the fourth quarter.
This transaction extends our maturities adds to liquidity and strengthens our investment-grade balance sheet.
We used a portion of the proceeds to purchase $350 million of our outstanding senior notes through a tender offer.
As a result of this tender offer we incurred a fourth quarter charge of $74 million associated with the extinguishment of this debt which is consistent with what we had told you on our third quarter call.
With that review of 2012 performance I now ask that you turn to Slide 12 where I will touch on some additional corporate guidance for 2013 before I hand it back to Mike for final comments.
We anticipate that corporate expense in 2013 will grow to about $110 million to $120 million.
Expenses will be higher in anticipation of incentive compensation levels consistent with improved performance.
We have continued to focus on spending discipline and this will continue into 2013.
For 2013 we expect capital spending to be about $380 million.
Reported capital spending will include approximately $50 million of spending to rebuild our Kearny New Jersey Roofing facility which was damaged during Hurricane Sandy and is covered by insurance.
As a result net capital spending will be roughly in line with depreciation and amortization of about $350 million.
As a result of our tax NOL and successful tax planning we expect our cash tax rate in 2013 to be approximately 10% to 12% on adjusted earnings.
Our effective tax rate on adjusted earnings in 2013 will be 25% to 28%.
Thank you and now I'll hand the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I said earlier our focus in 2013 is to deliver improved financial performance in all 3 of our businesses.
On the strength of an improving housing market in the U.S.
and modest global growth we anticipate overall improvement of at least $100 million in EBIT and we anticipate that the rate of the U.S.
recovery and margin performance in Building Materials businesses will largely determine the upside to our guidance.
We believe that we're off to a good start through the first month and a half and are looking forward to delivering improved financial performance this year.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Thierry who will lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Larissa we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Stephen Kim from Barclays is on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> A lot of questions but let me just limit it to 2.
If you could elaborate a little bit more on the Roofing outlook.
Obviously we've been hearing good things about pricing and you've indicated as much.
But I was curious if you could give us an idea of what we should anticipate here in terms of the first quarter or second quarter benefit from any of the price activities that you've mentioned and if you could incorporate in your answer a discussion of maybe any pull forward of volume and how that may affect the numbers we might see in 1Q or 2Q.
Sure Stephen thanks and thanks for joining the call.
Let me talk a little bit about kind of the shape of the year and the difference we see in how we finished out 2011 versus 2012.
Through the course of the fourth quarter of 2011 we did see roofing prices falling a bit and then we saw pretty aggressive winter discounting into the first quarter of 2012.
So we were coming off of a quarter where prices had weakened and then we had aggressive discounting in addition and sold a lot of volume in the first quarter at those depressed margins and that really cast a shadow over all of 2012 performance in Roofing.
This year we saw stable pricing through the fourth quarter so we didn't see that decline into the year end and then we saw a bit more discipline in the winter buy program that we were able to put into the marketplace with our customers.
Our expectation would be that volumes may be a bit weaker in the first quarter this year than they were last year.
We would say that's a good thing.
We would expect that volumes in the second quarter would probably track replenishment rates for our customers and that's very hard for us to forecast because that's going to be weather-dependent.
That's going to be storm-dependent and that's going to be dependent on the rate of overall recovery of the reroof market.
But we would expect that once we get out of the first quarter our distribution customers in particular will broaden some inventories -- probably not as pronounced a position as they were in last year.
They would have done that at a little bit better margins for us based on the shape of how prices have played out through the first quarter.
And then on a full year basis given that we feel comfortable with our share position and we feel comfortable with the overall market outlook that it should be stable to up we'd expect that through the year we would see full year volumes that are probably comparable to what we saw last year.
Research Division</strong> I guess within that I'm just trying to zero-in a little bit more on understanding the roofing margins that we could expect in 1Q.
Oftentimes there's -- those are the first Q in -- fourth Q and 1Q are typically the weakest but curious as to whether or not we're going to in 1Q see any benefit from the price increases that you -- that I think the industry put through in February or if it's likely that that won't be seen in 1Q.
Right now when you talk about the announced price increase we announced a price increase here in the first quarter that's effective really at the end of the first quarter early second quarter.
I think we will primarily see that price increase impacting our performance in the second quarter.
We'll need that pricing though in that we do expect that we will see cost inflation.
I think those of us who are following gasoline prices and refinery economics know that you are seeing quite a bottleneck today in refineries and that refined products are getting more expensive.
We expect that will have an impact on asphalt.
So we will expect to see inflation through the year.
We feel like we're in a good position though from a pricing point of view that we should be able to recover the inflation we see.
But for the first quarter I don't think the impact on margins will be so much related to the price increases we've announced this year.
It will be much more related to finishing last year with a little bit better pricing and margins than we saw at the end of '11 and then a more disciplined approach to the winter buys in the first quarter 2013 than what we saw in '12.
I think those would be the 2 benefits that you'll potentially pick up in first quarter margin this year.
George Staphos from Bank of America is on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> First question on Composites.
At one point in time you had talked about a $60 million improvement in total EBIT for the segment as I recall based on your action based on what you're expecting from the market.
I was wondering whether that still held in your mind or whether what appears to be a little bit weaker fourth quarter than you were expecting moderated your view there.
And a related point as I look at the international component within Composite revenues it dropped at a quicker rate in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
I'm assuming that's related to the market weakness but did you think that you lost any market share there? Okay let me take this George.
This is Mike.
Let me take the second half of your question first and then I'll come back to the first half.
I think primarily the reduction in revenue in the international segments was exchange-rate driven.
So we saw that obviously the euro was weaker versus the dollar last year than it had been in the prior years and I think that's primarily exchange rate.
We saw some inventory adjustments I think particularly in Europe in the fourth quarter.
I wouldn't think that we lost share.
So from a share point of view we think our share position is stable and that primarily that would be year-end inventory reductions by our customers that would have driven weaker demand for us as well as exchange rate.
I think most of us who -- most of our investors who follow the Composites business carefully do know that our market share in China is a bit weaker than our market share in Europe and the U.S.
So any year where China grows faster than the U.S.
or Europe on a mix basis we do lose some market share but we tend to measure our market share by geography and we're pretty comfortable that our market share by geography is stable.
To your first question our prior guidance when we talked about the asset rationalization in Europe the commissioning of the 2 low-cost melters some of the other headcounts and other cost reductions that we had executed in our Composites business we said it would lead to $60 million of operating leverage in 2013.
I think maybe I could have been clearer when I gave that guidance that that was the operating leverage piece of the P&amp;L.
And then obviously the 2 other factors that would have a big impact on the P&amp;L would also be what happens to price year-over-year and then what happens to inflation year-over-year.
If you look at our K where we detailed 2012 we had about $100 million decline in performance in Composites and we broke that out in the K as being about $60 million which was pricing inflation and we said that was about half-half.
We said it was equal parts pricing inflation.
The remainder was kind of negative operating leverage.
So last year we declined by about $100 million and we did that with negative price negative inflation and negative operating leverage.
I think what we're saying this year is we still feel comfortable that we should see about $60 million of positive operating leverage in the year.
We think nominal prices are about flat.
We've gotten price in some parts of the world.
We've gotten price in some product lines.
There's some other places where it's been a bit more competitive and we've lost a bit of price.
So on balance we didn't go backwards on price the way we did entering 2012.
We didn't make enough progress on price though to offset our inflation and we'd say probably our inflation outlook for 2013 is pretty comparable to what we had in 2012.
So whereas last year we were negative in all 3 variables negative price negative inflation negative operating leverage.
This year we still see the big positive operating leverage we advertised earlier probably neither impacted significantly positively or negatively by price based on where we sit today and probably some offset related to inflation.
Now as we get further into the year I did say in my prepared comments one of our focal points in that business is at some point we need to get back to the ability to price our products in a way to recover at a minimum inflation and then ultimately we'd like to get in a position where we can get some price authority that would allow us to start to expand margins and improve returns.
Next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on just going back to the Composites segment for a moment.
I was wondering if you could kind of review the pluses and minuses of 4Q margins versus 3Q margins.
The 4Q margins were certainly better than we were looking for and I know that you mentioned -- I believe you mentioned that you didn't fully hit your inventory reduction target for the quarter.
I don't know if I heard that correctly but I was wondering if you could kind of discuss that potential impact on 4Q results relative to 3Q and if there were any other kind of pluses or minuses and how that translates into your outlook for down year-over-year margins in 1Q.
Michael at a high-level let me hit a couple of the points that come to my mind on that question and then I'll look to Michael to see if he wants to add anything else.
I think one thing that would have impacted margins sequentially is if you remember when we talked in the third quarter we did have a little bit of challenge with the startup of our facility particularly in Mexico.
So that was a bit of a drag on margins in the third quarter.
We got that facility running pretty effectively by the end of the third quarter.
We did have some higher cost inventory from that facility carry over into the fourth but I would say that was a net adder from the third quarter to the fourth quarter the improved performance in Mexico.
We do have some year-end accruals in our Composites business that are -- tend to be volume related with us some of our customers.
And given that it was a little bit weaker volume year for us -- in weaker volume years that tends to support fourth quarter margins a little bit where we're accruing that stuff through the year and then we get a little bit of benefit in the fourth quarter.
I would say that probably helped the sequential third quarter to fourth quarter review.
I think if you look at fourth quarter of '12 versus fourth quarter of '11 that's probably a less prevalent impact because year end is year end.
In both of those years volumes were a little bit weaker than we expected.
And then I would say the third thing is we did ramp production a little bit earlier than we expected.
We looked at our ramp up plan and realized that we had maybe put some risk into 2013 by trying to turn on a lot of new production positions all at once.
Our technical teams had been really working very hard to commission new melters and do some of the asset rationalization.
We decided to stretch that ramp curve a bit and brought some of the ramp-up in the fourth quarter pushed the first quarter where we spread it a bit more through the first quarter.
So I think you hear in the nature of our remarks today that maybe helped our fourth quarter a little bit.
It will maybe drag a little bit more through the first quarter.
Michael said today that we do not expect to comp positively in the first quarter but by the end of the first quarter we'll have got that whole ramp done and then we feel pretty good about the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And it's a helpful walk through.
The second question on the Insulation margins continue to see positive results in 4Q but if you look at also 3Q you had a $15 million year-over-year profit improvement.
In 4Q you had a $9 million profit improvement.
I was just wondering if there was anything seasonally or sequentially that impacted 4Q that the year-over-year improvement dropped off just a little bit and how you're looking at pricing trends going into 2013.
Okay great.
We've been pretty much characterizing our view of what we're looking for from the Insulation business in operating leverage terms and have cautioned investors -- and I think we've been on the good side of this story and the challenging side of this story a couple of times in the quarter over the course of the last year -- that we think about 50% operating leverage over a 3-year period of time 2012 '13 '14 is what we're looking for from the business.
We're not going to see that every quarter.
We're going to have some quarters that are better some quarters that are worse.
Our operating leverage rev and EBIT change to revenue change wasn't quite as strong in the fourth quarter but we'd just come off 2 very strong quarters.
So in the second quarter it was over 100%.
In the third quarter it was about 80%.
I think the operating leverage you're referencing now on the fourth quarter will be closer to 39% or 40%.
For the full year we were at 59% which we felt pretty good about.
That's above the trend line of 50%.
So I wouldn't read anything specifically into the fourth quarter number besides the timing of pricing the timing of shipments the timing of production.
We're not always going to have exactly the same operating leverage in any given quarter.
Your follow-on question related to kind of what's the price outlook now.
We're very happy with the price execution we saw on the year-end price increase.
So we had a year-end price increase that was effective right around January 1.
That has gone into the industry in a way that our customers are buying at that price and we feel that that's a pretty stable price for us.
So we believe we've established a new price level with our customers which is very very important to us.
And obviously our uncertainty around the guidance relates to how far and how fast we can continue to make progress on pricing.
Research Division</strong> And just remind us that price increase? It was an 8% to 10% price increase.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie and Capital Partners (sic) [Macquarie Capital Partners].
On the Roofing side can you actually quantify what the drag will be in 2013 from the normalization of storm activity that you talked about? And just putting that together with -- I recall in 2012 it was a particularly hot summer and there were some destocking that occurred.
So just how that comes together to impact volumes.
Yes that's fine Mike.
Let me start from kind of a macro level and work my way down which is we put out a slide in our investor deck.
We don't put it out quarterly with our earnings but we tend to update it in our Investor deck which is we break the Roofing market into 3 parts of a bar chart.
There's the reroof piece there's the new construction piece and then there's the storm piece.
And when you go through that chart which is out on our website in our investor deck the new construction piece at these levels of new construction has been less than 20% of the overall market.
The reroof piece has continued to be kind of 75% of the overall market and average storm demand which has been kind of in the 8 million to 10 million squares range has been the more volatile portion of the market.
So coming into this year if we look at our estimates versus where we finished '12 we would expect new construction demand to be up.
So that's going to pretty much track housing starts we would expect.
So we'll get some growth there.
We think reroof demand has now been flat to growing the last couple of years and generally the most important macro for that has been existing home sales.
So as you see more house activity and you tend to see more reroof demand that's been a little bit muted in this recovery and we think largely that's driven by house prices and a lack of equity in homes.
So now that we're starting to see recovery in house prices and improvement in existing home sales we'd expect that within those transactions we're going to see more roofs get reroofs.
So we certainly wouldn't expect reroof in 2013 to be worse than 2012 and we would expect to start seeing a recovery back to historical levels.
Right now reroof demand is 10% to 15% below what we believe is a normal level.
So there's some good progress to be made in terms of growth with reroof recovering.
Now we put storm demand in 2012 as being maybe 20% above what would be a 15-year average but in that storm demand it's typically about 10% of the market.
That's a couple of points of overall market.
So if we were to see storms at average that's maybe a 2% or 3% headwind in terms of what we would see in terms of overall market growth.
We would expect new construction in reroof would offset that.
So probably at the low end of our estimate we think it's about a flat market.
And then if we were to see some pick up in reroof or maybe some upside performance in new construction maybe we'd see actual market growth in 2013 on average storms.
Now you can have below average storms so that could be even more of a challenge for us or obviously if we saw some storms earlier in the year or in the second half of the year that would be something that would drive more demand.
I hope that's a fuller explanation that helps you.
Okay.
And price not fully offsetting cost in the Composites segment is this something that is from your current viewpoint or are you going to try to anticipate additional price increases to recoup that cost inflation? Generally pricing in Composites the most active time of the year for price negotiation and price heading in the Composites industry tends to be around year end.
So we have reasonably good visibility as we enter the year on what we think happened at the year-end price negotiations which tend to be the most active.
We are expecting this year we've now seen about 4 straight years where the rate of capacity addition in the industry is well below the demand growth.
So even though demand has not been as vibrant as we would have hoped I think you've seen some of our investor presentations where we believe in China the rate of capacity addition has not kept up with the rate of capacity the rate of demand growth in China.
So China excess capacity has been net shrinking.
We've seen additional rationalization by us and other players in the industry.
So demand is slowly growing into capacity in the industry and we're seeing some product lines in some geographies where potentially we would have the opportunity to come back through the middle of the year and look for opportunities to take price because we think that the products may be in more demand.
So while we certainly don't give an outlook to that and it's very uncertain because we don't have a great and strong pricing track record on our Composites business.
We do feel pretty comfortable today saying that price deterioration for 2013 would be contained.
We think the year-end price negotiations have left us in a position where pricing is fairly neutral to maybe slightly positive coming into '13 in total and that potentially through this year we'd have an opportunity to improve upon that outlook.
Ken Zener from KeyBanc Capital Markets on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Mike you talked about upside to '13 guidance.
I think I'm a little confused I guess and if you could clarify because it seems to be one of the big questions I've had today.
How much price do you have in your at least $100 million EBIT growth? You talked about Insulation.
Price has gone in you said you're confident you don't know how much.
So how much of that 8 to 10 in Insulation is in? How much of the 10 to 14 in Roofing is in? So we could have some degree of what "at least" means for your EBIT leverage? It's obviously a great question.
So one thing that we're sensitive to obviously is we have had quite a bit of challenges forecasting I think in particular our Building Materials businesses as it relates to margins.
And so as we look at our outlook there's the things we have in hand today and there's the things we know could have an impact on margin performance through the year some of which are price-related but candidly some of which are inflation-related as associated with asphalt cost in Roofing and some of which are weather-related like storm demand in Roofing.
So there's still a bunch of variables out there in terms of input cost overall demand levels.
We're going to see 10.5 more months develop through the year before we have [indiscernible] our guidance today is primarily based on what we see today.
So we know that we came into the year with better prices in Insulation so we feel comfortable incorporating that into our guidance.
We know that we came out of 2012 with better prices in Roofing so we've incorporated that into our guidance and we know that we created $60 million  [indiscernible] average in Composites which will be in some ways offset by inflation and we've incorporated that into our guidance.
As we move through the year market conditions demand levels and inflation [ph] allow us to continue to make progress on margins in our Building Materials business.
That would largely be the upside to the guidance we've given.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Mr.
McMurray you commented in Composites that 1Q '13 would be -- I think you said worse than '12.
Were you referring to the fiscal year margins first quarter margins in '12 -- I mean they're pretty similar a? And then b the $60 million which you talked about before Mike in the Composites -- it's going to be a little bit less than that -- but you did have $30 million of cost inflation or input inflation is that -- you said that was going to be a similar number is that kind of the ballpark that we should think about the benefit you get and then there's still the drag on input cost given kind of a flat pricing outlook? On your first quarter question so in my prepared remarks I talked about first quarter '13 versus first quarter '12 and that we expected that performance to be down year-on-year primarily because we expect to produce less in the first quarter of '13 versus '12 as we're ramping up our asset base.
Now in regards to your inflation question yes I think as we sit here today our expectation around inflation would probably be similar to what we've seen in 2012.
Not sure if you want to add anything else to that Mike? No.
I would say that we're enjoying pretty low energy costs here in the United States so it's a little bit easy to lose track of inflation in global businesses.
But in the rest of the world energy inputs transportation costs chemicals that come off of energy -- chemicals that come off of oil-related feedstocks we're seeing inflation in those categories similar to what we saw last year and we're seeing labor cost inflation.
Now that's a little bit of a drag on our performance this year but I think it's a bit of a good news bad news story because the places where we're seeing the most labor cost inflation are developing countries like China and India -- that also tends to be where we're seeing the fiercest competition on an export basis into places like Europe and the United States.
So given that we have a low-cost asset base sited in Europe and the United States where in particular in the United States we see more muted inflation and in Europe we're improving our cost position having some inflation in developing countries will put pressure on exporters that are coming into markets where we think we're well-positioned with low-cost assets.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just trying to kind of understand better.
You historically said that the Composite business could do a 10% operating margin and obviously you're doing some strong operational moves to reposition the asset base to lower-cost geographies but there are also some takes there.
What do you think -- is the 10% margin achievable on a consistent basis? Or do you feel that these headwinds will make that difficult to achieve in the near term? Or what's your longer-term view on the business? Well I think in today's call Bob we maybe brought the Composites pricing story a little bit more prominently into our discussion of the business and that's probably appropriate at this time.
If you look at 2011 operating margins -- our 2012 operating margins were around 5%.
In 2011 we were at 10% so we demonstrated that level of performance.
We had negative operating margin -- negative operating leverage in 2012 but as we detailed in the K we had about $60  [ph] million of negative real price.
So inflation plus nominal price declines were $60 million which is about 3% of revenues.
So even with operating leverage at 0 or positive we gave up 3 points of margin to real price decline and then this year what we're saying is we're going to lose about 1/2 of that related to real price decline and that nominal prices are basically about flat.
If you listened to our comments we think the inflation level's about the same.
So if we lost 3% of real price last year we lost 1.5 on real price this year that's 4.5 points of margin.
The theme on the cost side is we've got some operating leverage that will allow us to get some improvement.
At $60 million that was about 3 points of operating leverage to revenue but it now has a headwind of about 4.5 points of real price decline.
So we're digging our way back out of a cost program that was designed to get us back to double-digit margins which today is really being used primarily to overcome real price declines.
I think we need to see the market get back to a condition in terms of utilization where we can at least get nominal prices to cover inflation and we stop losing real price so that we can start keeping our own productivity as a way to enhance our margins and then ultimately we'd like to see nominal prices exceed inflation and actually see real prices increase and start to add to our margin rates.
Typically in this industry that has been utilization-driven.
We talked at our last Investor Day last year and will update that this year when we do our Investor Day of what our view is on capacity utilization but certainly the trend there are that there has been demand growth without a lot of capacity being added.
So capacity utilization is healing.
It's healing at different rates based on products and different rates based on geographies.
So I don't think we're going to see a broad-based tightness in the industry but we do expect that this year we'll start to see some tightness in some product lines and some geographies which should potentially allow us to demonstrate to our investors the ability to get nominal price start covering some of this inflation and start working our margins back.
So I don't think double digit margins are at all unrealistic for this business.
We don't think the returns that we're experiencing are acceptable.
Our competitive benchmarking would say that we don't believe our competitors' returns are acceptable.
So at some point price is going to have to be part of the equation to get returns back to acceptable levels before we see reinvestment.
And right now we're not seeing reinvestment so our view on the market is pretty consistent with the actions that we're seeing in the marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
That makes sense.
Can you talk about Insulation just for a second? What are you expecting in terms of volume growth on the international and commercial side as opposed to residential for this year? Yes let me talk about international and maybe I'll have Michael talk about commercial.
On the Insulation side our international markets we report the U.S.
and Canada together.
So our primary market that we're reporting in the Insulation business is Asia Pacific when we talk about international which is a pretty nice business that we built primarily in China.
We're actually putting some capital into that business this year.
So we're going to build out some additional capacity and go further inland.
I think that's pretty consistent with most companies in China in that they're seeing more opportunity and growth in some of the bigger cities in Western China.
Today I think some of our growth opportunity is limited there because of our geographic footprint also our capacity.
So we're not looking for a big year of growth in the international segment but I think that's not so much opportunity-driven.
I think that's more -- we're at a next kind of step in our progress to be able to move geographic and market opportunity for ourselves which will allow us to grow again.
So I would say modest growth and certainly something that will be overwhelmed by our expectations of how much growth we'd see in new construction in the U.S.
I'll let Michael talk about the U.S.
and Canadian commercial market.
Yes thanks Mike.
To talk a little bit about commercial I mean one thing that I'd point out about our commercial Insulation business is that it tends to be more specified and more engineered.
And so during the downturn the price compression was far less than what we've experienced in say our residential channel.
From a demand perspective I mean our outlook is probably consistent with others.
I mean we expect that commercial is going to lag residential probably 12 to 18 months.
So we would not expect to see the same type of growth rates in commercial for '13 versus residential.
We expect to see some growth but it's going to be pretty moderate.
The last question is from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Mike I guess just the one question is trying to understand some of the pricing actions on the Roofing side just from a timing standpoint.
I think most of the industry including yourself had initially announced for an early February price increase and then that got delayed and you said today that you don't think that price announcements will really impact results until late first quarter early second quarter.
So can you just talk about what goes into a decision like that to delay the price and how that should be thought of in the context of more disciplined actions thus far on the pre-buy? Sure.
I think the facts that Dennis is referring to would be that early this year or late last year -- I don't have the timing in front of me -- we announced a price increase that would have been for February of the first quarter.
I think it was late in 2012.
Around that same time we were trying to figure out what we thought would be a competitive program for winter buys really achieving the 3 objectives I laid out in our third quarter call.
So we've said we think winter buys are an appropriate part of the market.
That said our goal would be to try to pass some lower-cost asphalt in the winter to our customers to give them a little bit lower cost inventory to give them an incentive to help us run our facilities in the winter which is seasonally weak and also to ensure that they have some of our inventory in their distribution yards in the first quarter so that if we get an early thaw if we get some storms if the reroof market picks up early we're not scrambling to try to get them some product and we miss some sales.
So there's good logic to why the industry has historically done winter buys.
What we saw last year was we gave incentives that were far too aggressive in terms of achieving those goals and in fact we distorted the entire year by putting a lot of very very low-cost inventory into the distribution channel in the first quarter which hurt us as a manufacturer and also hurt our customers because many of the distributors spent the year trying to figure out where was market pricing based on the value of their inventories and the value of their competitor's inventory and it wasn't a constructive environment for distribution either.
So when we came into this year as we were framing out our winter buy program we also announced a price increase for the first quarter.
I think as the quarter came into focus most of the negotiation came around how much volume would we have customers buy from us under the program that we had given them for winter buys.
That tended to dominate the discussion and made it pretty difficult to see how you would work a price increase into that discussion during the quarter.
So effectively what's happened is we have the winter buy volumes that will ship in the first quarter.
That price will become effective on non-winter buy volumes which will effectively be the volumes that aren't bought in the first quarter and that's why it becomes effective at the end of the quarter or beginning of the second quarter.
So that's kind of the dynamic.
It's much more the negotiation of the volumes inside the buys and then you get to the price increase once those volumes have been satisfied and that's the way we're managing our market position with our customers.
LLC</strong> That's fairly helpful.
So how do you as a manufacturer and other manufacturers protect against significant buys in the first quarter that ultimately kick that price increase down even further because there's not the need to reorder? Well I certainly can't speak for the other manufacturers.
I can only speak for Owens Corning's view on this.
But our view was to go back and spend a lot of time with our team reminding them why we do winter buys and I think those 3 principles I laid out are 3 principles that are probably hanging in a lot of offices in Owens Corning in terms of trying to make sure that we had very very clear discipline on what we wanted to accomplish with winter buys.
Obviously the distributors have an incentive to want to buy a lot of low-cost inventory in the first quarter but if you give lower discounts then the risk profile of them bringing in too much inventory and the incentive for them bringing too much inventory swings a bit and I think it becomes much more rational for them to want to buy some product and then let the year progress and bring additional product in on a replenishment basis.
So last year where our buy program was so aggressive there was really no trade-off.
The risk profile for our distributor -- they were much more biased.
They just wanted to bring in lots and lots of inventory.
I think we found a sweeter spot this year where we've given them enough incentive that they're helping us ship some product and load some business here in the first quarter but it hasn't been such an aggressive incentive that they want to buy a full year's worth of production here in the first quarter.
So that's the balancing act and I think it got a lot of our focus and a lot of our intention and we've tried to manage that very effectively over the course of the last 90 days.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just ask one quick one on Composites what's the underlying volume assumption that's embedded in the $60 million of operating leverage in the year? About 3% market growth on a global basis which is about consistent with what we've said in the third quarter.
We had originally -- a couple of years ago when we had talked about getting to double-digit operating margins we had embedded in that what our historical levels of market growth which is kind of in that 5% to 6% range.
I think it was the third quarter call maybe in the second quarter call where we said we think 2012 growth would only be about 3%.
We also now think 2013 growth would be at about that level.
So in effect it's taking us 2 years of growth today to get to what looks like should be about a year of growth 2 years ago and that's primarily related to Europe.
The thing I want to emphasize though and draw a line underneath is we're still talking about growth here.
So we have seen despite the turmoil in Europe despite some weakness and disappointment last year in India and Brazil despite China slowing down for a period of time all the different themes that we've talked about that have impacted the global Composites market we've continued to see fairly consistent growth in that market since the 2008 crisis -- just not at the levels we had hoped for.
Excellent.
Well thank you everyone for joining us for today's call and with that I'll hand it over back to Mike for some closing remarks.
Okay thanks Thierry.
Well first of all thank you everyone for joining us on today's call.
We always appreciate your interest in our company and your diligence in your evaluation of our performance.
I hope you heard from today's call that the Owens Corning team is in action working on those things that are most important to delivering shareholder value.
In addition to our great safety performance and our ongoing focus on safety we have a clear and I think distinct focus on improving the margins in our Building Materials businesses through the year a clear and distinct focus on getting the operating leverage in Composites that we worked so diligently in 2012 to create to get at least a portion of that through to our financial results in 2013 and it's really that focus and that action that underpins the core guidance we've given today.
In 2013 we do expect to deliver improved financial performance in all of our businesses.
With improved housing and modest global growth we anticipate that that improvement will be at least $100 million on the EBIT line and we anticipate that the rate of the U.S.
recovery and the margin performance in our Building Materials businesses will largely determine the upside to our guidance.
So we're coming into the year energized.
We're coming into the year focused and we're certainly excited to start putting some quarters behind us with improved financial results so that we can talk about the progress we have made and the future that we see for our company.
Thanks for joining us.
Bye-bye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Owens Corning First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you taking the time to join us for today's conference call in review of our business results for the first quarter of 2013.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this 1-hour call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a Form 10-Q that detailed our results for the first quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the quarter.
We will refer to these slides during the call.
You can access these slides at our website owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investors section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecast and estimates of future events.
Second these statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.
This presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP are found within the financial tables of our earnings release.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded items that we believe are unrepresentative of our ongoing operations to arrive at adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-over-period comparisons.
We exclude significant nonrecurring items such as the impact of restructuring actions discussed in recent earnings calls.
We believe that adjusted EBIT is helpful to investors for comparing our results from period to period.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which has the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the first quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 26.5% the midpoint of our anticipated annual effective tax rate range on adjusted earnings for 2013.
Before we begin the call I would like to point out the change to the format of our presentation.
Each quarter we feature a chart in each of our business slides depicting revenue percentages by end markets.
The purpose of these charts is to provide investors with an estimate of the exporter of each business to these end markets.
We will continue to provide this information.
However going forward we will update it on an annual basis.
As we review the process required to produce this information we determine that the calculations are better suited for annual update.
We will continue to comment on the key drivers of our revenue performance during quarterly earnings calls.
Now for most of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by CFO Michael McMurray.
Mike will then provide some closing comments prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our first quarter results.
Owens Corning delivered a strong first quarter.
Driven by performance in Roofing we reported $77 million in adjusted EBIT up $34 million from last year.
Consolidated revenue for the first quarter was $1.3 billion flat with the first quarter of 2012 and adjusted earnings were $35 million up from $11 million last year.
I said on our last call that I was pleased with how we had closed out 2012 and that I expected Owens Corning to get off to a good start in 2013.
I'm satisfied with our overall progress in the quarter.
During our February call we discussed a number of expectations for improved performance across our business in 2013.
Let me review them now starting with safety.
As is the case every quarter we said that we would continue to make progress towards our goal of creating an injury-free workplace.
This was an area of disappointment in the first quarter.
In the quarter our total number of recordable injuries increased to 26 compared to 15 in the same period last year.
We experienced a very difficult February but safety performance in March and April has been much improved.
We remain focused on creating an injury-free workplace and are committed to achieving a 12 consecutive year of safety improvement in 2013.
In Roofing we said that our main near-term focus was to start the year with better margins and more discipline in our winter buy programs.
Building on our good margin management in the fourth quarter of 2012 Roofing grew margins to 20% for the quarter a 6-point increase over the first quarter of 2012.
Roofing delivered $119 million of EBIT a $36 million increase over the same period last year.
We are pleased that effective price executions fueled first quarter profitability supporting this objective.
In Insulation we said the outlook for continued improvement in the U.S.
housing markets used housing starts would translate into a return to profitability in 2013.
The improving U.S.
housing market and strong outlook underpin our belief that we will be able to build on the performance improvement we saw in 2012 and deliver full year profitability for Insulation this year.
Due to the seasonal nature of this business the first quarter was not yet profitable.
However we narrowed quarterly losses in the business by $13 million compared to the same period 1 year ago.
Insulation prices have improved across the business with sequential price performance being good and we've announced an additional price increase that will be effective in the second quarter.
We said Composites' financial performance would improve as the year progresses as we demonstrate operating leverage in a stable price environment.
In Composites net sales of $459 million were down from $476 million in the first quarter of 2012 due to product mix and currency.
And first quarter EBIT of $9 million was down from $23 million last year on lower production and inflation which we anticipated.
We completed the asset ramp-up in Composites during the first quarter.
We are now positioned to achieve operating leverage that supports improved year-over-year margins for the business in 2013.
Now I'd like to take a moment to discuss our outlook for the year in each of our businesses beginning with Roofing.
We expect the overall Roofing market opportunity to be at or above 2012 levels.
While storm volumes are inherently difficult to forecast strength in new construction and the ongoing recovery in reroof demand should offset any potential negative comp from storm demand.
Our first quarter performance represents a great start to the year.
We ended the second quarter with dramatically better margin rates than last year.
However sequential margin improvement from the first quarter to the second is not expected to be as significant as it was in 2012 due to the lower levels of first quarter discounting this year.
With new prices taking effect this quarter and the ongoing recovery in the U.S.
housing market we remain confident in achieving year-over-year margin improvement in 2013.
In the Insulation business we anticipate continued growth in U.S.
residential new construction better capacity utilization and improved pricing.
First quarter price performance was strong.
The successful execution of our second quarter price increase could provide further price acceleration in the second half of the year when volumes are seasonally strongest.
We still have a long way to go to return this business to our historical volumes price and return levels.
But we are happy with our recent progress and optimistic that a sustained housing recovery will provide us with the market conditions to achieve that goal.
Despite flat overall revenue performance in the first quarter we expect double-digit revenue growth for Insulation in 2013.
Mike will provide some further comments on first quarter volumes and outlook in his remarks.
In Composites our asset repositioning and first quarter asset ramp-up have positioned our plans to increase operating leverage and to begin realizing the full benefits of lower manufacturing costs that will yield improved margins over last year.
We anticipate accelerating growth in industrial production as the year progresses and we'll continue to look for opportunities to support our margins in this business with improved pricing.
On our call in February I reviewed 3 key indicators for the business.
We came into the year looking for $60 million in operating leverage offset by about $30 million in inflation and flat nominal pricing.
At the end of the first quarter we are still tracking well with the leverage and inflation guidance.
We were required to respond to a couple of specific competitive pricing situations that impacted the quarter by $3 million and would impact the full year by about $10 million.
Despite these challenges the overall market pricing was broadly stable with positive price trends in some developing economies that suffered particularly weak pricing last year.
Of particular note Jushi and Taishan both announced price increases in China late in the quarter.
We have announced a price increase in China.
We are hopeful that a positive price trend in China can create momentum for price improvements in Europe and the U.S.
in the second half of this year.
Given current trends we believe that flat nominal pricing may still be achievable for 2013.
For Owens Corning the strength of an improving housing market in the U.S.
and modest global growth will drive overall improvement of at least $100 million in EBIT.
We expect all 3 businesses to show improvement in 2013 and we expect that the rate of the U.S.
housing recovery and its impact on margin performance in our Building Materials businesses will largely determine the upside to our guidance.
With that I'll now turn it over to Michael who will further review details of our business and corporate performance.
I'll then return to recap and open it up for questions.
Michael? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier our strong first quarter performance supports our outlook that we will deliver EBIT improvement of at least $100 million in 2013 with potential upside based on the rates of the U.S.
housing recovery and its impact on Building Materials' margins.
In the first quarter our Roofing business delivered 20% EBIT margins through effective price execution.
Our Insulation business demonstrated strong price performance in the quarter and is on track for full year profitability in 2013.
Finally the ramp-up of our assets in Composites business is complete and we're positioned to deliver positive operating leverage for the balance of 2013.
Now let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in today's tables of the news release and Form 10-Q.
Today we reported first quarter 2013 consolidated net sales of $1.3 billion which were flat compared with the same period in 2012.
In our Roofing business net sales were up 3% over the prior year on an improved pricing environment while sales were off slightly.
Net sales in our Insulation business were essentially flat as the impact of an improved pricing environment was primarily offset by the timing of price increases announced in 2012 and weakness in some of the international markets that we serve.
Lastly net sales in our Composites business were down 4% due primarily to unfavorable product mix and the impact of foreign exchange translation.
In a moment I'll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-to-period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the first quarter of 2013 was $77 million compared to $43 million in the same period 1 year ago.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2013 were $35 million or $0.29 per diluted share compared to $11 million or $0.09 per diluted share in 2012.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $78 million including $3 million of accelerated depreciation related to our asset repositioning in Europe.
Depreciation and amortization was $11 million lower than the first quarter of 2012 which included $18 million of accelerated depreciation related to our asset restructuring in Europe.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $45 million.
Next let me reconcile our first quarter adjusted EBIT of $77 million to our recorded EBIT of $57 million.
We have adjusted that $11 million of cost related to the flood that occurred in October 2012 at our New Jersey roofing facility as a result of Hurricane Sandy.
As we noted in our fourth quarter call the incident wasn't sure and we believe that the overall financial impact will be minimal.
We are well on our way with the rebuilding of our facility which is anticipated to be completed later this year.
In addition we've adjusted that $9 million related to our previously announced 2012 restructuring actions.
Now please turn to Slide 6 and I'll provide a high-level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing the first quarter of 2013 with the same period 1 year ago.
Adjusted EBIT improved $34 million.
The $36 million improvement on our Roofing business and the $13 million improvement in our Insulation business were partially offset by a decline in our Composite EBIT of $14 million.
General corporate expenses were relatively flat versus the prior year.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 7 where we provide a more detailed review of our businesses starting with Building Materials.
For the first quarter Building Materials net sales were $937 million a 2% increase compared to the prior year.
Building Materials delivered $98 million in EBIT up $49 million from the same period in 2012.
Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were $607 million a 3% increase compared with the same period a year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was $119 million up $36 million compared to the same period in 2012.
Despite smaller winter incentives this year we saw similar buying patterns in the first quarter of 2013 versus 2012.
Distribution likely build inventories in the first quarter in anticipation of higher prices in the second quarter and the start of the roofing season which is typically strongest in the second and third quarters.
Unlike last year where first quarter margins were depressed EBIT margins for the first quarter were 20% up 6 points year-over-year.
We significantly improved price execution in the first quarter which is the key milestone for us to deliver on the goals we have laid out for 2013.
As we move into the second quarter we expect to benefit from the end of the first quarter winter incentives and our price increase that has gone into effect for the quarter.
The sequential improvement from the first quarter to the second quarter of 2013 is not expected to be as strong as last year due to cheaper levels of discounting we experienced in 2012.
As we look forward to the remainder of 2013 there is potential for negative storm comparison as 2012 storm volumes were above the historical average.
The outlook for U.S.
housing supports improvement and the new residential construction market and modest growth in reroof demand which together should offset any potential negative comparison from strong demand.
Based on our outlook for the market we maintain our expectation of improved financial performance in our Roofing business for 2013.
Now Slide 9 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
Net sales for the quarter in Insulation of $330 million were essentially flat with the same period last year.
The business narrowed losses from $34 million last year to $21 million for the first quarter of 2013 on strong price execution.
The business demonstrated strong sequential price improvement in the first quarter and we have announced an additional pricing action effective in early June although pricing still remains significantly below historical levels.
Price execution contributed to a 5% increase in revenue across the business offsetting the impact of improved pricing with lower sales volumes across a number of insulation businesses particularly in markets outside of the United States.
Within our Insulation business we operate across several end markets which have different demand drivers and other factors that can impact our sales volume on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
In reviewing our first quarter sales performance we evaluated and have taken into consideration the timing of price increases channel mix the mix between single and multifamily the length of the lag growth in markets outside of the U.S.
and the potential effects of weather.
Our assessment is that overall market demand and our respective share are tracking in line with our expectations.
U.S.
new residential construction volumes are healthy and are largely consistent with growth trends in new U.S.
housing starts.
In addition volumes throughout the first quarter and we're off to a strong start in April.
All this supports our view that we can achieve double-digit revenue growth for the full year in our Insulation business.
As the U.S.
housing market continues to recover we expect to see further sales growth with improved pricing as industry capacity utilization tightens.
With the pricing actions we have taken and the improved manufacturing performance we have demonstrated year-over-year we remain confident in our guidance to return to profitability for the full year 2013.
Now I'll ask you to turn your attention to Slide 10 for a review of our Composites business.
Net sales in our Composites business for the quarter were $459 million a 4% decrease compared to the same period in 2012.
The decline in revenue was about equally driven by unfavorable product mix and the impact of foreign exchange translation.
Slightly lower selling prices were offset by a small increase in overall glass fiber volumes.
EBIT for the quarter was $9 million compared to $23 million in the same period last year.
Roughly half the decline in EBIT was due to lower production levels compared to the same period last year with the remaining decline being a result of inflation and slightly lower selling prices.
In the fourth quarter call we said that first quarter 2013 results would comp negatively to 2012 and that full year 2013 would comp positively to the full year 2012.
As we have moved into the second quarter we expect material sequential improvement driven by stronger productivity improved leverage and growth in sales volumes.
Specifically we expect second quarter performance to comp broadly in line with last year and that the second half will comp positively year-over-year.
As we look to the full year we continue to expect that the benefits of our asset transformation increased utilization of our low-cost asset base and modest growth in global reinforcements demand resulted in improved margins in 2013 compared to 2012.
With that review of our first quarter performance I now ask you to turn to Slide 11 where we review our financial guidance for 2013.
We continue to expect that capital spending will be about $380 million.
The recorded capital spending will include the rebuild of our New Jersey roofing facility damaged during Hurricane Sandy which we will recover through insurance proceeds.
As a result normalized capital spending is expected to be roughly in line with depreciation and amortization of about $315 million.
We expect corporate expenses to be about $120 million.
Our $2.3 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
In 2013 we expect our effective tax rate on adjusted pretax earnings to be 25% to 28% and our cash tax rate to be 10% to 12%.
We have used this midpoint in our effective tax rate guidance as the pro forma rate to calculate our adjusted EPS as disclosed in Table 3 of our earnings release.
10 million shares remain available for repurchase under the company stock repurchase program.
As we balance our priorities for the deployment of our free cash flow stock repurchases will continue to be an important mechanism to return capital to shareholders.
Thank you and I'll now hand the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I noted at the outset of today's call Owens Corning is off to a strong start to 2013.
We are delivering on the plans we outlined for the year and establishing momentum for continued progress through the year.
This performance reaffirms our confidence in our full year outlook for margin improvement in each of our businesses our broader outlook for at least $100 million in adjusted EBITDA improvement and potential upside to this guidance as the U.S.
housing market and global economies recover.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Thierry who will lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Emily we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is John and Steve.
I just wanted to touch base on roofing first.
Volumes were down -- sorry sales were down modestly -- or up modestly in the quarter.
Our sense is that pricing was up mid to high single digits.
So I'm just trying to get a better idea of where volumes were in the quarter.
You had indicated that there were similar buy-in in 1Q '13 to 1Q '12.
So I just wanted to maybe get a little more granularity on where volumes were in the quarter.
Great question.
Obviously we were very very pleased with the Roofing results for the first quarter.
One of our key objectives coming into the quarter obviously was to manage the buys a little bit more effectively than we have in the past.
And I think the objectives we set out really starting I think with the third quarter call and then on the fourth quarter call on trying to set buys that gave our customers an incentive to stock in some inventory and reposition for the start of the reroof market but not to overdo it and to make sure that with low capital or low-cost money in the market today we didn't give away our margins in order to achieve that goal.
I think you can look at the first quarter and feel like we really did make progress on that.
That said I think the combination of the buys as well as a lot of confidence in the late March early April price increase caused distribution to want to buy ahead of the price increase and bring inventories in in the first quarter.
We think that pattern is pretty similar to what we saw last year.
So last year we said we shipped about 30% of the year in the first quarter.
On a flat overall market this year I would say we probably believe we did about the same thing here in the first quarter.
Our volumes were down slightly.
When we look at that we look at geographic mix channel mix some other variables in terms of our overall performance.
Our sense is maybe the market shipped a few more squares in the first quarter we may be shipped a few less but we're comfortable that we sustained our position in the market.
We're not going to overreact to any of that data.
So our sense is we're in good shape in terms of the position we have in the market here in the first quarter that margins are in good shape.
That there's a fair amount of confidence around this price increase for early April which is why we saw a lot of volumes in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then just moving to Insulation really quickly.
So Insulation just trying to get an idea to the extent that volumes were down in the first quarter because just given what we've seen in new home construction you would have expected to see probably a bit better top line in the Insulation segments.
So I'm just wondering if you can maybe give some color on that.
Yes sure.
I mean I think it's certainly a very legitimate question and a place we focus a lot of our time in looking at the quarter making sure that we're comfortable with the progression of the installation business.
And I think you heard in my comments and in Michael's comments in fact we are and we feel like we had a representative quarter on volume and a very very good quarter on price.
Some of the things that go into that I mean first if you look at the chart that we produce on revenue by end market for 2012 we think that residential new construction in the U.S.
and Canada is about 37% of the overall business.
Canada was pretty good last year so probably the U.S.
piece of that is 30% or less.
So when we see very strong improvement in U.S.
construction we're still at a point today because the market's relatively depressed that we're only impacting 30% of the overall mix in the Insulation segment.
When you go outside of that segment and when you come outside of that market Canada was a bit weaker.
We think that was -- the housing market there is slowing down a bit and also they had a real winter this year and I think last year had next to no winter.
We saw a little bit slower performance in some other geographies and some other channels which we think is generally economically -- economic-related and also somewhat weather-related.
We know that we've got an interesting comp last year because we had a very very early spring.
We had timing of price increases that probably confounded the quarter.
So last year pricing kind of drove volume into the first quarter.
This year a late 2012 price increase probably pulled volume out of the quarter so that hurt our comparability.
So we went through all that analysis and took a look and said is there anything that causes us to believe that that core recovery market for us which is U.S.
residential new construction that somehow we're not tracking with that or we're not going to see the benefits of that and we feel very confident looking at the trends and our volumes the fact that they've built pretty much week on week month on month since the beginning of the year that we're seeing the kind of volume ramp you'd expect to see.
And I think the guidance we gave today both Michael and I in our comments talked about double-digit overall revenue growth for Insulation for the full year which obviously means we're going to need to accelerate because we're flat in the first quarter.
I think the headline for insulation in the first quarter is a very strong price performance.
That's going to help us a lot when the volumes come is to be selling at better prices.
Our next question comes from Ken Zener of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Mike I wonder if you could address in Roofing to us it appears a lot of the margin gain sequentially was tied to volumes so better fixed cost absorption.
We've been looking at or thinking about gross margins in this business to isolate the seasonality and it looks to us as though in fact gross margins historically doesn't go up unless you have rising asphalt costs kind of quarter-to-quarter.
Could you if possible maybe comment on that how critical rising asphalt costs are quarter-to-quarter in order to enable you to achieve sequential price gains? Sure Ken.
I mean let me talk to your first point and then I'll address your second.
On your first point you said that you thought maybe better volumes in the first quarter were giving us a little bit better absorption helping margins.
And in fact our volumes were effectively flat from the first quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2012.
So all of the margin improvement that we're showing in the first quarter is really the spread between sale prices and input costs which we think is very very good news and largely that spread or margin derived from the fact that the winter discounts or the winter incentives this year were much more conservative than what we had provided last year.
I think last year we characterized them as being double-digit.
This year we -- I think on the fourth quarter call said we thought they'd be mid single digits really the difference between the level of discount last year to level of discount this year is what drove the improved margins in the first quarter.
We're real happy to sell shingles in the first quarter provided we do at good margins.
So I think last year it wasn't so much volume in the first quarter that bothered us as that we had sold a lot of our annual volume in the first quarter at very very low margins.
I think this year we sold a good amount of volume in the first quarter.
We sold it at representatively good margins.
As you look at how pricing works I think I'll partially agree with your supposition that rising asphalt costs can be a catalyst for improved pricing but so can demand and end-use market dynamics.
So as we came into the second quarter I think everyone begins to see asphalt costs come up as you come off of winter loads and some opportunity to buy a lower cost asphalt.
So even today in a fairly stable oil price environment asphalt costs are going to push our economics a bit and we feel fairly confident that the April 1 price increase that's out there is a good price increase and will help us cover cost inflation and help us continue to manage our margins.
I think as you go beyond that we've had some years where we saw very rapid oil price inflation and asphalt cost inflation and that in fact did create an impetus for further pricing actions.
We would hope that this year what we would see is stronger reroof demand and stronger end market demand which just created more pull from customers needing more shingles which might support further pricing action.
So I think this year unless we see a big change in oil prices it'll be the demand dynamics which should help pricing and should help margin rates.
Research Division</strong> And then for Composites the mix issue that we're seeing given that it looks like for the quarter in your Q volume was up 1%.
Can you address I mean why that's happening? Is it that you're getting less quality industrial demand out of Europe? Is it that perhaps it's becoming a more commoditized product as the intellectual I guess the product differential between the China and say your product is compressing? Because that seems that the mix seems to have played in as much to the pricing side in terms of the margin pressure.
I'd be happy to talk about that.
I mean first of all let me know that we really said it was both mix and foreign exchange so we did have a foreign exchange headwind in the quarter not so much kind of our classic U.S.
euro exchange rate which has been a big driver of performance in the business.
But it was more the developing countries Brazil India a couple others where we saw some real weakening in the currency.
So we had some translation.
That would have been translation on both top line and also those tend to be good markets for us so there was some translation also at the EBIT line.
The mix issue when we recounted out the numbers or talked about the quarter we talked about mix as it related to recounting revenue we didn't really talk about mix as it relates the reconciliation at the EBIT line.
So the mix that we saw we have some markets where we have further fabrication steps where we add some additional value to the product.
Doesn't necessarily have a big driver on our profitability.
We tend to have higher costs in some of those markets and higher prices in some of those markets but it's not necessarily kind of sweeter mix for us at the EBIT line.
So really it was kind of a big driver of revenue it was less of a driver of how we thought about the profitability of the business which is why we weren't fundamentally concerned about that.
We didn't see really valuable markets for us get weaker.
We just saw some higher-priced highest-cost markets for us get a little bit weaker.
That said I spoke specifically to a couple of instances in the quarter where we are a little disappointed with pricing.
I think our outlook and our optimism was legitimate on the fourth quarter call when we said we thought flat nominal pricing was an achievable goal for the year.
We're still saying we think that's achievable although we went about $3 million backwards in the quarter.
Interestingly it was a little different this quarter than what we've seen maybe over the last 3 or 4 years which is some of the competitive intensity was actually in the U.S.
and Europe and it was with some of our more traditional Western European and U.S.
competitors less with our Chinese competitors.
We needed to adjust our market price in a couple of very specific instances to stay competitive and felt like that was the right thing to do.
So in specific competitive situations we saw some negatives on the business that we would rather have avoided.
Positively though I mentioned in my comments we've seen Jushi and Taishan both announce price increases in China.
We announced price increase in China.
Our view would be at the lowest end of the market with the lowest prices and the poorest margins begin to come up that that will start to create a global environment where there may be some opportunity for us to make progress on pricing in some of the better markets where we do have decent margins but not acceptable margins.
So we've seen some price trends in the quarter that caused us to continue to be confident.
We can get some price this year.
Unfortunately I think the first better price we get this year is going to need to be -- to overcome some price loss we had in the first quarter which was pretty small in the overall scheme of things and get us back to our overall expectations for the year which was flat nominal pricing.
So all in all I would say it's a pretty balanced message on Composites.
Volumes were decent.
They continue to grow.
Pricing was decent a couple little bit of disappointments but some positive trends and we're looking forward to maybe seeing some turn in that business from our operations perspective coming here in a second.
And then in the second half maybe we will start to see operations some volumes and then hopefully some price which will probably have a bigger impact than giving us momentum into 2014.
And our next question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Mike I didn't hear you mention a pricing change in Roofing like you had called on Insulation.
If you had I missed it.
If not please provide a bit more granularity on what you think your net pricing was in the quarter within Roofing.
That's question 1.
Question 2 would be certainly you have to be happy with the margins that you had in the first quarter in Roofing 20% margin or so.
What makes you comfortable that there's sufficient barriers to entry within the business particularly in North America given that's not really a high capital intensity type of business? Rather it's more of a converting business.
Market share is one thing but what would be the other things that make you feel that you can hold onto these margins given the barriers to entry? Sure.
I mean to your first question I think we've talked about pricing in 2 ways and I'll just summarize that.
First of all was the impact of first quarter discounting which was quite a bit less dramatic this year than it was prior year which I think really drove most of the delta margin between first quarter 2012 and first quarter 2013.
Secondly we talked about an April 1st price increase which we feel comfortable is well supported by our customers and gives us an opportunity to recover some of the cost inflation we saw in the first part of this year.
So we think both looking back on the quarter and looking ahead to the second we're delivering relatively positive pricing news today and then we're also delivering a relatively positive pricing outlook going into the second quarter.
Related to barriers to entry I mean I'll give you an empirical answer first.
I mean the single thing that gives me the most confidence about barriers to entry is this is a business sort of an industry that's gone from 30 competitors to 5 competitors over the course of the last 30 years.
And we haven't seen anyone enter and we've seen 25 competitors exit.
So it's been an industry that's been going through a very long and sustained consolidation and I think that's because it's still a pretty hard business.
You've got to have good technology you got to know how to make a shingle you got to be able to stand behind it for 30 or more years based on the warranties that we write.
You have to have access to raw materials consistently.
You have access to distribution.
You need to have knowledgeable people who can work downstream and help contractors understand how to sell your products.
You need to have the sophistication to be able to do business with a big box retailer like Lowe's and those are all things that we do in our business.
So it's a pretty high mountain to climb to go from believing you can take a bunch of capital and build a roofing plant to figuring out how you get it loaded at high margins and run it 12 months a year.
And at least at this point we haven't really seen anyone try that over the course of the last 3 decades.
Our next question is from Mike Wood of Macquarie.
On the Roofing segment I'm curious to get your thoughts in terms of the pre-buy you said could account for 30% of the full year volume on a flat tape.
Do you think that that's more a lack of industry discipline in managing the pre-buy this year? Or do you think your competitors had different expectations for the full year Roofing volumes? No.
See kind of that's 2 questions there let me go to the first one.
I don't think it's a lack of discipline.
I mean right now what we're seeing is cost of capital is very very low on the credit side.
So if you can borrow money very cheaply which most of our customers can they're good creditworthy companies and they can get 5% discount to buy shingles in the first quarter and it's also in advance of an April 1st price increase the economics of borrowing some money or tapping your credit line to carry inventories in the first quarter is going to make economic sense to distribution and I think we've seen them act consistent with economics.
And remember one of the things about roofing is it's designed to be stored outside.
I mean it lives its life on the roof.
So if you buy shingles you don't have to have tremendous warehousing capabilities or other things.
As long as you got a yard you got a place where you can store some shingles.
The fact is we saw just as much volume this year in the first quarter as we saw last year with dramatically lower discounts which would suggest to me that even the level of discounting we provided in the first quarter this year may be unnecessary to give our customers a proper incentive.
So between the combination of the discounting and an April 1st price increase which is an incentive for them to buy ahead of a price increase we saw that with less incentives it still made economic sense for our customers to bring in the same type of volumes that they brought in last year.
So we'll continue to evaluate what's the right mix of incentives in pre-price buying to advantage our customers and give them the ability to make money but also make sure that we're selling our shingles at optimal margins.
So in total dramatically better performance this year by our business and I think you probably see that across the industry.
Now in terms of total volumes we said we think the market this year will be at or above 2012 levels in terms of total market opportunity.
We had a pretty big storm year last year.
So if you just say storms this year we'll be about average we would expect storms to comp negatively.
We would expect new construction to comp positively that's pretty linear.
That would about offset the reduction in storm demand if you bring storms back to average.
So the growth in the market this year why they come from storms which are almost impossible for us to forecast or it'll come from the reroof market coming back due to better existing home sales better home prices more equity in homes more access to credit.
Now we're highly highly confident at some point improving home prices existing home sales better access to credit more equity at homes will drive reroof demand.
We've been pretty cautious about calling when that will happen.
So we would say this year we would expect maybe tepid growth in reroof and I think we'll change our view on that when we see something more than tepid growth.
Now from an operational point of view we have our assets well positioned our inventories well positioned.
If we saw an uptick in the market due to either storms and reroof demand we'd be in the position to support our share in the market.
Okay and also you'd mentioned earlier in the call about some cost headwinds in the Roofing segment.
You previously mentioned refinery economics may lead to some higher asphalt inflation this year.
Can you actually quantify what you're seeing to date? Well I think all of the main themes we've talked about there on asphalt are still in place which is we've seen great consolidation among refineries because of the configuration of the refineries and their feedstock for many of the refineries making asphalt has become a less attractive opportunity for them.
So in effect asphalt continues to trend to having the economics of being a refined product not of being a byproduct.
So I was used to being able to buy asphalt because kind of refineries were stuck with it.
That's where they made all the products they wanted to make.
I think today they look at their crack economics and they've got to be able to justify making asphalt at the bottom end of the barrel.
So with oil prices stable and still elevated with winter going behind us and with summer paving season coming we always see at this time of the year an uptick in our asphalt costs and that would be the inflation we would expect to see this year.
Our next question is from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The first question on Composites.
You mentioned that margins I believe should be up year-over-year in the second quarter 2Q '13 versus 2Q '12 and in the second half also better year-over-year.
But would you expect the second half to be better than 2Q's levels given your expectations maybe -- you kind of give a lot of pluses and minuses on the pricing side but also relative to your expectations for demand? Yes.
What Michael said in his prepared remarks was we expected that the second quarter would comp more in line with the second quarter of last year.
So I don't think we guided to kind of margin expansion in the second quarter.
But clearly since we came in well below in the first quarter I think that's an expression of confidence that you'll start to see the business turn the quarter in the second and then really because we think the business will improve for the full year.
It's kind of just math obviously since we are behind in the first quarter we'll kind of be in line with last year in the second quarter.
We're going to have to beat in the second half and build some momentum going into 2014.
We have not given any guidance or broken out any point of view on the second half in terms of how that will break by quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then also on the Roofing segment with the April 1 price increase I believe we've heard that and perhaps you can just confirm or comment on this different things about the success or lack thereof of the February price increase if that indeed went through.
I was hoping if you can give some color on that and also the degree of magnitude that you're expecting in terms of percentage price increase for Roofing effective April 1st and what potential realization rate you'd get from that? I want to make sure we kind of don't confuse matters.
There was pricing announced earlier in the year somewhat which was announced that would take place or be effective in February.
But in fact with the way kind of your first quarter buys work is we negotiate with our distribution customers in terms of quantities and volumes of product.
In our case volumes and quantity of product that they would buy in the first quarter and that we would ship in the first quarter as we try to be very disciplined about not letting volumes and pricing in the first quarter carry over into the second.
So those price negotiations or the structure of the market kind of caused you to do business in the first quarter at specific negotiated prices.
So in effect that February price increase is the April price increase which is once we get out of shipments for the winter buy then effectively you go to new pricing and that's the pricing that we're seeing in early April and we've expressed a fair amount of confidence in the effectiveness of that price.
Now that's the way it worked in our case I think different competitors announced and executed their price increases in different ways but that generally across the industry our sense is winter buys applied to volumes and shipments in the first quarter with first quarter pricing and that whatever prices were announced in the first quarter would take effect early in the second quarter.
That's the way certainly we viewed pricing and we think that's consistent and has kept us competitive.
Our next question is from Bob Wetenhall of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you guys could walk us through the path to double-digit revenue growth and profitability in Insulation segment.
And I was just trying to understand about your comments that there were some pre-buy in the fourth quarter which moved volumes into 4Q.
And then in the context of that you expect to see that volume come back later in the year.
Bob it's Michael.
Yes I mean as we said on the quarter itself looking at it year-on-year and then bolt-on some trends that we're seeing we had 2 price increases that were announced in 2012 one that caused pull forward into last year's first quarter and a price increase late this year that caused pull forward late last year which impacted comparability for the first quarter this year versus the first quarter of last year prominently in our U.S.
residential basing business.
In addition we've been impacted by weather.
So if you recall last year was very very warm which we think was positive from a demand catalyst point of view.
And then this winter it tends to be very cold in a number of our markets both here in the U.S.
but also Canada and then also actually China as well.
So as we kind of dissect all that data take a look at where we see starts as to where they are right now.
As we look at where we see starts trending for the rest of the year as we look at the demand that we saw in January February and then building through March and April actually gives us quite a degree of confidence around delivering double-digit top line for Insulation business in '13.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's real helpful.
Just quick follow-up on Composites.
When you're saying broadly in line for 2Q and second half were you talking about either margins or absolute dollars on a year-over-year basis? And just follow up what was the dollar impact of negative FX? I know sales were off $17 million year-over-year due to mix and FX.
If you could break those out that will be great.
Sure.
I mean in response to your first question we're really talking margin rate but we said that the volumes in the business are reasonably good.
So I don't think we're expecting a giant change in revenue.
It's much more important for us to get the operating leverage and start changing the amount of money we make on the volume we have is really our key focal point in that business.
If you'd look at FX I mean FX was probably half less than half of the impact on the top line in the first quarter and had really de minimis impact on EBIT in the quarter.
The next question is from Garik Shmois of Longbow Research.
First question is on Insulation and the top line guidance that you have for the full year the double-digit.
You mentioned that you have a 2Q price increase that's announced.
How dependent are you on securing a meaningful portion of that price increase in order to hit your double-digit top line guidance? Well Garik I mean we really do believe that the key theme in growing the top line in Insulation is going to be improved volumes.
So the portion of our business which is residential new construction on the one hand I said earlier that it's probably the U.S.
portion of that is only about 30% of overall volume mix.
The flip side is we're now moving into our second consecutive year where that market should be growing 25% -- excuse me or more.
So it helps a lot to have 1/3 of the business growing at very very strong double-digit levels.
We also did say though that we already have book to firm on a price here in the first quarter.
That price was the driver of EBIT improvement year-over-year.
So clearly if you can have broad gains and pricing that you carry through the year and you get volumes growing to underpin that and when you add those 2 together I don't think terribly difficult to see how you can do double digit revenue growth.
I guess one more point of clarification on the Composites business.
With respect to the $10 million impact on pricing that you saw in the first quarter of the year and how that's going to impact the full year.
Just wondering if you can provide a little bit more clarification.
Would you be able to recover that $10 million potentially upside to that $10 million if you can get nominal pricing flat for the full year meaning that the price increases that you have announced.
In China if that carries through to other geographies with the net impact being more than the $10 million that you're anticipating to lose from the first quarter action? Yes.
I mean -- so first of all let me try to clarify.
In the first quarter we had an impact to the quarter on pricing of about $3 million which I would say was unanticipated when we talked about our outlook for the year.
So those were deals that were kind of getting done in the first quarter for 2013 which were a little less favorable than we had expected.
So we annualize that and said that the $3 million we lost in the first quarter the price would have a full year impact of about 10 just because of the timing of shipments and how the adjustments work.
So relative to nominal pricing we probably started the year at 0 we probably started the year at negative $10 million so the first $10 million of positive price we get is going to fill the hole and then we'll kind of dig our way back out of that hole and start pushing margins based on positive price realization.
I would say we expected prices to be relatively stable at this time of year they are.
We in our competitive analysis which we've shared at each of our Investor Days we've seen over the last 5 years since the financial crisis a tremendous reversal in the rate at which the players in this industry have been adding capacity.
We think we've completed -- now this will be the fifth consecutive year where the amount of capacity added in the industry will trail demand growth.
It takes about 2 years to add a melter so we have pretty good outlook for '14 and '15.
We would say our expectation would be we've got 2 more years ahead of us where a capacity that will be added in the industry below demand growth.
So we're seeing our utilizations improve because of our restructurings and other things we're doing and improving our cost position.
And we're also seeing that returns industrywide are not justifying or are not a catalyst for broad-based capacity expansion by us or our competitors.
So that's all a positive indicator that we'd say we should get into a positive pricing cycle here.
The news that I shared on today's call which is that we saw both Jushi and Taishan announce a price increase in China would be kind of one of those leading indicators that you would look for that would say that our competitive analysis is directionally correct and that the way the industry needs to play out over the next 4 8 12 quarters that we've got our arms around that correctly.
I mean it's a difficult thing when you're in an inflection point and starting to move into a positive pricing cycle is actually calling the beginning of that and understanding what the curve's going to look like once you bottomed.
I think what we're trying to say on today's call is we feel like we've probably moved to the bottom here in the first quarter.
And as long as we don't see some demand disruption or something unexpected in the global economy if we can get good sequential growth and demand that continues to load the industry's assets with inflation in places like China with very very low margins and pull returns for virtually all the industry participants we'd expect that we're going to be able to start driving pricing in the marketplace and improve our margins through pricing.
The next question will come from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I just want to clarify one thing on the Insulation side make sure I'm thinking about it correctly.
Isn't cold weather good for reinsulation demand? Yes I think that's fair.
I would say late-season cold weather helps us a lot less than early season cold weather.
So if it's October and suddenly it gets very very cold people are looking ahead to 5 months of winter and saying gee maybe I should head on to the local Home Depot and buy some insulation and try to improve my house.
When winter hangs around in March and April as it has here in Ohio I think it just makes people grumpy but I'm not sure it makes people insulate.
So the return on investment when you've got winter ahead of you is very different than the return on investment when you're hoping winter will go away.
So it probably helps some.
I wouldn't be entirely dismissive but we've certainly tended to see that a very early season cold snap very cold weather in September or October is a much better catalyst for reinsulation sales than kind of this winter we're having this year which just won't go away.
LLC</strong> Okay and I think that makes sense.
And just to clarify the retail business or the reinsulation business would have been down in the quarter versus last year? Yes I mean we looked at -- we kind of went through the different markets that we manage and obviously at retail you see a lot of different things that are also associated with inventory levels and how we service stores and win lumber yards and other retail channels outside of big-box kind of bring inventories in.
So there's a lot that we would put in that category called retail.
But generally across most of the segments Insulation was a little bit weaker in the first quarter largely for the things Michael was citing which is the timing of price increases and how it affected or maybe distorted volume shipments into individual quarters.
And then secondly probably the cold weather pushing some lag into the new construction market pushing some lag into the timing of the construction season.
Hopefully we'll have a very good report in the second quarter where we're kind of able to show the volume growth so that this looks like the aberration which we believe it is.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly on price in Roofing.
If we just simplify kind of the analysis now that you're past the discounting period and you ignore the price increase that's announced for April how would current pricing compare to pricing at this point last year? Well I'm trying to think of what I could talk about that might help you with that question.
We don't typically talk about specific price levels.
We just tend to talk about price levels sequentially.
I would say certainly pricing in the first quarter was likely higher than it was in the first quarter last year just because of the discounting.
The level of price increase that we have in place for April 1 is pretty similar to the level of price increase we achieved last year on April 1.
The big difference in the second quarter was last year we had both the benefit of a price increase and eliminating bigger discounts.
This year we'll have the benefit of a price increase and eliminating smaller discounts both of which will then be offset by some amount of inflation.
So the sequential margins which have kind of almost always been very good from Q1 to Q2 and have almost always if you look at the last 4 years have been pretty stable through Q2 and Q3 we feel good that we'll see sequential margin expansion from the first to the second just based on a little bit better pricing and that -- unless we see something unusual that we should be able to sustain that at least through the third depending on how volumes play out for the year which is why we think the full year we'll be able to comp positively on margins versus last year.
LLC</strong> So just to clarify that if you held price today and you didn't get anymore price for the rest of the year would annual pricing in '13 be higher than annual pricing in '12? I imagine it would be.
I would tell you I don't have something in front of me that would allow me to kind of add that number up exactly.
Typically as I said we don't typically talk about absolute price levels.
But I'm thinking more input cost and margin rates.
So input costs I would say are relatively flat versus last year and since our margin rates are higher that would kind of imply higher overall average prices for full year.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Denis for any closing remarks.
Well I'm going to step in here and make a few closing remark.
First of all as always we thank you for your interest in our company and for your active participation on the call.
Obviously this was a call we have been looking forward to as we saw the way the quarter was playing out.
I think we laid out a good agenda on the fourth quarter call and gave pretty clear visibility externally.
One of the key execution metrics that we're going to measure ourselves against and one of the things I emphasized as we came off the fourth quarter call was it was really important to us that we get off to a fast start in 2013 and I think we have.
The big highlights for the quarter obviously are the Roofing margins Insulation pricing and then getting the Composites ramp-up done so that we can start talking about positive developments in Composites as it relates to cost structure as it relates to volumes and then hopefully as it relates to pricing later this year.
So we feel like we're starting to see the cumulative impact of improving construction markets in North America really put some firepower into our Building Materials businesses.
We think they're going to fuel the earnings growth for 2013.
We also feel though we're making the kind of progress in Composites that is going to become a contributor for the business in 2014 and beyond.
So we like the agenda.
We like the execution.
We're happy with the way our markets are developing and we're looking forward to producing a great year.
Thanks everyone.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you taking the time to join us for today's conference call in review of our business results for the second quarter of 2013.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Earlier this morning we issued a press release and filed a Form 10-Q that detailed our financial results for the second quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the quarter.
We will refer to these slides during the call.
You can access the earnings press release Form 10-Q and slides on our website owenscorning.com and we have a link on the Investor section of our website.
The transcript and recording of this call and the supporting slides will be available on owenscorning.com for future reference.
Please review Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation and remarks include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements.
Additional information about the risks uncertainties and factors that could cause these material differences can be found in today's press release as well as in our 2012 Form 10-K and second quarter 2013 Form 10-Q.
This presentation and today's remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release on www.owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period to period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the second quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 26.5% the midpoint of our anticipated annual effective tax rate range on adjusted earnings for 2013.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will now move to Slide 4.
And now our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman will make some opening remarks followed by remarks from our CFO Michael McMurray.
Mike Thaman will then provide some closing comments prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our second quarter results.
Owens Corning completed a successful second quarter and first half.
Our results reflect positive execution and provide the momentum for strong second half and full-year improvement over 2012.
We are pleased with our progress in all 3 businesses in the quarter and the first half of 2013.
We saw strong margin performance in our Roofing business price increases and operating leverage in Insulation and improved performance in Composites.
We are positioned for strong second half EBIT growth and achieving our full-year 2013 guidance.
We delivered $124 million in adjusted EBIT up $7 million from the second quarter of last year driven by improved Roofing margins and profitability in Insulation.
Consolidated revenue for the second quarter was $1.35 billion compared to $1.39 billion in the same period of 2012 and adjusted earnings were $69 million an increase of $2 million from the same period last year.
At the start of 2013 we discussed a number of expectations for improved performance across our business.
Let me review them now starting with safety.
As is the case each quarter we said that we would continue to make progress towards our goal of creating an injury-free workplace at Owens Corning.
We had a 16% improvement over the comparable period last year and regained momentum in this important performance area.
We remain focused on an injury-free workplace and are committed to achieving a 12th consecutive year of safety improvement in 2013.
In Roofing we said that we would improve margins and see better pricing.
For the quarter we've made progress on this goal with EBIT margins of 23%.
We benefited from price increases strong operating performance and sales of our Duration product line.
Second quarter volumes declined significantly across the roofing market.
Michael will talk further about our outlook for the second half demand but we believe that this is a constructive development for our second half outlook.
In the Insulation business we said the continued improvement in the U.S.
housing market would translate to a return to profitability for the business in 2013.
Insulation delivered a profitable second quarter for the first time since 2008 and completed the eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year EBIT improvement.
The Owens Corning Insulation business is gaining significant momentum in volume and pricing.
In addition our first half operating leverage was in line with our expectations.
In Composites we expected to improve financial performance as the year progressed by demonstrating operating leverage in a stable price environment.
During the second quarter the plants operated at a level consistent with demand and prices were stable.
Pricing actions in key geographies are now in effect.
Composites had sequential EBIT improvement of $23 million in the quarter and the business is positioned to deliver a strong second half versus 2012.
In addition Owens Corning had a number of strategic achievements in the quarter that I'd like to note.
We acquired Thermafiber a mineral wool insulation manufacturer that expands our product portfolio provides broader access to commercial and industrial applications and increases our ability to benefit from the recovery in the U.S.
construction markets.
We announced $130 million investment in North America to expand our global non-wovens business.
This investment will support further growth opportunities in the North American construction market.
This facility will complement our existing non-wovens facilities in North America and Europe.
In Composites we partnered with 2 Chinese-based manufacturers Taishan and Jinniu.
These arrangements will enable the business to leverage our commercial strengths while reducing capital investment and eliminating high-delivered cost assets.
Finally we published our 2012 sustainability report.
We announced that we had achieved all 7 of our 10-year goals for footprint production.
We are very proud of our reputation and execution in the area of sustainability.
Now I'd like to take a moment to discuss the outlook for the year in each of our businesses beginning with Roofing.
In Roofing we expect to achieve improved full-year margins versus 2012.
We continue to expect the full year market shipment to be flat versus last year.
Based on first half shipments we expect higher volumes in the second half versus 2012 a demand distribution more consistent with our historical pattern.
The U.S.
housing market outlook continues to support improvements in new residential construction and modest growth in reroof.
Without significant fall storm activity we would expect storm-related buy-ins for 2013 to compare unfavorably with last year but consistent with our overall market estimates.
Insulation should have a stronger second half volume driven by continued growth in residential new construction and seasonality with higher capacity utilization and improved pricing.
We expect continued price recovery to support our outlook for full year profitability in 2013.
We also have positive expectations for the June price increase however prices still remain significantly below historical levels.
The Composites business is positioned to deliver second half improvements supported by pricing actions in key geographies.
While global growth will continue to drive some improvement in the Composites business in the second half the market growth rate will be below long-term trend due to uneven industrial production growth globally.
We continue to expect all 3 businesses to improve versus 2012.
For Owens Corning the strength of an improving housing market in the U.S.
and modest global growth will drive overall improvement of at least $100 million in EBIT and we expect that the rate of U.S.
housing recovery in the second half and its impact in ongoing margin performance in our Building Materials businesses will largely determine the upside to our guidance.
We are pleased with the progress that we've made in the first half of the year.
As you can tell from my comments we're entering the second half confident that both our operational execution and market outlook support improved performance in all of our businesses.
Further the competitive position of our businesses and the market drivers that underpin our second half optimism are expected to carry into 2014 and beyond.
With Insulation returning to profitability we believe that we are poised to demonstrate the full performance potential of our portfolio.
With that I now turn it over to Michael who will further review details of our business and corporate performance.
I'll then return to recap and open it up for questions.
Michael? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier we are pleased with our execution in the first half of the year and we're positioned to deliver strong EBIT growth in the second half.
In our Roofing business we grew first half EBIT margins 4 points through improved pricing and strong manufacturing performance.
In our Insulation business we achieved our first profitable second quarter since 2008 with higher prices and improved volumes.
This marks our eighth consecutive quarter of improved EBIT performance for this business.
And our Composites business achieved a significant sequential EBIT growth in the second quarter and is positioned to deliver improved second half performance.
Now let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's press release and the Form 10-Q.
We reported second quarter 2013's consolidated net sales of $1.3 billion down 3% compared to the same period in 2012.
In our Roofing business net sales were down 16% on lower sales volumes partially offset by improved pricing.
Net sales in our Insulation business were up 22% on stronger volumes and higher selling prices.
Lastly net sales in our Composites business were down 5% due primarily to unfavorable mix slightly lower sales volume and the impact of foreign exchange translation.
In a moment I'll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-to-period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the second quarter of 2013 was $124 million compared to $117 million in the same period 1 year ago.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 2013 were $69 million or $0.57 per diluted share compared to $67 million or $0.55 per diluted share in 2012.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $79 million including $1 million of accelerated depreciation related to our asset repositioning in Europe.
Depreciation and amortization was $12 million lower than the second quarter of 2012 which included $17 million of accelerated depreciation related to our asset restructuring in Europe.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $80 million.
Next when we reconcile our second quarter adjusted EBIT of $124 million to our reported EBIT of $118 million.
We have adjusted out $3 million of net losses related to the flood that occurred in October 2012 at our New Jersey roofing facility as a result of Hurricane Sandy.
The net loss includes the impact of a $15 million insurance advance received during the quarter.
As we noted on recent calls the incident is insured and we believe that the overall financial impact will be minimal.
However the timing of any recoveries may result in expenses being taken in periods before insurance receipts are recorded or received which is why we're adjusting the impact of this event out of our results.
My thanks to a great job in this project by our team.
We restarted productions late in the second quarter and expect the plants to be back at full operating capacity later this month.
In addition we've adjusted out $3 million related to our 2012 Composites restructuring actions.
Now please turn to Slide 6 and I'll provide a high-level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing the second quarter of 2013 with the same period 1 year ago.
Adjusted EBIT improved $7 million.
The $20 million improvement in our Insulation business was partially offset by declines in our Roofing EBIT of $7 million and our Composites EBIT of $2 million.
General corporate expenses were $4 million higher versus the prior year primarily due to higher variable compensation expense.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 7 where we provide a more detailed review of our businesses starting with Building Materials.
For the second quarter Building Materials' net sales were $923 million a 2% decrease compared to the prior year.
Building Materials delivered $120 million in EBIT up from $107 million for the same period in 2012.
Slide 8 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were $508 million a 16% decrease compared with the same period a year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was $116 million down $7 million compared to the same period in 2012.
In the second quarter we estimate that manufacturer shipments were down over 25% and for the first half were down over 10%.
Our customers and our markets operate regionally and there can be significant variations in demand region-to-region.
While manufacturer shipments were down significantly in the first half we believe out-the-door sales for our customers were down in the mid-single digits for the total market.
We view this gap between manufacturer shipments and out-the-door sales as a healthy development.
This will drive a more balanced demand pattern in 2012 than we saw in -- excuse me in 2013 than we saw in 2012 when over 60% of our volume had been shipped by the end of the second quarter.
Our shipments in the second quarter were down just over 15% as we benefited from channel diversity within the quarter.
Channel mix had a negative impact in the first quarter.
On a year-to-date basis our overall market share has remained stable.
The outlook for U.S.
housing supports improvement in the new residential construction market and modest growth in reroof demand which together will likely offset a potential negative comparison from storm demand.
Based on our full year outlook for an overall flat roofing shingle market we expect stronger year-over-year volumes in the second half.
We have continued to demonstrate improved pricing and strong manufacturing performance through the first half of the year.
EBIT margins improved to 23% during the quarter and are 21% year-to-date a 4-point improvement over the first half of 2012.
Based on our outlook of relatively flat volumes compared to last year and our margin performance year-to-date we maintain our expectation of improved performance in our Roofing business for 2013.
Now Slide 9 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
Net sales for the quarter in Insulation of $450 million were up 22% over the same period last year.
The business delivered its first profitable second quarter since 2008 with $4 million in EBIT compared to a loss of $16 million in 2012.
The last time we were breakeven was in 2008 at just over 1 million lag starts on generally higher prices.
Over the last 12 months our Insulation business has returned to breakeven levels on about 800 000 lag U.S.
housing starts.
Our team has done a great job of lowering our breakeven point resulting from strong cost execution and manufacturing performance.
U.S.
construction insulation volumes are healthy and continue to track with growth trends and new residential starts.
About 80% of the revenue growth in the second quarter was driven by stronger sales volumes.
In addition the business continued to demonstrate strong price realization in the quarter.
As the U.S.
housing market continues to recover we expect to see further sales growth with improved pricing as industry capacity utilization tightens.
For the pricing actions we have taken and the improved manufacturing performance we have demonstrated year-over-year we remain confident in our guidance of double-digit revenue growth and return to profitability for full year 2013.
Now I ask you to turn your attention to Slide 10 for a review of our Composites business.
Net sales in our Composites business for the quarter were $472 million a 5% decrease compared to the same period in 2012.
The decline in revenue was driven equally by unfavorable mix slightly lower sales volumes and the impact of foreign exchange translation.
While overall volumes are relatively flat year-to-date we still expect to see modest year-on-year glass reinforcements growth for 2013.
EBIT for the quarter was $32 million compared to $34 million in the same period last year.
EBIT margins for the quarter were 7%.
During the second quarter production levels were aligned with demand and volumes were relatively flat compared to last year.
We also saw pricing stabilize during the quarter and have announced price actions for non-contracted volumes in key geographies.
As we look to the full year we continue to expect that the benefits of utilization of our low-cost asset base third quarter pricing actions and modest growth in global reinforcements demand will result in improved margin in 2013 compared to 2012.
With a sequential improvement in the second quarter we are well-positioned to deliver second half improvement versus last year.
With that review of our of second quarter performance I now ask you to turn to Slide 11 where we review other financial guidance for 2013.
We continue to expect capital spending to be about $380 million.
Reported capital spending will include the rebuild of our New Jersey roofing facility.
As a result normalized capital spending is expected to be roughly in line with depreciation and amortization of about $315 million.
We continue to expect corporate expenses to be about $120 million.
Our $2.2 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
In 2013 we expect our effective tax rate on adjusted pretax earnings to be 25% to 28% and our cash tax rate to be 10% to 12%.
We have used the midpoint of our effective tax rate guidance as the pro forma rate to calculate our adjusted EPS as disclosed in Table 3 of our earnings release.
10 million shares remain available for repurchase under the company's stock repurchase program as of June 30.
As we balance our priorities for the deployment of free cash flow stock repurchases will continue to be an important mechanism to return capital to shareholders.
While we did not have any share repurchase activity in the first half we have purchased some shares early in the third quarter given our outlook for improved financial performance and our expectation of strong second half free cash flow generation.
Again we are pleased with our first half results.
This performance and our outlook reaffirms our confidence in improving full year margins in all 3 of our businesses and delivering improved EBIT of at least $100 million with potential upside determined by the pace of the U.S.
housing recovery and its impact on Building Materials margins.
Thank you and I'll now hand the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I noted at the outset of today's call Owens Corning's success in the second quarter was a result of continued execution in all 3 of our businesses which positions the company for strong second half EBIT growth.
We are pleased with the expanded Roofing margins in the first half improved pricing and volume in Insulation and a positive outlook for the second half financial performance in Composites.
We have demonstrated our commitment to continually grow our market-leading businesses through the acquisition of Thermafiber the announcement of a new non-wovens facility in the U.S.
and our strategic partnerships in Composites.
We are well-positioned to deliver strong second half performance.
I would now like to turn the call over to Thierry who will lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Amy we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Garik Shmois at Longbow.
The first question is just on Roofing.
I think in the Q you indicated you had $15 million in cost benefits in the second quarter.
Just wondering if you could talk about the trend on the cost side as you look to the second half of the year.
Yes sure.
Garik this is Mike.
Obviously when we talked about the second quarter Roofing performance we cited good price performance in the second quarter as having a nice impact on operating margins but in addition we talked about very good operating performance and also the sales of our Duration product line.
And there really is a pretty good mix of drivers that have helped us with our margin performance in the quarter than in the first half.
So we've had good performance from our Roofing operations.
Roofing's a little bit different than our Insulation or Composites businesses it's not nearly as utilization-driven it's a material conversion business so very tight control of materials effective sourcing of materials high-quality levels in our manufacturing operations can have a meaningful contribution to our performance.
And I think you saw that in the Q where we did say that operating performance contributed nicely on the cost-reduction side to help us with our margins.
Okay.
Do you think that trend is -- on the cost side sustainable into the second half? Yes I mean we'll see some variability in raw material costs.
Right now obviously oil prices have been elevated a bit for the last 30 days and that could start to come through in a little bit more dramatic asphalt cost inflation and I think our experience has been that that can be a catalyst for price recovery in the market.
So if we were to see more inflation on the material side potentially that would require pricing actions or some actions to offset that.
But for the most part if we're sourcing our materials well we're manufacturing well I would expect that we would continue to have very good performance in the second half.
Okay.
And then I guess switching to Composites previously I think you had indicated somewhere around $20 million to $30 million of EBIT growth is possible in Composites depending on how much pricing you were able to achieve this year.
You talked that you have some pricing in place middle of the year.
It looks like maybe inflation was coming in below trend correct me if I'm wrong there.
Just wondering where you are here middle of the year in Composites relative to that prior forecast you had put out there.
Yes I think our outlook for Composites is still consistent with what we said in the first quarter.
So we had kind of come in to the year saying we had a lot of operating leverage coming from our asset restructuring and also coming from some demand growth and that was going to be offset by inflation.
I think inflation we've done a good job of managing inflation that's not just kind of overall market rates it maybe not been quite as high as we expected coming into the year but we've had a focused program on sourcing and managing the inflation of raw materials and we've made some progress there.
That really is productivity and cost performance on the operating side.
I think volumes maybe have been a touch weaker than we'd expected coming into the year.
In my comments I described the industrial production globally as a bit uneven.
So we've seen some portions of the market where we're meeting our expectations some that have been downgraded a bit but we are seeing overall growth.
But the simple driver of improvement in Composites this year is really operating leverage net of inflation and I think we're still on the range of where we were on the last call when we talked about that.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Steve Kim of Barclays.
I wanted to ask you a question about Composites if we could.
Can you give us a sense of what percent of your annual sales are done to customers who are not on an annual fixed contract and what do you think the outlook is for price opportunity for those sorts of channels.
Sure I mean it is a great question Steve.
And let me kind of step back a little bit and just frame how the market works and then I'll speak directly to your question.
Unlike our Building Materials businesses where we largely sell to distributors who buy and resell our product where when we move prices it moves prices in the marketplace in their end-use and they're able to recover that price increase.
A lot of our customers' business in Composites is done based on bidding products or actual fabrications into end-use markets.
And so generally that market has worked with our customers wanting to support them with annual pricing so that they could go out and they could quote business and they could stand behind the prices that they quoted.
So the nature of the business because it's an OEM and it's a processing market not a distribution market tends to dictate that our customers are looking for a little bit more price stability in the year and maybe looking more for an annual price discussion.
Now some of that is in fact contractual the way you would think about it as the contract and then some of that is just an annual pricing agreement that we reach with our customers.
We've said that probably more than 1/2 of the business is on either contracted prices or some type of annual price agreement where we don't feel much flexibility through the year to try to restate those prices outside of some major change in the dynamic of the market and then less than 50% of the market would be what we call non-contracted volumes.
So when we are putting mid-year price increases into the market that vary by geography and product line on the portion of our business that's non-contracted the materiality to the outlook of the performance in the second half may not be that large but the materiality to our outlook over the 2014 2015 time frame is very very important.
Because obviously if it's a non-contracted business where we start to pick up some positive momentum on pricing that starts to frame the annual price negotiations and the annual price contracts with our other customers who are annual arrangements or even with multi-year arrangements into a more positive pricing dynamic.
We put some materials out on our investor website that we presented at an Investor Day in Amarillo which is one of our Composites plants in Texas.
And in that chart we made public a fair amount of our competitive analysis that shows there's really been a dearth of capital investment coming into this market since the financial crisis in 2009.
Returns on capital had been low and not just Owens Corning but really our competition has responded by not bringing new capacity to the market at the rate of demand growth.
So we see utilizations tightening.
We think going into 2014 it's going to be a better utilization environment and therefore a more positive price environment.
And then as we look past 2014 you actually start to see some genuinely difficult market conditions in '15 and '16 in terms of availability of composites.
So this pendulum is shifting.
We've been in a flat to negative nominal price environment now for really the part of a decade.
Our goal is to start to reverse that trend get ourselves at least into positive nominal pricing and then at some point here get to positive real price and actually have margin-accretive pricing.
Research Division</strong> Yes and certainly the Chinese downtime that's going to be coming is going to be a tailwind as well you would think longer term My next question relates to Insulation.
The incremental margins this quarter were a little light they were strong obviously for the first half.
But I was wondering whether there were any one-time items that we can sort of peel out that would have increased the incremental margins more up to the sort of the 40% 50% type range that we have been getting used to.
And also if you could just remind me what kind of pricing increase is baked into your outlook for incremental margins in Insulation? Okay.
I think you're right that we've guided that over a 3-year period of time we expected about 50% operating leverage in the Insulation business and we gave the guidance I think in the late '10 or early '11 so we're kind of talking about the time period '11 '12 '13.
So we're kind of weighed into that period and generally through '11 and '12 we were pretty much spot-on or a little bit better than that guidance and actually through the first half of this year our Insulation business has grown by a little over $70 million and we've grown EBIT by about $33 million.
So in fact through the first half we're pretty much on track with that guidance.
So we didn't see anything in the quarter that was worrisome or a surprise to us in terms of the progression of operating leverage.
We've said I think again and again on this call and we try to say when operating leverage is fabulous like it was in the first quarter I mean effectively in the first quarter we had EBIT growth on 0 revenue growth and didn't really crow about that because we said there's a lot of timing issues in this and we should accumulate it over time.
So I'd look at the first half and the operating leverage in the first half and say that was pretty much in line with our expectations.
I'd probably say the one area where I think we could see some pick up in the second half that would probably help our business is we commented in the first quarter that Canada was a bit weak and mostly cited weather that's an important market to us.
In the second quarter we had a lot of flooding in Alberta we had a strike in Québec so some of the rebound we expected to see in Canada we didn't see.
Again we think that's timing.
So we think anything that didn't get done in the first quarter because of weather and didn't get done in the second quarter because of the strike in Québec or the flooding in Alberta we would see in the second half and that probably will help our profitability a little bit.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And the pricing assumptions? Oh I'm sorry about that.
We announced about a 10% price increase for June 1 and in our prepared comments we said that we felt like our realization of that price increase was good and that that should continue through the second half of the year.
So we are in our outlook expecting that we will operate at higher price levels in the second half of the year than we did in the first half.
Our next question comes from Ken Zener at KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up on the question on price really quick specific to Insulation.
In the Q you've talked about roughly $35 million in price in Insulation this year.
How much of that kind of dropped to the bottom line? Do you view that as a 100% versus the incremental volume which is maybe coming through at a 30% incremental? Yes in our Q we do break out pricing.
That price would be across all markets.
So generally when we're on the call when we're talking about the real driver of profitability in the Insulation business we're very focused on the U.S.
residential new construction market which is the market that suffered the most from 2006 to 2012 as we've gone through this big downturn and it's really the place where we're most focused on trying to rehabilitate pricing and recover to get back to historical levels.
The $35 million would be across all segments of the market and in some cases some of the industrial and commercial markets we've had some inflation on some input materials et cetera so all of that wouldn't get to the bottom.
Some of it is to cover input costs and other market dynamics.
But some of that obviously is margin accretive particularly the U.S.
residential side where prices have been well under water.
We need to get a fair amount of margin-accretive pricing to get anywhere near historical price levels and certainly to get anywhere near peak levels than we saw in '05 or '06.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving over to Roofing which all is colorful industry.
It sounded like the -- if you're using ARMA data down 25% you're 16% so there's differences but there's a big difference between the sell in and the sell out.
Can you highlight what that means for the inventory at distributors in your opinion a and b I want to revisit the question I asked you last quarter where I thought COG changes actually drive pricing more than anything else.
And while last quarter I view that as potentially a neutral element to price is there a risk -- I mean this is a negative considering how strong your margins were but is there a risk of price deflation in the second half if asphalt doesn't move up relative to the run rate? Sure.
Let me talk about the sell in versus the sell-through kind of as you characterized it.
Michael in his comments said that last year we shipped more than 60% of our shingles in the first half of the year.
We went back and looked at about 15 years worth of data and a pretty good average for Owens Corning has been about 55% first half 45% second half.
So we were well well ahead of historical trends last year and knew -- I shouldn't say knew suspected at some point in the first half of this year where we comp negatively with last year unless that was kind of the new normal.
We're actually I think pretty pleased to see at least for the time being if not the new normal that inventory levels in the channels today we would expect are quite a bit more in control than they were this time last year.
Now that's I think attributable to a couple of things.
One was last year the roofing market got off to a very fast start.
So we had a very early spring we had lots of early season storm activity business was vibrant in a lot of the country and I think there was an optimism in the April May timeframe that was not met with demand pull in the June July timeframe.
So a lot of our distribution and retail customers had to pull back pretty quickly on what had become elevated expectations for the year.
I think this year's a little bit the opposite.
We had a little bit of a late spring.
We didn't have huge spring storms.
We had some but we did not have the level of storm activity.
So most of distribution have kind of grown into the year and seen their business building through the year which is good.
I mean their sell-throughs are relatively stable and that their inventories are in good control which would suggest that their re-order rate for us in the third quarter should hold up better than it held up last year.
We see that's a positive to pricing.
One of the things that causes price deflation is if you go through prolonged periods of very weak demand.
That's a time where manufacturers might get a little bit more anxious that they misgauged the market get more aggressive in discounting to try to move some of their inventories.
I think as long as our customers are seeing decent reorders and as long as our customers are buying in a fairly stable pattern it's pretty easy for the manufacturer to remain patient to realize that demand.
And you have to remember price deflation is not good for our customers.
For the most part if we were to see a second half decline in prices that's devaluing any inventories that they do have.
So generally I think the market dynamics support an outlook which would say stable pricing.
Margins are what's good for us as a manufacturer what's good for our customers.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood at Macquarie.
You spoke about the Composites and Insulation price realization.
Can you comment a bit on Roofing given the fact there were 2 price announcements out there there's confusion in the market as to whether one of your competitors was discounting.
And then also on that effect whether or not there was any timing issues as to whether or not that would be fully realized when you reported results this quarter.
I believe you had a 4% price increase in the quarter in Roofing.
Well I mean specific to price realization we don't really like to comment on specific price increases or specific price realization on what's been announced in the market.
Obviously at the time of the first quarter call which was in late April we expressed a fair amount of optimism about the effectiveness of the April price increase and our expectation it would have a positive impact on margins in the second quarter and then carrying into the second half of the year.
I think if you look at the margin rate in the second quarter we clearly were able to achieve enough pricing even with some of the I think well-documented discounting that took place in the market that we were able to produce 23% margins for the second quarter and 21% margins for the first half.
So despite some noise around the individual price increases I think our overall message would be that the market environment we're in today and the price levels we're currently selling at support really an outstanding outlook for our Roofing business.
Okay but does that price increase that was disclosed in the Q fully reflect the price increase that was in the market or is there some kind of timing issue that we wouldn't see it fully in results until third quarter? I don't -- if you're looking for kind of was there a delay to the price increases or something that we're going to hit another point of catalyst where suddenly prices will come up and margins will further widen out I don't think the guidance we're giving you today was built off of that point of view.
I do remind you though that a lot of things can happen in the Roofing business that can be catalyst for price and obviously one is inflation.
So we're watching oil prices very very carefully.
And certainly there's enough price announced in the market that if we were to see a lot more inflation on the asphalt side that the ability and the focus on achieving some gains of those price increases to offset our inflation I think would be felt not just by Owens Corning it will be felt industry-wide.
We think generally asphalt cost inflation is an area where that cuts across the marketplace and is well understood by our customers.
I think the second potential catalyst is we haven't had a fall storm event for now 4 or 5 years and historically the big run-up in volumes in the roofing market was when we saw hurricanes.
And we've kind of been out of the hurricane business now for 4 or 5 years.
If we did see a tight demand environment in the second half because we had a storm event obviously that's going to support stronger pricing as people are paying up in order to try to get volumes to meet the rebuilding efforts.
Okay.
And finally could you just comment on the Insulation pre-buy and how demand trends may have shaped up post the June price increase that you referred to? Yes there was some pre-buy in the second quarter.
So I think our revenue numbers in the second quarter were influenced a bit by in particular the U.S.
new construction market wanting to get inventories in at lower prices.
Obviously that's a very very positive sign for us.
It means that the price increase is well understood and it's going to stick in the marketplace.
People want to get low-cost inventories in.
I would reiterate though at the end of the first quarter when our revenue number was basically flat we did say that we thought not just on a year-to-go basis but a full-year basis we thought Insulation would grow at double-digit levels.
So if you're flat in the first quarter you leave 3 quarters to get the double-digit you're going to have to put some quarters in at very strong growth rates.
We saw that in the second.
We would expect to see continued strong growth in the third and the fourth.
The seasonality of the business and the underlying economics in new construction or the underlying dynamics in new construction support good top line growth for insulation.
Our next question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to the question on incremental margin in Insulation and not try to be pedantic about it Mike but would you have been at your target range on operating leverage incremental margin of 4% to 6% in the quarter if not for the one-off factors that you cited? And is there a way to I think Stephen asked the question earlier is there a way to parse out what the aggregate amount of those factors was in the quarter and would your outlook expect incremental margin in that range in the second half of the year.
Obviously you've got more volume and momentum than you did in the first quarter and you're getting more pricing so that would suggest that you should be able to your target ranges no? Yes.
And so I think there's a couple of mix things that I would point to.
And when you say can you parse it out we don't provide enough disclosure nor do we think it would be constructive to provide disclosure kind of at the individual market segment level.
But if you look at the second quarter we would have produced better leverage in the first half probably if Canada were a bit stronger and if there had been less pre-buy in the U.S.
residential construction market.
So U.S.
residential construction market I mean we've been pretty candid that that's been our lowest performance market segment that we've been losing a fair amount of money in that market.
So whenever you see a pre-buy in a market that's struggling with profitability it's going to be a headwind to operating leverage and if you lose some volume in a market that is making money then obviously it's going to hurt your operating leverage.
So if we could remix the quarter you'd probably want Canada a little bit stronger and you'd want a little bit of that residential new construction business in the third quarter not the second.
That said I think we wound the spring in Canada where we've got good volumes coming in the second half because of the delays and I think pre-buys are always a good sign in any market because it means the market is expecting higher prices.
So I wouldn't give it back.
I'm very happy to be looking ahead to strong demand in the second half in Canada and I'm very happy that our customers were able to bring us some inventories in the second quarter that they'll be able to margin out a bit and make some money.
From a guidance point of view I think we stand by our original guidance which was 3-year guidance that over a 3-year period of time we expected about 50% of operating leverage.
I'd punctuate the point Michael made and I think those of you who've been on the call for a while it was probably 4 or 5 years ago that we said the last time the Insulation business broke even was in 1 million housing starts and that we thought the next time we pass 1 million housing starts we'd make about $100 million.
A lot of our analysts I think correctly said well you're at 600 000 starts now so if I draw a straight line between $100 million of losses at 600 000 starts and $100 million of EBIT at 1 million starts you guys should breakeven around 800 000.
We never explicitly gave that guidance but we always nodded and said that's a reasonable conclusion.
Well here we are today if you look at LTM LTM EBIT for the Insulation business I think is about a $3 million loss.
I mean it's effectively breakeven and LTM housing starts are just a touch over 800 000.
So we're tracking along very nicely in terms of our understanding of the business.
We did that at the end of the second quarter.
So if you look at the LTM we're using here it's the second half of last year which is our seasonally stronger period and then the first half of this year which is seasonally weaker.
So we're now kind of an LTM basis breakeven looking ahead to the strongest part of the year for us in 2013.
And then looking ahead to 2014 another year of good growth in Insulation.
So we feel like we are right on track in our Insulation agenda.
We're really pleased to have seen now 2 price increases that were effectively executed in the market one late last year the second one in June by our team with our customers.
And we think that we're now moving back down the path where improved housing starts better pricing and with the story we have around building codes more Insulation per home in order to meet the new energy efficiency standards that this business is going to get back to very very high levels of performance well before we need to see anything like the housing starts we had in '05 or '06.
So it's a big moment I would say in the company's progression to be sitting here today talking about Insulation making money in the second quarter.
Insulation breaking even at an LTM basis.
We now have 3 great businesses we can talk about in terms of earnings growth and 3 great businesses we could talk about in terms of our earnings power.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I appreciate the thoughts there.
I had one more question on Roofing.
Given all the dialogue on pricing over the last couple of years I guess that's the norm to some degree with Roofing.
Do you think we're hitting a relative ceiling on real roofing prices given the fact that you have such strong operating margins? I realize if asphalt cost go up or input cost go up in general that you have to recover that but barring any change in the cost to manufacturing should we be expecting real roofing price to be more or less now status quo on a going-forward basis.
I mean I don't know that the absolute level of roofing price is something that would be a big driver in the market from our perspective.
If I look at an average roofing job let me just kind of estimate some numbers.
If you take an average American home maybe 2 500 or 3 000 square feet it might have something around 20 or 25 squares of roofing material on the roof and it might cost $8 000 to $10 000 to reroof that home.
At the distribution level we'd sell those 25 squares of material for somewhere in the $1 500 range.
And so if you think about it from a homeowner's perspective I've got an $8 000 to $10 000 reroof job and at the first buyer I'm buying $1 500 worth of roofing material.
If we're making 20% margins on that $1 500 worth of Roofing material we're making $300 and we're going to be around for 20 25 30 years standing behind our warranty keeping moisture out of the person's attic beautifying their home and increasing the value of their home.
That doesn't strike me as an outrageous ask and it certainly doesn't strike me from a value point of view that if we need to cover asphalt costs or for some reason that 25 squares of roofing material is going to need to cost $1 600 or $1 650 and the value of the reroof job goes up to $8 150 or it goes up to $8 200 that somehow we've changed the dynamics of the market.
So there aren't strong alternative materials.
You get into metal and other much more expensive materials than an asphalt shingle we make a very very high quality product that improves the aesthetics of your home we offer a very good warranty and it's a great value.
If anything you go back to some of the historical times when we're operating at single-digit margins and you kind of scratch your head and say why were we willing to sell $1 200 worth of material on that job and make $70 in what was probably a $7 500 reroof job at the time.
So from a value proposition point of view the value proposition certainly supports the roofing manufacturer making money.
Now it's a competitive market so obviously we have to compete every single day.
We have to make great products.
We have to offer our contractors a value proposition that they can go and sell in the home.
We have to offer our distributors end-use demand that they can sell through that's where our margin comes from is our ability to do those things effectively.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall at RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to see do you expect Composites sales to comp positive in the second half based on your guidance? And what's the anticipated impact on revenues and margins of the strategic partnerships that you've announced in China? The answer your first question in Michael's prepared comments he said volumes were about flat through the first half and that we did expect volumes to be up for the full year.
So I think it's a reasonable conclusion to kind of back out the second half and say we'll comp positively in the second half.
Part of that is kind of stable demand where we're sitting right now and then the other part of that is Europe slowed down in the second half of last year the U.S.
wind market slowed down in the second half of last year because of the PTC.
So the comps last year are kind of against 2 of our big markets going through a bit of a slow down last year and we're hoping that we won't see that again this year.
So we would expect to see some volume pickup in the second half although I don't think it's a dramatic driver.
And then the second half of your question Bob? LLC Research Division</strong> You're doing a lot in terms of announcements with strategic partnerships in China and I just wanted to understand what the potential impact on Composites is for both revenues and margins.
Yes I think in terms of materiality of the impact on the business both those partnerships are a bit on the margin.
We'll get a little bit of capacity that will give us some growth over the next couple of years.
We'll get a little lower cost position on a very important product line for us and avoid a significant capital investment that we would have needed to put it in order to support that product line.
So we're really working a little bit of top line a little bit of margin a little bit of balance sheet in each of those deals.
But I think they -- I think they say a couple of things.
One is a continuation and an evolution of our strategy which is made significant investments in the 2009 to 2012 timeframe kind of repositioning our asset base taking out some high-cost assets building some low-cost assets and getting the asset base we wanted.
We also said that we were going to pull back our investments until we saw a little bit better margins and a little bit better return on capital from the business.
So I give the team a lot of credit I think they're finding creative ways to continue to expand the footprint and impact of our business without needing additional capital and in fact actually offsetting capital in some cases creating cost reduction.
I think the second thing it points to though is a lot of the themes we've been talking about in China are coming to bear which is if you go back 5 or 6 years ago what we just saw was aggressive across-the-board investment by our Chinese competitors.
We're now seeing openness for partnership need to find technology partners who can help them get lower cost the inflation the currency translation rate the demand for higher-quality products a more specified environment is putting pressure on some of our Chinese competitors as is the credit market in China.
And they're looking for more creative solutions and reaching out to people like Owens Corning.
That allows us to be selective.
It allows us to find the right partners for the right types of situations.
And we think it's a constructive step forward to see that we can actually do business with our Chinese competitors in a way that we can give them some technology and some licensing and provide us some tooling and some low-cost product that we can then extend our commercial agreement.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one quick follow-up on Roofing.
Good margin movement in the first half of the year compared with 2012.
Just wanted to get your view on where do you think long-term normalized EBIT margins are in the Roofing business based on your current thinking for that? Well Bob our official guidance on that has been mid-teens or better and I think given the volatility we've seen in margins that's probably good safe guidance and guidance I would stick to.
If you look at Slide 8 of our investor presentation I continue to look at that slide when I talk to the team and you kind of see 2010 2011 right around 20% you see a dip in 2012 and then you see LTM margins kind of right back around that 20% levels.
So I tend to feel really good about the business when we're kind of at these margin levels.
I know we're going to have some bumps in the road.
I see structural reasons why mid-teens are better it's probably the right way for us to guide the business but I think some people interpreted our mid-teens or better guidance to be a margin deflation outlook.
I think we guided to exactly what we believe which is you should expect that business to pretty consistently deliver mid-teens or better margins and where we are now with 21% margins year-to-date is in fact better than mid-teens.
Our last question comes from Dennis McGill at Zelman.
LLC</strong> On the Insulation segment the 2 drags that you've talked about have been in raw material inflation and mix.
Can you maybe dig into raw material inflation a little bit more and just talk to what pressure points are there and what the outlook is there for the second half of the year.
And then on the mix side given that new res domestically is going to be the growth engine for a while is there any opportunity to see that headwind abate or is that with you for a while? Well Dennis I just want to make sure that I -- the comments I made around inflation which I don't want to blow these out of proportion it was more in the context of the price number we offered for the Insulation business in our 10-Q cuts across all segments of the business.
And if you look at our pie chart it's 37% U.S.
new residential construction at the end of 2012.
We've always said probably 20% of that's Canada so it's maybe less than 1/3 U.S.
residential construction.
When we talk about the business on these calls since that's where the leverage is in terms of earnings that's where we tend to spend our time talking about pricing inflation.
If you look at international we're doing business in developing countries there where we would have labor cost inflation and exchange rate-driven inflation.
If you look at commercial and industrial we've got a fairly sizable extruded polystyrene foam business that sells a fair amount of product into that marketplace polystyrene tends to track oil.
So we've seen some polystyrene inflation now.
The pricing mechanism in that market looks a lot more like Roofing it's a materials conversion business.
So when we have polystyrene pricing you tend to get better pricing on board stock and as a result we manage 2 margins in that business.
So I would just caution when we look at Insulation's reportable segment there's a fair number of things that would be going on in both the price number which is inflation recovery and the cost number.
I think when we come back and look at the U.S.
residential new construction segment we said that we had good price realization at the end of the year on kind of a high single-digit price increase.
And then again on the June 1 price increase we said that we have a nice price realization on that price increase.
So we are starting to move prices specifically in that segment.
LLC</strong> So just to clarify if you just isolate the raw materials side of it or the inflationary side of it as you look to the second of a very year is that still a headwind in the overall segment? It hasn't actually been a headwind to date because most of the polystyrene inflation we've experienced we've recovered in price.
So from a margin point of view where we've had inflation we've been able to recover it with price.
I answered the previous question in the context of did all of that price fall to the bottom? Some of that price was recovery of inflation.
So I don't see it as a headwind in terms of how we look at the businesses or we manage price.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the mix side of it for the domestic new construction is that mix that becomes or remains a headwind for the foreseeable future? Well we're still -- we've said in the past that new construction Insulation prices are probably 30% 35% below their peak is kind of where we pegged them at the end of last year.
Even with our positive pricing actions they're probably still 25% below the peak or somewhere in that range.
So we have a lot of work to do to get pricing up and get back to an investment-grade business with good margins.
We'll soon kind of get to the point where we're no longer you losing money at the manufacturing level.
That's no goal for any business that I know of but it's certainly a first step in trying to improve the profitability of the business.
Once we get to making money at the manufacturing level then some of the mix issues start to go away a bit.
But we're in a position today where as some segments grow and some segments shrink a bit depending on their relative margin performance you're going to see big impacts on operating leverage.
Once we get all the segments of that business profitable then as each of them grow each of them will contribute to operating leverage.
That's -- we're pretty close to that.
I think when you see the overall business breakeven you can conclude that the losses have been significantly narrowed where we're losing money and that the business that are contributing are offsetting those losses but that the rising tide will eventually raise all those.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
Would you like to make any closing remarks? Thanks Amy very good.
Thank you everyone for joining us for today's call and with that I'll turn it back over to Mike Thaman for a few closing remarks.
Thank you Thierry.
First as always thank you for all the people on the call for your interest in our company.
Obviously we're working very hard on your behalf to try to create great businesses and deliver lots of shareholder value.
In that regard we think in the first half of the year and in the second quarter of the year we've made very good progress as a company in extending and executing our agenda of improving each of our businesses and really getting all parts of Owens Corning's business portfolio operating at high levels of performance at the same time.
Getting Insulation back to profitability on an LTM basis and a full-year 2013 basis is a big milestone for us; seeing positive progress sequentially in Composites from the first quarter to the second with a good outlook for the second half is a big milestone for us; and producing 21% EBIT margins in the first half of the year in Roofing with 23% EBIT margins in the second quarter obviously is a big milestone for us.
We're really happy with the people at Owens Corning who have been working very very hard in what have been some challenging market conditions in both Composites and Insulation.
I think we're now starting to see the fruits of our labor across all of our businesses and we're awfully proud of our team.
As you can tell from our -- my comments we're entering the second half of the year confident not just in our operational execution but also in our market outlook and we do believe that that outlook supports improved performance in all of our businesses.
And I think we want to emphasize the competitive positions of our businesses and the market drivers that underpin our second half optimism are not second-half specific that these are market drivers and competitive positions that underpin continued progress in 2014 and beyond.
So this is kind of a moment in time for our company where we're feeling like the fruits of our work are going to pay off and that we're getting closer to that moment in time where all 3 of our businesses can perform at very very high levels and we can deliver the kind of shareholder value that we know is built into this company.
So thank you for your interest.
We look forward to talking to you again in our October call.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Andrew and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you taking the time to join us for today's conference call to review our business results for the third quarter of 2013.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Earlier this morning we issued a press release and filed a Form 10-Q that detailed our financial results for the third quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the quarter.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the earnings press release Form 10-Q and slides on the Investors section of our website.
The transcript and recording of this call and supporting slides will be available on owenscorning.com for future reference.
Please review Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today's presentation and remarks includes forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements.
Additional information about the risks uncertainties and factors that could cause these material differences can be found in today's press release as well as in our 2012 Form 10-K and third quarter 2013 Form 10-Q.
This presentation and today's remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release on www.owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period to period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which has the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the third quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 30% and Michael will explain our updated guidance in his prepared remarks.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will now move to Slide 4.
And now our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman will make some opening remarks followed by remarks from our CFO Michael McMurray.
Mike Thaman will then provide some closing comments prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our third quarter results.
Owens Corning delivered improved year-on-year performance in each of our businesses generating positive momentum for the remainder of the year.
Our Roofing business sustained strong margin performance.
The Insulation business delivered its best quarter in 6 years and is profitable year-to-date.
And Composites improved EBIT by $10 million compared to last year.
The company delivered $119 million in adjusted EBIT an increase of $38 million from the third quarter of last year.
Consolidated revenue for the third quarter was $1.32 billion compared to $1.28 billion in the same period of 2012 and adjusted earnings were $63 million an increase of $23 million from the same period last year.
Based on our year-to-date performance we have maintained our outlook of at least $100 million of adjusted EBIT growth in 2013.
At the start of the year we discussed a number of expectations for improved performance across our businesses.
Let me review them now starting with safety.
As is the case each quarter we said that we would continue to make progress towards our goal of creating an injury-free workplace.
We've had a 6% improvement of recordable injuries year-to-date versus the comparable period last year.
We remain focused on an injury-free workplace and are committed to achieving a 12th consecutive year of safety improvement in 2013.
In Roofing we said that we would improve margins and see better pricing.
In the quarter we delivered 20% margins a 2-point increase year-over-year sustaining the margin improvement that we reported in the first half of the year.
In the Insulation business we said that continued improvement in the U.S.
housing market would translate to a return to profitability for the business in 2013.
In the third quarter EBIT was $18 million an improvement of $15 million year-over-year.
The Insulations business delivered its best quarter in 6 years and will achieve full year profit in 2013.
In Composites we expected to improve financial performance as the year progressed by demonstrating operating leverage in a stable price environment.
While Composites improved third quarter EBIT by $10 million compared with last year on a sequential basis EBIT was down $11 million.
I'll provide more details on Composite's performance later in my remarks.
I would also like to review a few other important items in the quarter.
First an agreement was reached with the local government and Hangzhou China to close and sell our facility in exchange for approximately $70 million.
This action is consistent with our strategy to reduce our capital intensity in China while continuing to meet the needs of this important market.
Second Owens Corning repurchased 1.4 million shares of its common stock for $54 million in the quarter.
As of September 30 8.6 million shares remained available for repurchase under the company's current authorization.
Finally for the 4th year in a row Owens Corning has earned placement in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in recognition of our sustainability performance.
This year Owens Corning was named the industry leader for the building products category.
Now I would like to further discuss the performance of our businesses as well as our outlook for the remainder of the year beginning with Roofing.
Roofing margins continued to be strong.
Revenues were flat compared with last year.
While industry shipments were up in the third quarter our volume performance in the quarter trailed the market giving back our outperformance of the first half.
On a year-to-date basis however our volumes have largely tracked the overall market.
In the quarter our volumes were particularly impacted by geographical variation in demand.
The coastal markets compared positively year-on-year where we tend to have market share below our national average.
Regions in the center of the country compared more negatively for the quarter where we tend to have market share above our national average.
For the full year we expect improved margins over 2012 on strong price realization despite the fact that energy shipments are expected to be down mid-single-digits.
In the Insulation businesses another quarter of financial progress has resulted in year-to-date profitability.
Operating leverage adjusted for the Thermafiber acquisition was approximately 40% for the quarter and is 45% year-to-date.
The business has delivered about $50 million in year-on-year price improvement.
This represents progress although prices still remain below historical levels.
The integration of our Thermafiber mineral wool business which we acquired late in the second quarter is going very well.
Our customers are taking advantage of our ability to provide product in specialized high-temperature construction applications.
The Insulation business will achieve full-year profitability for 2013.
Our expectations included continued growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved capacity utilization and higher prices.
In Composites benefits from our asset repositioning and favorable production rates were tempered in the third quarter by the cost of rebuilding our furnace in South Korea and manufacturing challenges.
Late in the quarter we saw marked improvement and increased efficiencies in our manufacturing network and believe that this will positively impact financial results as we close out the year.
Our earlier outlook for improvement in Composites was based on assumptions of lower production cost and stronger volumes.
We now expect flat-year EBIT to be -- full-year EBIT to be flat due to lower than anticipated IT growth lower than expected North American roofing demand and the impact of manufacturing challenges on our third quarter financial performance.
Year-to-date prices are flat compared to last year.
However sequentially prices have increased in each of the last 2 quarters.
For Owens Corning adjusted EBIT has improved by $79 million year-to-date and we are positioned to achieve at least $100 million of adjusted EBIT growth for the year.
With that I'll now turn it over to Michael who will review further details of our business and corporate performance.
I'll then return to recap and then open up for questions.
Michael? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier our year-to-date results support our outlook of at least $100 million of adjusted EBIT growth in 2013.
Before I discuss our quarterly results in more detail today we reported on an important transaction in our Composites business that was executed this quarter.
We reached an agreement to close and sell our composites glass reinforcement facility in Hangzhou China in exchange for proceeds of approximately $70 million from the local government.
The facility will be closed in late 2003 -- (sic) [2013] and the land will return to the Hangzhou authorities during the first half of 2014.
The closure will result in capacity reduction of about 40 000 tons for Owens Corning.
To replace this capacity we will leverage our previously announced supply lines with Jinniu.
This represents a creative and capital-efficient solution that enables us to maintain our market position in this growing region lowers our cost position and reduces our capital footprint.
We received $17 million in the third quarter and expect the remaining cash proceeds to be received over the next 2 to 3 quarters.
The sale will result in a gain of approximately $30 million to $40 million when the transaction closes in 2014 which we will adjust out of our results.
Now let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's press release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported third quarter 2013 consolidated net sales of $1.3 billion up 3% compared with the same period in 2012.
In our Roofing business net sales were flat compared with the same period in 2012 as slightly higher selling prices offset the impact of slightly weaker volumes in the quarter.
Net sales of our Insulation business were up 12% on stronger volumes higher selling prices and the acquisition of Thermafiber that closed in the second quarter.
Lastly net sales in our Composites business were down slightly due primarily to the impact of foreign exchange translation.
In a moment I'll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-to-period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the third quarter of 2013 was $119 million compared to $81 million in the same period 1 year ago.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter of 2013 were $63 million or $0.53 per diluted share compared to $40 million or $0.34 per diluted share in 2012.
We have used an effective tax rate of 30% on adjusted earnings results for the quarter.
I will discuss our updated tax guidance later in my prepared remarks.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter were $78 million including $2 million accelerated depreciation related to our asset repositioning in Europe.
Depreciation and amortization was $11 million lower than the third quarter of 2012 which included $14 million of accelerated depreciation related to our asset repositioning in Europe.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $74 million.
Next please turn to Slide 6 where we reconcile our third quarter adjusted EBIT of $119 million to reported EBIT of $106 million.
We've adjusted out $2 million of net losses related to the flood that occurred in October 2012 at our New Jersey roofing facility as a result of Hurricane Sandy.
The net loss included the impact of an $11 million insurance recovery received during the quarter.
As we noted on recent calls the facility is insured for property damage and business interruption losses and as a result we believe that the overall financial impact will be minimal.
However the timing of recoveries has resulted in expenses being taken in periods before the insurance proceeds are received which is why we are adjusting the impact of this event out of our results.
In the third quarter of 2013 we have reached full operating capacity at this facility.
We are pleased with the speed and the efficiency of our roofing team in bringing this plant back online.
In addition we've adjusted out $5 million of expenses related to our previously announced 2012 restructuring actions.
Finally we've adjusted out $6 million of severance costs associated with the closure of our composites facility in Hangzhou China that I discussed in my earlier remarks.
Now please turn to Slide 7 where we provide a high level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing the third quarter of 2013 with the same period 1 year ago.
Adjusted EBIT improved $38 million.
Each of our businesses improved EBIT performance versus last year.
Our Insulation business improved by $15 million our 9th consecutive quarter of year-over-year performance improvement.
Our Roofing business improved by $13 million on higher pricing and lower manufacturing costs.
And our Composites business improved by $10 million.
General corporate expenses were flat versus the prior year.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 8 where we provide a more detailed review of our business results starting with Building Materials.
For the third quarter Building Materials net sales were $902 million a 5% increase compared to the prior year.
Building Materials delivered $114 million in EBIT up $86 million for the same period in 2012.
Slide 9 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were $471 million flat compared with the same period a year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was $96 million up $13 million compared to the same period in 2012.
The business achieved 20% EBIT margin on flat year-over-year revenues.
Volume trailed the market in the quarter but have largely tracked the market on a year-to-date basis.
In the third quarter we estimate that industry shipments were up mid-teens year-over-year driven by strong volume growth in Western and Atlantic Coast states partially offset by volume weakness in the center of the country.
The roofing industry is a regional business and manufacturer share positions can vary significantly region by region.
In general Owens Corning has a stronger share position in the central regions of the U.S.
and weaker share positions out West and on the Atlantic coast.
Our national market share on a year-to-date basis is down slightly although we have maintained our share position when adjusting for geographic mix.
Year-to-date we estimate that the industry shipments are down mid-single-digits versus last year.
Based on year-to-date volumes we expect full year 2013 industry shipments to follow this trend primarily due to lower store volumes.
Despite current market conditions we have continued to deliver quarterly year-over-year margin improvement and expect improved full year margins over 2012 on strong pricing and manufacturing performance.
Year-to-date EBIT margins remain strong at 21% a 4-point improvement over the same period in 2012.
As we look to the fourth quarter we expect that EBIT margins will be lower than rates seen during the first 3 quarters of 2013 on seasonally weak demand.
This is a trend consistent with what we have seen in the fourth quarter margin over the last decade due to seasonality in both sales and production levels.
We anticipate contribution margins in the fourth quarter will continue to be attractive and capable of sustaining strong annualized EBIT margins.
Now Slide 10 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
Net sales for the quarter in Insulation of $431 million were up 12% over the same period last year on stronger volumes improved pricing and the acquisition of Thermafiber.
The business delivered $18 million in EBIT compared to $3 million in EBIT in 2012.
Our strong third quarter performance has lifted our year-to-date EBIT performance to a profit which is a significant milestone for this business.
As I stated on our last call our Insulation business has turned to profitability on a trailing 4-quarter basis at about 800 000 lagged U.S.
housing starts.
The last time we were at breakeven was in 2008 at just over 1 million lagged starts on generally higher prices.
Our team has done a great job of lowering our breakeven through strong cost management and manufacturing performance.
Operating leverage in the third quarter was approximately 40% excluding the impact of our second quarter acquisition of Thermafiber.
On a year-to-date basis operating leverage is approximately 45% excluding Thermafiber.
Throughout the year we've invested in product quality our manufacturing network and the Owens Corning PINK brand.
These investments have been a bit of a headwind for operating leverage this year.
U.S.
new construction insulation volumes are healthy and have continued to track with growth trends and new residential starts.
In addition the business has continued to demonstrate strong price realization in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis the business has delivered about $50 million of year-on-year price improvement.
As the U.S.
housing market continues to recover we expect to see further sales growth with improved pricing as industry capacity utilization tightens.
With the pricing actions that we have taken and the improved volume leverage and manufacturing performance we have demonstrated year-over-year we remain confident in our guidance of double-digit revenue growth and a profitable full-year 2013.
Now I'll ask you to turn your attention to Slide 11 for a review of our Composites business.
Net sales in our Composites business for the quarter were $453 million a 1% decrease compared to the same period in 2012.
The decline in revenue was driven primarily by the impact of foreign exchange translation.
For the quarter overall volumes were down slightly versus our expectations on lower than anticipated IP growth and weakness in North American roofing demand.
Our third quarter pricing actions delivered positive sequential results and we are encouraged by recent trends.
EBIT for the quarter was $21 million compared to $11 million in the same period last year on lower plant startup and maintenance costs and improved capacity utilization.
EBIT results declined sequentially as a result of plant maintenance cost challenging manufacturing performance at the 2 facilities and lower volumes.
I'm pleased to report the manufacturing challenges that impacted our third quarter performance have been largely resolved.
And now we expect full year Composites results to be consistent with last year.
With that review of our third quarter performance I now ask you to turn to Slide 12 where we will review our other financial guidance for 2013.
We have revised our outlook for capital spending to be about $350 million down from $380 million primarily as a result of higher repair versus replacement cost associated with the rebuild of our New Jersey roofing facility.
The overall cost of this rebuild is consistent with our original estimates.
However we had originally anticipated more costs to be classified as capital versus expense.
Excluding the capital cost of this rebuild capital spending is still expected to be roughly in line with depreciation and amortization of about $315 million.
We now expect corporate expenses to be about $105 million down from our previous guidance of about $120 million.
The primary driver of this decrease is reduced variable incentive compensation.
As a result of the geographic mix of our earnings year-to-date and our outlook for the remainder of the year we have revised our outlook of our full-year effective tax rate on adjusted earnings to be about 30%.
Our $2.1 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
Our expectation for cash taxes remains unchanged at about 10% to 12% or $30 million.
Even with significant year-over-year earnings growth our cash taxes have remained flat to 2012 as a result of our NOL position and successful tax planning initiatives.
During the third quarter we repurchased 1.4 million shares of the company's common stock for $54 million.
These share buybacks represent a returned capital to our shareholders and reflect our strong outlook for growth in earnings and free cash flow generation.
In summary we delivered improved performance in each of our businesses in the third quarter compared to last year.
And although early in the year there are expectations of a more rapid acceleration of construction activity and a better roofing market we remain confident that we will deliver at least $100 million of adjusted EBIT improvement in 2013.
Thank you.
I'll now hand the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I noted in the outset of today's call all 3 of our businesses improved performance over 2012 and we're positioned to finish the year strong.
Our year has not been without challenges.
We've had some unexpected market headwinds notably a declining roofing market and an overall weaker global economy.
In addition we've had some execution challenges specifically in the third quarter composites manufacturing performance.
However we are very pleased with our overall progress in 2013.
The continued execution of our management actions including price realization in insulation margin management in roofing and cost reductions in our production network and price realization in composites will provide a significant step forward in the financial performance of our company for 2013 and into 2014.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Thierry who will lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thank you Mike.
Andrew we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions here.
First can you recall when the last time you saw such a divergent trend in your market share in roofing was and what caused it? What gives you confidence that it's the regional factors and not some relative difference in pricing and promotion? And the second question I had what was the incremental impact of the investment that you made on product quality manufacturing network et cetera within insulation and will that all reverse next year? Thanks George.
Let me start by talking about Roofing.
I would tell you I guess I've been with the company now 21 years so I've been around the analysis of our results for a long time.
This was really the first quarter that we dug into kind of state-by-state shipment data and state-by-state market share data at the level we did because we saw some trends in the quarter that did surprise us in terms of the size of the volume swings that we saw in some parts of the country.
So at least in my history I would say this is probably the biggest change in the overall geographic mix of the market.
Now I think this is a bit of an outgrowth of the change we've seen in the overall market over the course of the last 4 or 5 years where we are seeing more inventory put into the market early in the year and then we're seeing distribution customers primarily manage that inventory through the summer so that end use market dynamics are now starting of having an impact on kind of regional demand and regional shipment characteristics.
So I wouldn't say that -- our theory is not that we saw the end use market shift as dramatically as maybe we saw it in our books but that because of inventory effects we saw the order pattern of our customers shift.
And certainly on the coast up and in the Northeast where there's probably still a lot of Sandy rebuilding and then the new construction markets kind of down into Southeastern Florida and then along the West Coast which is a little bit more new construction-driven generally for asphalt shingles those are markets that are a little bit below national average for our share.
And then kind of as you come off the coast that tends to be a little bit above national average for our share.
A lot of those markets saw a lot of storm activity in 2011 and 2012.
As we've gone back and done some detailed analysis of those markets there does appear to be a bit of a storm hangover effect where if you have a lot of storm activity in a year that does pull forward some reroof demand maybe for the year or 2 that follows where some of the roofs that might have gotten done in '12 or '13 got pulled forward because of insurance claims.
So we can explain most of the variation we've seen in the market as being a normal evolution of what we've seen in storms and what we've seen in new construction.
We can also explain it based on inventories that we saw year-to-date and so we took pretty good comfort when we looked at all our year-to-date numbers kind of on a region-by-region basis and nationally we think we sustained our position in the market.
Because with some regional changes our market share is down just a touch this year but on a regional basis our market share is pretty much where we expected it to be.
But it all kind of showed up in the third quarter and we were feeling pretty good that we were a little bit ahead of the market through the first half and then here in the third we kind of took that outperformance and reverted back to the overall market.
I think the thing we're most proud of though is our margin performance obviously through all 3 quarters has been outstanding.
We got the year off to a great start in the first quarter managed our margins very successfully through the second and the third.
So when we look at year-to-date numbers for roofing we're nothing but pleased.
And probably the only point of disappointment would be we came into the year thinking the overall roofing market should be about flat for the full year it's down mid-single-digits year-to-date and we think it'll be probably down mid-single-digits for the full year.
So the overall market opportunity is less than what we might have expected when we came into the year but we've overcome that headwind with better margin performance.
Your second question which was really a question about the investments we've made in insulation in product quality in the operational network.
I'm going to comment on that question a little bit differently and just talk for a second about operating leverage and then I'll work my way back to that.
I think Michael made in his comments and I said in my comments that excluding the Thermafiber acquisition that our operating leverage in the quarter was about 40%.
If you read our 10-Q we said about 1/3 of the growth in Insulation in the quarter came from Thermafiber we grew the business about $50 million so kind of $16 million $17 million of that was Thermafiber.
When we disclosed that acquisition not a significant acquisition in terms of what we paid for the business.
It's about a 10% EBIT business.
So if you pull the EBIT of that business out you pull the revenue of that business out you can see that revenue growth in the organic underlying business was closer to kind of $33 million $34 million and the overall EBIT growth was probably more in the $15 million range if you pull out some EBIT for Thermafiber.
So year-to-date we're about 45% when you make that adjustment.
In the quarter we're about 40% when you make that adjustment we think that's a fair adjustment because obviously when we gave that guidance we didn't contemplate how acquisitions would play into that.
If you actually back up to last year and do that same analysis over the last 7 quarters our operating leverage is about 51%.
So we've always said that operating leverage would bounce up and down a little bit quarter by quarter and some of that is because of some of the investments that we're making right now in terms of product quality and in a couple cases bringing on some capacity that causes some onetime costs.
But for the most part we're really happy with our operating leverage.
I wouldn't say that there's a lot of benefit I think from our perspective or even from our investors' perspective trying to quantify some of those quarter-on-quarter investments because there's some of the noise that's always going to exist in this overarching operating leverage target we've set.
But I think we're right on track in insulation when you look at the 50% operating leverage goal we're right on that number over 7 quarters.
And then if you listen to Michael's remarks we had said that at 800 000 lag starts in the second quarter the business was breakeven on an LTM basis.
It's now making money LTM it's now making money year-to-date as we start progressing our way back towards a more constructive construction market.
So we're very enthusiastic with all the underlying trends we see in our Roofing business -- our Insulation business and feel very very good about the progress that we reported here in the third quarter.
[indiscernible] Kim of Barclays Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the previous question.
With respect to the Roofing business if we could take the revenue you were talking about the fact that the regional analysis this quarter was something that you hadn't really undertaken as extensively before but that it was basically indicating that you had held share.
I guess I'm curious is if over the next 6 months or so you kind of learn differently that perhaps you see some evidence that you had lost some share.
I was wondering what are you prepared to do in terms of your pricing? Is your general sense that you're prepared to rein in pricing in order to recover some share or hold share? Or if you could just sort of comment about your overall views for how you balance share or perceived share with your pricing strategy that would be helpful.
Well thanks Stephen.
A great question because I think that a little bit how we talk about the business here in the quarter is instructive in how we think about the business also in terms of pricing which is for reporting purposes we obviously report the business as though it's 1 big national market.
We report pricing and margins as though it operates as 1 big national market.
And in fact you do see some pretty significant variations region by region and even in local markets not just in terms of market share among the industry participants but also price levels in individual markets and also margin performance in markets.
So it is possible as you said that if we saw share trends that we didn't like and we thought that the root cause of those share trends was pricing competitiveness that we in fact might need to respond I think the way we would think about that is it wouldn't be a national response and that the market doesn't really operate as a national market but it's possible that you could find some geographies where we felt to defend our position in the marketplace we needed to either adjust the pricing on 1 or more of our products and I think that's the other real benefit of our product line which is really our showcase product is our duration shingle which is a Croydon engineered shingle that's preferred by reroof contractors.
It has real benefits to the reroof contractor in terms of how it's installed it has real benefits to the homeowner in terms of the aesthetics and also in terms of warranty.
So we have real value built into that product and I wouldn't necessarily feel like if we had a region or a market where price competitiveness was an issue that it would necessarily impact the price levels of that product.
It might impact some of the products that go into new construction which tends to be where there's been more price competition.
So we're now talking about some percent of some percent of some percent of the market where if we needed to adjust pricing we would do that in order to support our share position.
So we think that's all manageable and those are all the things that happen every single day in the business.
So what I would describe to you as a look forward on how we might think about pricing in the business it's things that our team have been doing every day for the last 10 months of the year in terms of how we got to the results we reported today.
So on a year-to-date basis we've had all those same margin management price management market share management challenges and the net of that the result has been great margins and sustaining our position in the market.
And I think going forward I would expect our team to be to manage all those dynamics on a market-by-market basis and produce great margins and sustain our market position in the market.
So I think there's nothing about the future that feels any different about the past.
If anything having come through the winter discounting last year where the winter discounting in our view worked for us in a much better way.
We were able to offer much milder discounts as a result of the fact we didn't see big change in asphalt prices.
We were able to ship our product in the first quarter at very good margins.
We're certainly heading into the winter setting that kind of goal for our team that we would like them to manage the winter discounting in a way that we sustain our position in the marketplace but that we still come into next year with good margins and position our customers with good inventories heading into the spring selling season.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Yes that would be great.
Appreciate that.
Second question relates to your Insulation business.
Actually the builders that we speak with have been talking about and reacting to the fact that demand sort of slowed over the summer and there's a concurrent call right now with a builder who indicated I guess that October volume trends were slower than September and this is I think in general something that we're hearing more and more about.
In general the idea that margins at the homebuilder side are starting to -- you're starting to see a crest forming in 2014.
And in that environment I was curious -- or against that backdrop I was curious if you could comment on whether you think you're seeing any growing resistance or slackening in your ability to achieve positive pricing trajectories in Insulation or if you believe that that is not really something that you're perceiving in the marketplace? Sure.
I mean let me first start by talking a little bit about what we think the overall market for housing is.
I mean certainly we read all the reports that you guys produce and that others produce and it does seem like the market has gone through a little bit of a flat spot here.
It's not that it's gone into decline but that rate of growth we maybe saw through first 5 or 6 months of the year has slowed down a bit.
Our internal analysis of that would suggest that that makes a fair amount of sense given that we saw a pretty rapid and sudden rise in mortgage rates.
That kind of the rate of change of mortgage rates in a very short period of time would cause a little bit of a shock effect in the market where some buyers were maybe eager to come in the market would take a pause and really evaluate their financial situation and their decision about buying a house.
That said when we look at the fundamentals of the market home prices have continued to go up mortgage rates on a historical basis are still very very low.
Housing starts have been extremely low for a 5- or 6-year period of time.
All the demographics are showing an increasing rate of household formation and rents are going up in most major markets.
So when you have that kind of stew of activity in the marketplace it certainly says to us this is a pause in kind of an exorable rise of housing activity which is what's really important to us.
I think in that environment with increased housing activity as a manufacturer our facilities are getting more loaded.
We're still not at margin rates that are acceptable to us so certainly our stance would be if we have manufacturing operations that aren't producing margins before we would go and add a lot more production into our network we would like to see better margins which is why our focus has been on price management.
Certainly we would bring capacity on to meet growth in demand.
So we have the ability to go do that but we need to see better margins.
The builders have been getting a lot of price.
So I think the overall cost of an insulation package has a share of the value of new construction.
I don't have the number in front of me but I'm guessing over the last 15 years insulation packages have probably been cut in half as a percent of the total cost of a house.
So from a value point of view us and our contractor customers are providing tremendous value to the builder and tremendous value to the homeowner in a product that saves energy for the life of the entire -- life of the house.
Today at prices that are low compared to history and certainly low compared to the price of the houses I think if you had on top of that what's happening with building codes we talked about this in the past but there continue to be positive developments in the recommendations of the IECC in terms of the implementation of building codes that cause houses to become more and more energy-efficient and therefore good value insulation packages become more and more valuable to the builder.
We certainly think we're still in a very valuable place in the product we provide and the value proposition which we provide it.
So I wouldn't expect that in terms of the value we provide that there would be much pushback on what we do in insulation.
Now it's a competitive market.
I think the pushback would be if our product was priced uncompetitively and the builder had better options we know the builders are going to go to how they can build the house with the best possible value.
But as long as we're priced competitively and we're working hard to provide that builder great value we think that we should be able to restore pricing back to something that looks more like historical prices on a nominal and real basis.
The next question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with -- both my questions have to do with Composites actually.
You mentioned that you're encouraged by the pricing actions in the third quarter and -- but at the same time there was a little bit of weakness I believe you said in North America in addition to global IP.
So I was just hoping to get a little bit more granularity if possible in terms of the pricing trends that you saw during the quarter and particularly in North America but perhaps you could take us across Europe and Asia as well to the extent possible.
Just trying to get a sense of the direction of pricing and if that should be a tailwind along with the resolution of some of the manufacturing issues that you saw in the third quarter? Sure.
I'm happy to talk about that.
Let me first talk about your North American question because it maybe that my prepared remarks were kind of inartfully written.
But the objective of our comments regarding the North American market in particular the North American roofing market was really a volume comment.
So we thought coming into the year obviously we thought that the roofing market in total would be flat.
We're now calling that market kind of down mid-single-digits.
That's an important market to Owens Corning as a roofing manufacturer.
It's also a very important market to our Composites business particularly North America where we're really the leading supplier of glass and mat to that market.
So we've had to adjust our expectations for volume related to that vertical in North America which is a really good vertical for us on the Composites side.
That's not a price comment.
So from a pricing point of view that has not impacted our outlook on pricing nor has it affected our near-term pricing.
We reported today on the call that we had sequential price improvements from the first quarter to the second and then again from the second quarter to the third.
I would say that that's pretty much in every region of the world.
Now when we talk about materiality we didn't I don't think telegraph today that we're yet getting material levels of price that are going to bridge that gap back from where we are today at probably 5% EBIT margins back to where we were just 1.5 years ago both 2011 and 2010 the business produced EBIT margins of around 10%.
But we do think that a couple quarters of sequential pricing is a really important leading indicator and the fact that we're getting that in almost every region of the world is a very important leading indicator of our overall theory for the business which is for Owens Corning when we see long periods of reduced investment in capacity by us and our competitors when we see periods of demand growth where utilizations industry-wide are improving we have seen for Owens Corning that that has produced pricing cycles and has produced the ability for us to improve the margins of the business.
That's certainly our theory of composites today.
And then over the next couple years we're working our way towards trying to create one of those pricing cycles for our company.
I think over the last couple quarters we've at least seen early indications that continue to support that thesis.
So that's a lot of work for us to do for the remainder of this year.
I think most of you are aware that we do have contract negotiations with a fairly sizable portion of our customer base in the fourth quarter.
How that supports improved pricing within those contracts and how that supports improved pricing in 2014 is the next chapter of the book for us to write but we're optimistic based on we've seen in the last couple quarters that the trend is on the right direction for our business and that eventually price will be a big lever for us getting back to kind of double-digit EBIT margins that we demonstrated in '10 and '11.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess the second question also in Composites with the agreement to close and sell the facility in Hangzhou if you just us a sense I don't know if it's possible just a little history on this particular facility if this was the one that I believe opened up a couple years ago when there was a disruption in the wind market and the expectations in terms of profitability for this particular facility if it was a drag on profitability in 2012 or 2013? And you also mentioned a partnership to continue to serve the facility how that would potentially flow through the income statement? Sure.
Happy to talk about that.
And I first of all I really appreciate you asking that question because to the extent there's any confusion about that this gives me an opportunity to clear it up.
The facility we built and commissioned 3 or 4 years ago is in Yuhang which is actually quite close to Hangzhou.
So the confusion there is real.
But that facility which is a greenfield site is operating exceedingly well today.
We think that's probably one of the low-cost facilities anywhere in the world.
We have found a good market for the production of that facility which does include some improvement in the wind market in China but is very much now diversified across all the performance markets of China and we've been very very happy with the performance of that plant that it's fully loaded and performing at very high levels relative to any other plants in the world.
The Hangzhou facility was a facility that was owned by Vetrotex at the time of the acquisition.
It's really a legacy composites facility in China so it's been around for a while.
The reason why the municipality approached us is it's really now moved kind of into the city proper.
So I think at the time it was built it was way out in a rural area and as the city of Hangzhou has grown it's now kind of engulfed our facility.
And as a part of the economic development plan for the town it's -- I say town it's city I mean these are all cities that are much bigger than some of the cities we have here in the U.S.
They came to us and said they would like to revert the land back to them.
It was a subscale relatively high-cost facility.
It did support our market share position in China but I would say it was not materially contributing to financial results in China.
We obviously were nervous about the ability to strike a deal that allowed us to recover some of our capital and also put us in a position where we could maybe make the investments that will allow us to sustain our market share position.
I think the team was very clever and creative.
We worked with Jinniu who's a local manufacturer they had some desire to try to drive their cost position down.
They came to us looking at our Advantex technology and asked for a license.
We reported in the second quarter that we agreed to license them and help them build a melter in exchange for an offtake agreement.
In effect that offtake agreement provides us about the same amount of volume in China as we were producing in Hangzhou but we can do it at lower cost.
We can defend our market share position in China and actually recycle some of this capital that had been at the Hangzhou facility back into the corporation.
So it's really a winner for us all around.
And I think as Jinniu's facility comes up and we start putting that product into the market as the facility in Hangzhou reverts back to the municipal government you'll see some margin expansion in our business in China which obviously we don't report that segment specifically.
I would just comment quickly so that people aren't confused we announced a separate transaction with Taishan in the second quarter where they're going to make a specialty product that we had to manufacture in Europe and we're expecting a similar type of transition next year which is that facility in Europe which was a part of our European restructuring will get to the end of its furnace life here sometime in the next 2 -- couple quarters.
When we get to the end of the furnace life for that facility it will then be shut down.
Taishan will pick up the production of that facility at lower cost.
We have an offtake agreement to take that product back to the markets that we're currently serving and we're going to work with Taishan to try to develop the market for that product in China.
So we've done a couple of transactions here that give us the ability to defend our position in the market reduce our capital base in composites and reduce our cost base all at the same time.
And this is one of those that kind of came through the financials this quarter so it made sense for us to report on that in more detail but it doesn't have anything to do with our facility at Yuhang which is operating very well and at very low cost today.
The next question comes from Mike Wood of Macquarie.
In Insulation excluding the acquisition it looks like overall you had relatively flattish volume growth.
Can you give us a sense of the sales volume trends by your major categories such as your North American housing C&amp;I and Canadian businesses? And ultimately was there in hindsight a pre-buy hangover ahead of that June price increase that you felt in that North American housing-related businesses? Yes Mike it's a great question because in fact when I went through the operating leverage reconciliation you can look at the quarter and either you look at the insulation top line and say gee growth was pretty good but they didn't get the leverage.
Or when you adjust out Thermafiber I think you can look at the quarter and say gee for the quarter and year-to-date leverage is pretty good but the top line growth maybe isn't as aggressive as what we would've expected.
And you hit the nail right on the head which is when you go by segment the commercial and industrial markets are obviously growing quite a bit more slowly than U.S.
residential construction.
The 2 markets that had been a helper for us over the course of the last 2 or 3 years which was Canada and Asia where we had seen decent growth we're not really seeing growth now outside of the U.S.
Canada had some stimulus in housing starts and some incentives and other things that have caused starts year-over-year to decline.
Our business in Asia is still doing very well but some of the credit tightening and other things has definitely affected rate of volume growth.
So kind of our non-U.S.
geographies haven't really contributed this year.
Our commercial and industrial business has contributed to growth but is not contributing at the rate of U.S.
residential.
And so U.S.
res which would also include re-insulation some of the products we sell at retail in lumberyard is not just pure new construction we are seeing that kind of 20% growth that you'd expect to see based on where housing starts are.
So when we take the pieces of the business apart in management reporting we feel very good about where we see growth in the U.S.
res market we feel good about what we're seeing in terms of operating leverage we feel good about what we see in terms of sequential pricing we feel great about being profitable year-to-date.
We feel really good about the best quarter in 6 years and we really think we're starting to see an Insulation business that will become a big theme in the financial performance of our company and certainly in the outlook to our stock price.
Got it.
And then in terms of broadly speaking the pre-buy that you've seen in both roofing and insulation how are you thinking about managing differently going forward when you have an upcoming price increase in insulation winter discounting in roofing? Yes I think they're different businesses but I think pre-buying is a fact of life when you're in a business that has inventory positions and customers who take inventory positions and also when a lot of your management focus is on trying to manage and execute price increases well.
You don't want to do that at the expense of your customers you want to do that in a way that your customers have the ability to make margin and improve their performance as a result.
Insulation and roofing work very differently though which is insulation is a very bulky product difficult to store.
So what we've seen historically is a pre-buy in insulation of 1 week or 2 weeks tends to be a fair amount of pre-buy and we would potentially expect to see some pre-buy.
We have a November price increase in the Insulation -- in our Insulation business here coming up in the fourth quarter which we put in place to make sure that our contractors have good price visibility on how to price business in new construction for next year.
We would expect that we would see some purchases in the quarter that would wash out in the quarter and then maybe some purchases in the quarter that would carry inventory positions into next year in insulation but I wouldn't say that that's going to be a material theme.
Roofing is very different because you can store the product outside.
So storage cost of roofing I mean it's designed to be out in the weather.
So we've seen a much different dynamic there and we think that dynamic will continue and that probably what manages that dynamic on our behalf and our customers' behalf is the price swings are less dramatic.
And we do hear from our distribution customers this year that there's been some margin compression out their door.
And we certainly believe as many of them do that the overhang of very low-cost inventories being put into the market earlier in the year are making it harder and harder for our distribution customers to manage pricing through the year.
So creating these really big overhangs in the market in the first quarter hasn't been helping the manufacturer like Owens Corning.
We don't think it's helping our customers either and so the sanity of what we saw last year of trying to give a little bit smaller discounts put more reasonable inventory positions into the business early in the year and then manage pricing through the first half of the year to allow them to earn some margin on the product they buy from us is probably the right way for that industry -- for us to operate with our customers.
That question will come from Ken Zener of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you guys could expand on Insulation.
You obviously give very good disclosure in your Q where you talked about Insulation EBIT being up $15 million and $48 million year-to-date which seems to overlay pretty close to the $15 million and $50 million benefit you guys got from pricing in Insulation.
Mike you talked about Canada commercial markets Asia.
But to the extent all the EBIT expansion was on price with the volume gains offset by kind of inflation mix or SG&amp;A as you guys highlighted did you guys expect to get volume gains at this point of the cycle? Because my impression was that price was more of a later cycle EBIT catalyst but it appears to be the sole catalyst.
Yes thanks Ken.
Let me talk for a second about price and then maybe talk about kind of how we see the evolution of leverage in the Insulation business and kind of where we are what inning we're in in that evolution.
One of the things that's a little bit -- is not misleading in our disclosure because it's accurate but it can be a little bit misleading in terms of how you would want to do the analysis is we reported through the first half of the year that last year through the first half we've seen insulation prices were about flat.
We reported some price gains in the second and third quarter as we finished out the year.
In fact through the first half of last year we've seen a little bit of price weakness early in the year that we had recovered in the second quarter.
So we had kind of flattish overall price in the first half.
So our comps this year when we look on year-on-year comparisons of price we show that we had gotten a lot of price versus the first half of last year but in fact sequentially most of that price we picked up first in the third quarter last year was a price increase then then we picked up some more price sequentially with our price increase in the first quarter of this year.
Now we picked up price again sequentially with our price increase through the summer which has given us some gains here in the third quarter.
And again with the November price increase with some success in that increase we probably expect to pick up price sequentially as we head into the beginning part of next year.
So we're not going to necessarily show smooth price progression we're going to show some sequential price kind of after each price increase as we get a little bit of a rhythm and success in price increases.
I would say that when we looked at the recovery of the Insulation business we were losing about $100 million at 600 000 starts we had said we thought we could make $100 million at about 1 million starts and that we didn't see any reason when we got back to 1.5 million starts that we would anywhere besides our normal historical margin rates of 15% better which is what we had [indiscernible] 25 years.
I think we're right on track with that curve.
I think early on we thought we would get a lot of manufacturing and operating leverage because we had a number of melters that were operating at less than 100% so our marginal economics of putting more production into our melters was pretty good and we knew that in the early innings some recovery in housing would give us some additional volume that we could manufacture at marginal economics on melters that were already running.
We then got to a stage where we needed to start turning on some capacity to support demand growth and it was really in that stage which is the stage we're in where it was our expectation we were going to need to see higher prices in order to give us the incentive to really want to bring that capacity because in fact our margin rates in the U.S.
residential construction market have been negative I mean we've been pretty clear about that.
So in fact growing volumes in that segment if it's not marginal manufacturing economics as you grow volumes there's no calories at all in that growth because the margin rate is actually negative.
So we've now gotten to a point where the margins in U.S.
residential construction are at least kind of neutral and as a result as we get some price the marginal price falls through even though the volume is being supported by some additional production.
We'd expect as we get into the next stage of this recovery that we would get to positive margins in U.S.
residential construction.
And so in fact we get a little bit better operating leverage in our facilities we would actually make positive margin on the volume we ship and we would start to get price falling through to the bottom line.
But it's hard for us to see with negative margins why we wouldn't get into a period a year where we would get some price recovery and that would fall through.
But right now the volume we ship is still not particularly profitable and so it's not giving us a lot of leverage and we don't have marginal manufacturing economics anymore.
Most of our hot melters are fully utilized.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that.
Roofing the comments you just made a few questions ago raised the idea.
Can you talk about inventory since you did such a regional analysis how you think it is if there was pre-buying if there was too much as we move into year-end when seasonally there's some sequential price historically all else being equal seasonal weakness in pricing can you talk about inventory levels? And then you seemed to comment on some distributors trying to move their inventory putting a little pressure on price related to -- for whatever reason could you expand on that and clarify the inventory as you see it? Yes we comment on that I would tell you we're not the authorities on this and we don't have great visibility to it.
So we tend to kind of do a math balance equation.
We look at industry shipments we look at our estimate of how big we think the overall end-use market was and if we think introduced shipments are in balance or out of balance with the overall end-use market then inventory was either created or depleted.
I think this year our overall sense nationally and I'll talk about it nationally where we say the market is going to be down mid-single-digits is if manufacturer shipments were down mid-single-digits that would probably pretty much mirror distributor and retail and lumberyard shipments into the market.
So the end-use markets was probably down about mid-single-digits.
The distributors bought about that same amount.
And as a result the year-end inventories would be about in balance with where they were last year.
So on a regional basis there's probably some markets that are ahead of that position there's some markets that are behind that position but kind of our current guidance assumes that if the market is down mid-single-digits that that basically is both end-use estimate as well as shipment estimate and that those 2 numbers are about in balance.
As we look into next year that puts storm demand at a pretty low level relative to history.
It puts new construction demand in a position where we would expect it to continue to grow with new construction.
And it actually puts reroof demand for this year having declined a bit versus 2012 and so we would expect now that some of these storms in the center of the country are a little bit further in history that maybe we'd start to see some recovery there.
so our initial thoughts for next year is it's reasonable to expect that both the new construction and the reroof market would increase next year and that in fact storms are probably at least comping flat to maybe some improvement.
So if we can get through the fourth quarter here with good margins if we can have the right inventory position with our customers the thing that would really make us feel good about roofing is actually having great margins in a growing market which may be the environment we find ourselves in next year.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Thierry Denis for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you Andrew and thank you all for your participation to the call today.
Our next quarterly earnings call is scheduled for February 12 of next year when we will report on full-year 2013 results.
And in the meantime I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you that we will be holding an Investor Day in our Toledo Ohio headquarter location on November 8 and I look forward to seeing many of you here.
And now I'll turn it back over to Mike for a few closing remarks.
Thanks Thierry and thanks everyone for your interest in our company and for your very good questions.
Obviously we're pleased with a lot of things that are going on in the business.
If you look at our guidance originally for the year our guidance was $100 million of EBIT improvement with upside being determined by the rate of recovery of the U.S.
construction market and its impact on our margins.
I think today in our guidance we backed off a little bit on some of the upside statements and said look we think we'll get the $100 million of EBIT improvement or more but we're 10 months through the year.
So I think it's a little easier for us to see that maybe the roofing market isn't going to give us the tailwind we're looking for and in fact it may be a bit of a headwind in aggregate.
U.S.
new construction has been great.
It's not quite galloping ahead at this moment but we continue to be very confident in it.
So it maybe could've given us a little bit more of a push than it's given us but we've been very happy with that -- how that's played out.
And obviously global industrial production has been kind of downgraded through the year and that's been one of the themes that's hurt our composites demand profile.
So some of the things that could've helped us produce some significant upside to that number which were market-based didn't come to pass.
But some of the execution things that we needed to do in order to get to that guidance we feel very good about our performance.
So margin management in our Roofing business has been very good year-to-date price management and production management in our Insulation business has been very good year-to-date price management and price realization in Composites is starting to show some early signs of progress.
And despite a little bit of our commentary of disappointment in the third quarter in terms of manufacturing performance in composites we are seeing better performance in our manufacturing network and we're seeing creative deals like the Jinniu deal and the Taishan deal which is giving us some ability to continue to support our market position without needing to put capital into that business.
And in fact in this quarter finding a way to actually recycle some capital out of that business while continuing to lower our cost.
So from a management agenda point of view I feel like we're right on track this year in what we needed to execute.
I would have loved to have seen a little bit stronger markets but the market themes that we talked about for this year we think are market themes that support next year again.
So we would expect to see some better roofing market next year.
We would expect to see continued growth in new construction.
And in fact we would expect to see industrial production improving a little bit from what we saw in 2013.
So we're continuing to work every day to get the businesses positioned for a more positive macro environment that allows us to accelerate earnings growth.
But relative to our history we're feeling very good about the fact that $100 million of EBIT growth or more this year represents a very nice step forward for the company financially with more to come.
So thanks for your interest in our company and we look forward to seeing many of you at Investor Day here next month.
Have a safe week.
Bye-bye.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Aaron and I’ll be your operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q1 2014 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After our speakers’ remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I’d also like to remind you that today’s conference call is being recorded Wednesday April 23 2014.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Denis you may begin.
Thank you Aaron and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you taking the time to join us for today’s conference call in review of our business results for the first quarter of 2014.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning’s Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one hour call to your questions.
Please limit yourselves to one question and one follow up.
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a Form 10-Q that detailed our results for the first quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we’ve prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the quarter.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the slides at our website owenscorning.com.
We have a link on our homepage and a link on the Investor section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference slide two before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today’s remarks will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
These statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially and we undertake no obligation to update these statements beyond what is required under applicable securities laws.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent risks and uncertainties affecting such forward-looking statements.
Second this presentation and today’s prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures maybe found within the financial tables of our earnings release on owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare results from period to period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the first quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 29% inline with our anticipated annual effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2014.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on slide four.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by CFO Michael McMurray.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our first quarter results.
We are pleased to report that our financial performance in the first quarter especially in our Insulation and Composites businesses has helped us maintain the momentum we generated last year.
Our first quarter results were consistent with the first quarter of 2013 despite weaker than expected volumes in our Roofing business and challenging winter weather affecting Insulation demand.
The company earned $77 million in adjusted EBIT consolidated revenue for the first quarter was $1.3 billion and adjusted earnings were $35 million all consistent with last year’s performance.
At the outset of the year we discussed a number of expectations for sustained or improved performance across our businesses in 2014.
Let me review them now starting with safety.
As is the case each year we said that we would continue to make progress toward our goal of creating an injury-free workplace.
We continued our progress in safety by improving our recordable injury total by 23% year-on-year.
Our company’s commitment to living safely was formally recognized on April 10th when the National Safety Council awarded Owens Corning its Green Cross for Safety medal.
In Roofing we said that we will deliver another strong year in 2014.
We had expected first quarter volumes to be down 10% and full year volumes to show some growth.
In fact Roofing volumes were weaker than expected in the quarter and trailed the overall market.
While the volume performance in the quarter puts our 2014 outlook for this business at some additional risk we are maintaining our full year view for the Roofing market and believe that we can make good progress in the coming quarters to recover volumes that we did not ship in the first quarter.
In Insulation we said that we should continue to realize the benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
Insulation delivered EBIT improvement of $22 million primarily driven by better pricing.
The business posted a profit for the first quarter the first time since 2008.
It was also the 11th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement.
U.S.
residential construction volumes grew versus last year.
However we believe that volumes were impacted by weather conditions that delayed construction activity.
In Composites we said the company expects improving market conditions and pricing to drive EBIT growth year-on-year.
Improved manufacturing performance and higher volumes are expected to offset higher rebuild expenses.
First quarter Composites EBIT was $27 million an increase of $18 million primarily driven by continued price improvement and improved operating performance.
Execution of our 2014 furnace rebuild plan is underway and progressed well in the first quarter.
Another milestone I would like to note for the quarter is our gain related to the sale of our composites facility in Hangzhou China.
This is another significant achievement for our business in China.
It also represents a further improvement of our cost position while generating cash.
Overall Owens Corning had a good start to the year which is a reflection of the underlying strength of our core glass businesses and their position in the marketplace.
We are confident any effects of the winter weather in North America should be temporary and as the year progresses all our businesses will perform well.
Now let me summarize the expectations we have for the remainder of 2014.
The Insulation business should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
Pricing drove the bulk of our first quarter EBIT improvement.
With the spring season upon us volume is expected to continue growing and we recently announced a price increase effective in June.
A sustained housing recovery and our recent pricing actions underpin our confidence that we can deliver another year of improvement in this critical business and continue to restore our insulation prices to historical levels.
In Composites we continue to expect moderate global industrial production growth in 2014.
Recovering market conditions are expected to drive price improvement of $20 million to $30 million with pricing expected to be the primary driver of EBIT growth in 2014.
Improved manufacturing performance and stronger volumes are expected to offset higher rebuild expenses.
In Roofing our full year outlook for the market opportunity is unchanged from our initial expectations.
We had estimated that our Q1 roofing volumes would be down about 10%.
As the quarter progressed our volumes tracked weaker than this original estimate.
We believed that difficult weather conditions and obvious sell-through issues for our customers were having a more negative impact on shipments than we had originally thought.
Our current estimate is that industry volumes were down mid-single digits for the quarter.
Although we would normally expect to lag the market in the first quarter due to our mix of channels and geographies our volumes trailed industry shipments by more than we expected.
As the year progresses we would expect to regain this placement and that our shipments would track the market for the full year.
For Owens Corning the full year market outlook remains unchanged.
We anticipate full year adjusted EBIT of $500 million based on the current outlook for an improving U.S.
housing market and moderate global growth.
Insulation and Composites have started the year very much in line with these expectations and are increasingly looking like the great businesses we know them to be.
The lower than expected roofing volumes have introduced some risk into our overall outlook for the year.
We are confident our team is addressing that risk and will deliver another great year in roofing.
With that I’ll now turn it over to Michael who will review further details of our business and corporate performance.
I’ll then return to recap and open it up for questions.
Michael? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier we posted first quarter results that were in line with the prior year as continued improvement in our Insulation and Composites businesses helped offset weaker than expected roofing volumes.
We believe confidence in our execution throughout the remainder of the year combined with recovering markets will drive improved financial performance in 2014.
Now let’s start on slide five which summarizes our key financial data for the first quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today’s news release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported first quarter 2014 consolidated net sales of $1.3 billion which were down slightly with sales reported for the same period in 2013.
In our roofing business net sales were down 18% over the prior year on lower sales volumes.
Net sales in our insulation business increased $25 million primarily on higher selling prices.
Lastly net sales in our composites business were up 4% due to higher selling prices and higher sales volumes.
In a moment I’ll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period to period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the first quarter of 2014 was $77 million flat compared to the same period one year ago.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2014 and 2013 were $35 million or $0.29 per diluted share.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $76 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $2 million lower than the first quarter of 2013 which included $3 million of accelerated depreciation related to our asset restructuring in Europe.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $51 million.
Now on slide six let me reconcile 2014 first quarter adjusted EBIT of $77 million to our reported EBIT of $108 million.
We have adjusted out $45 million related to the gain on sale of our Composites facility in Hangzhou China.
As stated in our third quarter 2013 call this facility was sold in exchange for proceeds of approximately $70 million.
We received our third installment payment of $21 million earlier in April in accordance with the contract and the final $14 million payment is forecasted to be received in the second half of this year.
Our previously announced supply offtake arrangement with Jinniu will largely replace this capacity.
In addition our other supply agreement with Taishan became operational in the quarter.
These supply agreements and the Hangzhou closure improve our capital efficiency while maintaining our global market position.
When assessing future investments including plant rebuild decisions we will continue to look for opportunities to reduce cost improve capital efficiency and drive returns in our Composites business.
In the first quarter of 2014 we also took actions to reduce personnel costs in our Composites segment.
As a result of these actions we recognized a $12 million charge.
Lastly we have also adjusted out $2 million of costs at our New Jersey roofing facility that was damaged as a result of Superstorm Sandy as discussed in previous calls.
We expect to complete this project in the second quarter with an additional $5 million of expenses.
And also of note our first quarter earnings include a $74 million tax benefit that we have adjusted out of our results that I will discuss in more detail later in the presentation.
Now please turn to slide seven where we provide a high level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing first quarter of 2014 with the first quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBIT for the first quarter of 2014 was in line with adjusted EBIT for the first quarter of 2013.
Our Insulation business improved by $22 million and reported its 11th consecutive quarter of EBIT growth Composites EBIT increased by $18 million on higher selling prices and improved operating performance and our Roofing business decreased by $39 million primarily on lower sales volumes.
General corporate expenses were flat versus the prior year.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to slide eight where we provide a more detailed review of our business results starting with Building Materials.
For the first quarter Building Materials sales were $852 million down 9% compared to the prior year primarily due to lower sales volumes in our Roofing business.
Building Materials delivered $81 million in EBIT in the first quarter of 2014 down from $98 million for the same period in 2013.
Slide 9 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing sales for the quarter were $497 million an 18% decrease compared to the same period a year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was $80 million down $39 million compared to the same period in 2013.
The decline in revenue and EBIT were primarily driven by lower sales volumes.
EBIT margins for the quarter declined 3.5 points as a result of lower fixed cost leverage on lower volumes.
Contribution margins remained stable and strong year-over-year as slightly higher selling prices offset inflation.
In the first quarter we estimate that industry shipments were down mid-single digits year-over-year largely driven by harsh winter weather.
In the quarter we expected our volumes to be somewhat weaker than the market due to our higher exposure to channels that generally replenish on a sell-through basis and therefore more adversely impacted by the weather.
Our volumes were weaker than the expectations that we had set on the fourth quarter call as we believe our business did not track the overall market within distribution in the second half of the quarter due to increased buy activity in certain markets that we did not match.
We continue to expect the asphalt shingle market to grow in 2014 primarily driven by growth in new construction activity and possibly some growth in re-roof.
Now Slide 10 provides the summary of our Insulation business.
Sales for the quarter in Insulation of $355 million were up 8% from the same period a year ago on higher selling prices and the acquisition of ThermaFiber.
The business delivered EBIT of $1 million in the first quarter compared to a loss of $21 million in the same period one year ago on relatively flat volumes.
This was our eleventh consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement in our insulation business driven largely by higher selling prices.
Operating leverage in the quarter was almost 90% primarily driven by higher pricing in the quarter with little benefit from topline demand growth.
As we have discussed on previous calls our goal is to deliver 50% operating leverage through the recovery.
As we have experienced in previous quarters our quarterly operating leverage results will be subject to volatility due to the timing of pricing shipments production and capacity actions.
Although we did not deliver volume growth for the quarter our growth was limited by challenging weather conditions and its impact on construction activity.
As the current consensus estimate for 2014 U.S.
housing starts has remained largely unchanged at just under $1.1 million U.S.
starts we expect volume growth to accelerate over the balance of the year.
The current volume environment we are experiencing is healthy and is supportive of our recently announced price increase effective in June.
Now I will ask you to turn your attention to Slide 11 for a review of our Composites business.
Sales in our Composites business for the first quarter were $477 million a 4% increase compared to the same period in 2013.
EBIT for the quarter was $27 million compared to $9 million in the same period last year due primarily to improved selling prices and operating performance.
Prices continued their sequential improvement that started in the third quarter of 2013.
In addition we have announced further pricing actions in April across a number of markets which should drive further benefits throughout the balance of 2014.
For the year we continue to expect moderate global industrial production growth.
With recovering market conditions we expect to drive pricing improvements of $20 million to $30 million during the year.
And as discussed on the fourth quarter call improved manufacturing performance and volume growth are expected to be offset by higher expenses associated with plant rebuilds.
The majority of these rebuild expenses are expected to be taken in the second half of the year with the heaviest expense in the third quarter.
Now let me now turn your attention to Slide 12.
On April 3rd we made our first quarterly dividend payment in 14 years.
These dividend payments represent added value to our shareholders and demonstrate confidence in our earnings and cash flow outlook.
In the first quarter we also repurchased 600 thousand shares of the company’s stock for $26 million under a previously announced share repurchase program and as of March 31 8 million shares remain available for repurchase under the company’s current authorization.
As we balance our priorities for the future deployment of free cash flow both dividends and stock repurchases will be important mechanisms to return capital to shareholders.
With that review of our first quarter results I now ask you to turn to Slide 13 where I will review our guidance for 2014.
For the full year 2014 the company continues to expect to deliver $500 million of adjusted EBIT based on the current outlook for an improving U.S.
housing market and moderate global growth.
Weaker than anticipated Roofing volumes in the first quarter does add additional risk to our outlook.
Now please turn to Slide 14 where I will provide other financial guidance for the year.
We expect corporate expenses to be in the range of $120 million to $130 million.
Capital spending will be about $400 million including approximately $65 million of spending associated with the construction of our new non-woven facility in Gastonia North Carolina.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about $315 million.
Our $2.1 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
As a result of our tax NOL and other tax planning initiatives we expect our 2014 cash tax rate to be approximately 10% to 12% of adjusted pre-tax earnings.
Our 2014 adjusted effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 28% to 30% of adjusted pre-tax earnings.
As discussed earlier our first quarter earnings include $74 million of income related to two significant tax items that for comparability purposes we have adjusted out of our calculation of adjusted earnings per share.
The first item relates to an uncertain tax position that was resolved in the first quarter with the conclusion of our IRS audit examination for the taxable years of 2008 through 2010.
The planning associated with this item will provide cash tax benefits for some time to come.
The second item relates to the reversal of a valuation allowance recorded in previous years against certain European net tax deferred assets.
The European valuation allowance reversal is significant as it demonstrates the progress that we have made in our European Composites business since the recession that began in 2009.
Thank you and I will now hand the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I noted at the outset of today’s call we are pleased to report that our financial performance in the first quarter of 2014 especially in our Insulation and Composites businesses has helped us maintain the momentum we generated last year.
We are delivering on the strategies we outlined for the year addressing the areas we know we must improve and establishing momentum for continued progress this year.
This progress -- this performance together with our current assessment of our markets supports our full year outlook for $500 million in adjusted EBIT.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Thierry who will lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Aaron we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Certainly.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
It is actually Alex Wong sitting in for George.
Thanks for taking the question.
Can you talk about what was the driver of the operating cash flow being down about $100 million versus a year ago? I sense that was driven by inventory so maybe you can comment on your outlook for inventories given current market trends? Good morning Alex.
I’m now going to turn that over to Michael and let him address that question.
Yes.
Thanks Mike and thanks Alex.
You are right.
If you look at working capital year-on-year it grew roughly about $100 million.
Now I will remind you that typically in the first quarter itself we consume a fair amount of working capital and particular in our two Building Materials businesses because they happened to be somewhat seasonal in large part due to the harsh winter weather.
We build little bit more inventory than usual in both of our Building Materials businesses.
Now on the one hand for our Insulation business kind of given where we expect the full year to land from a starts perspective given that on average we expect to run our assets at high utilization for a hot capacity that doesn’t give us any concern at all.
So we are going to need that insulation volumes in the second and third quarters in particular.
And then for our Roofing business certainly build a little inventory there as well but as you know manufacturing economics in the fourth and first quarter tend to be pretty attractive because some of our base costs tend to be a bit lower.
So we took the point of view our out the door sales were little bit less than what we had anticipated that from a financial perspective it made sense to build a little inventory in the first quarter that we have confidence that we are going to sell later in the year.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And just as a follow-on can you discuss what impact Roofings volume start to the year has on pricing and promotional strategies for the year? Certainly this is Mike.
Yes when we look at the normal pattern of the roofing year for us the first quarter tends to be characterized by this winter buy programs where there is discounting given to some of the channels to get them to take an inventory positions and gain placement.
Other channels and particularly channels where we tend to be a little bit more overrepresented like lumberyards or retail have a harder time taking inventories and they tend to replenish on the basis of sell-through.
So part of our slower start to the year would have been a channel mix where some of the channels where we do a little bit better had a harder time are unable to take inventories and as a result deferred some of their purchases and some of the sell-through where they expect until the second and third quarter when we would expect better sell-through and therefore better replenishment.
In the first quarter with some of the channels they do take inventory in.
The buy activity to our sense was reasonably consistent with last year.
I think in Michael’s comments he said our first quarter margin rates were good and basically flat versus last year if you adjust for fixed cost absorption.
So we are coming out of the quarter with we think good margins.
We are looking in to the second quarter where we’ve announced the price increase.
And historically I would say over the last three or four years the spring price decrease has been very helpful for us as a manufacturer to recover expectations of asphalt cost inflation.
In tends to be helpful toward distribution customers also for them to move pricing in the market so that they can improve their margins in the summer.
So we think we are right now moving into a reasonably healthy volume environment and a reasonably pricing environment on an out to door basis for our customers and we’ve got some work to do obviously to get back to our placement positions with some of those customers to take inventory.
We think we can do that in an environment that is supportive of good volumes and supportive of constructive pricing which is why we are relatively optimistic about margins and volumes for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Michael.
Just I guess a couple of questions on composite.
You had a nice quarter there a nice year-over-year profit improvement.
And your comments around the rebuilding expenses I mean essentially with that type of improvement in the first quarter and still reiterating the full year expectations would mathematically point to a very moderate year-over-year improvement for the remaining quarters.
And I just wanted to know if that’s the right way to think about it or are you just perhaps being a little conservative and if the first quarter maybe came in a little better than expected? Also with the 3 -- comments around 3Q being the heaviest expense in terms of the rebuild it would almost point to that having operating profit being down year-over-year wanted to know first thing you met that correctly? I think Michael did give some useful comments in his prepared remarks regarding the timing of the rebuilds and he did say in his comments that it is our expectation that the rebuild expenses would be heavier in the second half and probably peak in the third quarter.
So as you look at the year I think a lot of the forces that will shape the year and particularly our comparability quarter-on-quarter I you think nailed them in your question which is in the first half of the year we are comping against what were our too much weaker quarters in the first half of last year.
And so as a result we expected to get off on a comparable basis to a pretty fast start and get well ahead of last year in the first half and I think you’ve seen us do that in the first quarter.
We had decent results in the third quarter then some acceleration in the fourth quarter of last year.
So on those we are going to be a little bit tougher comps.
I think without the rebuilds we would expect the volume and pricing momentum that we are gaining to allow us to continue to come positively.
I don’t want to give specific guidance on a quarter-by-quarter basis but obviously with that headwind coming in the second half of the year and that’s having a little bit tougher comps in the second quarter I guess reasonable to think that if you see it’s getting a fair amount of head in the first half consistent with our guidance then on the upside to that is probably going to be driven by either a more robust demand environment which gives us a little bit volume or a more robust demand environment and price environment which gives us a little bit demand and also a little bit more constructive pricing in the second half.
So as we get later in the year I think it was a better understanding of where volumes and pricing are going which will give us a better sense of where we are versus the guidance we have given.
The big thing we want to make sure our investors see in the way we are shaping the year though is we do believe we will actually have a bit more momentum in the business in the second half that maybe what our reported financials would show because of the rebuild expense which is really a source of our optimism for why we think 2014 is the year that really builds into 2015 and that’s where the underpin the confidence I gave in my comments where I said we are really beginning to see the improvements in both composite and insulation that gets our business back performing at levels we like.
Great.
And I appreciate that Mike.
And I guess just also on composites the $12 million restructuring or severance charges in terms of headcount would we expect -- I mean is it reasonable to expect kind of a similar ongoing cost savings from those actions? I mean there is typically thinking about payback periods in 1 to 2 year timeframe.
And is that also backed into your -- I mean was that something that was originally anticipated in terms of your ‘14 guidance outlook or is that something that might benefit the company in ’15?  Yes.
So I think your kind of high level estimate that that tends to be about a one for one that each dollar of severance and restructuring expense tends to produce about a $1 of cost savings.
And that’s a decent rule of thumb for Owens Corning in general and for composite business specifically.
We did contemplate coming into the year that we had some cost actions that we feel we needed to take in the business mostly because of systems improvements and efficiencies that wade in our manufacturing operations just allowing us to reduce our headcount a bit and get the cost of the business a little bit lower fixed cost little bit lower breakeven.
It is included in our guidance.
And having said that we don’t actually anticipate a significant amount of savings from these actions this year whether the actions will be taken through the year and then on an annual basis I think you will see much more of those savings in 2015.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my questions today.
First on composites could you give a little bit more color on pricing particularly in Europe definitely getting better feedbacks from there? And maybe dig a little bit more into how this has changed versus last year.
And then also touching again in the Chinese market and what are you seeing in terms of pricing trends today versus last year? Happy to do that.
Thank you for the question.
Michael said in this comments that this is -- the first quarter this year represents the third consecutive quarter that we’ve shown price improvement in deposits.
Really prices declined a bit in the first quarter of last year we actually reversed the decline and kind of got back to zero -- excuse me got back to zero in the second quarter of last year.
And then since then we have been on the positive side of price.
So we’re really now kind of coming up on a year where we have been in a more positive price environment than before.
So we are starting to gain some confidence and track record on the pricing side and composites that our assessment of the marketplace our assessment of our competitive positions and our need for price improvement in order to impact our margins is in fact the correct strategy for the business.
A lot of what we are seeing in the first quarter of composites would come from two things.
It’s the carryover effect of some of the pricing we gained in market base pricing in the second half of 2013 as well as the benefits that we got in our year end price negotiations and some of our contractual business.
So we would expect both of those pieces of price improvement to carry through all three quarter of this year that remain.
In addition we did have some price announcements by Owens Corning on a regional basis on more kind of market pricing so not contract pricing but more of the day to day pricing.
We had an announcement in the first quarter in China India and Brazil and are working hard in those areas of the world to try to affect the pricing and then recently have announced for both North America and Russia price increases.
So we are seeing the opportunity to try to move our pricing in the market as we think utilizations go up and demand supports better pricing.
You asked specifically about China we have seen some competitive activity in China then also has supported pricing at the very low end of the market.
There are some applications in China where we typically don't have a lot of market share or compete in terms of lot of volume that are priced well below.
I guess we would consider to be kind of a global average price.
We did see in the first quarter of this year some price activities that suggested that part of the market is beginning to move up in terms of where those prices are.
We tend to think of the market as those prices move up that will start to influence the export economics of the Chinese producers it will start to impact on the economics of them participating in other markets.
As the low end becomes more attractive we’d expect that to start to push our pricing in some of the other markets where we see change in competition.
So we’re cautiously optimistic that step-by-step we’re starting to see the kind of price environment that supports very good returns in our deposit business.
So there is no negative pricing impact from the new Egypt plant in Europe? No I think we’ve seen some Egyptian volume coming out of the [Ducci] (ph) plant in Egypt.
I think that's probably a bit of a headwind for Europe.
I think a little bit of a tailwind in Europe has been that demand in Europe has probably been a little bit stronger to the second half of last year and the first half of this year than we had previously expected.
So Europe is in a little bit better shape and maybe a little bit better able to absorb some of that production.
The flipside is [Ducci] (ph) who is our competitor in both China and now with the plant in Egypt.
We've seen actions in China in terms of inventory reductions and capacity curtailment that have balanced off of that capacity expansion in Egypt.
So in total we don't actually see a lot of capacity expansion from that particular competitor in 2014.
Thanks.
And Mike my second question is on roofing.
Obviously Q1 was a tough time but we did get some feedback that there was a more aggressive competitor in the market as the quarter progressed.
How do you balance remaining competitive and when I say competitive essentially maintaining your market share but also at the same time maintaining margins while attempting to push through a price increase in the market? I mean it’s a challenging balance.
I mean I think you've summarized kind of how the mechanisms of the roofing market in the first quarter work.
And you know our long-term view and our annual view is that our market share has been relatively stable over the last four or five years.
And that our goal coming into each year has to pretty much move our volume position with the market.
So we have not been on an aggressive market share accumulation campaign but we also certainly have no interest in allowing our position to be diminished from the market.
So we run a balancing act of how do we make sure we're getting enough value for our products and protect our margin.
We’re also making sure that we protect our position in the marketplace.
I think when you saw -- you know we have to look at this kind of -- channel-by-channel we have to look at this geography-by-geography.
So there’s a lot of moving pieces in the business.
And we talked about that last year in the third quarter.
And you saw a decent bounce back for us in the fourth quarter of last year.
Our view is that in the first quarter if you ship too much volume at too low of a price as we did in 2012 we think many of our competitors did in 2012 you can actually create an environment where there is just not enough volume left and aren't enough levers left for you to try to get to your annual goals.
We think as we sit here today there might have been market conditions in the first quarter where we didn't meet pricing.
That might have allowed us to get some more volume as we now head into a market environment where there has been better out the door sales.
The price environment should be improving.
There are some asphalt costs that are improving which should put some inflationary pressures on us as a manufacturer which should incentivize us to try to get a better price environment that we've got enough levers and enough things available to us to go back and recover our position in the marketplace through the next three quarters while at the same time maintaining margins.
But it is going to be the same kind of balancing act through the course of 2014 as it was through 2013.
And we generally felt like we had a pretty good outcome last year.
Great.
Thanks for answering my questions.
(Operator Instructions) Operator there are no questions in the queue because we had received information that there were additional questions out there.
We’re just having a technical issue right now.
So just hang on for a moment here.
Okay.
We will do our best here.
I do apologize.
We will be just another moment and we will get this corrected here for you.
Those of you who are still on the call.
This is the management team.
We have received words that there was a technical issue that the queue is being reloaded and we’re still here ready to answer the questions.
So once we can get the telephonics worked out we’ll get back to the Q&amp;A.
Aaron this is Thierry.
Can you give us a feel for how much longer do you think this will take? I’m here right now.
So we’re just going to go ahead and we will get this started back up here for you.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
No problem.
So our next question comes from the line of Phillip Ng from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Can you give us a sense or could you just quantify how roofing and insulation demand is tracking in April and what are you seeing from an order pattern standpoint in May? Okay.
Let me start with -- let me start with insulation.
Clearly as the weather changed through most of the country kind of the latter part of March and then into early April we did see a change in our order book.
And that obviously a much shorter supply chain for us.
So particularly in the residential side of the business it’s not uncommon for us to get an order on a Monday ship it by the end of the week and have it be going into our house the following week.
So getting a thaw and getting people back on our construction sites we do think there was a longer lag between the timing of our housing start and when the insulation would have gone in.
Okay.
We do estimate that at 90 days.
But in fact that was probably longer which affected demand in the first quarter as well as the weather affected the timing of starts which pushed those out a bit and could affect overall starts for the year.
So we’ve definitely seen a movement in our insulation book.
In the roofing side I think that for the channels that we tend to replenish based on their sell-through.
We’ve seen a progression from January February March April that makes good sense to us that we would track their sales and therefore we're tracking our shipments to them.
On the distribution side given the inventory that went in in the first quarter under the winter buys the first couple of weeks or the month of April tends to be pretty quiet for us and difficult to judge.
And obviously our teams are out there pretty aggressively right now trying to make sure that we understand where that market is and what volume opportunity that will create for us here in the second quarter.
Got you.
That’s very helpful.
In terms of the guidance for the full year you provide some good color on how you think about demand.
Within that guidance are you baking in your incremental price increases for installation of roofing and composites that you just talked about in this call? I was going to put broad color against our guidance.
It steps all the way back to kind of what we said in the fourth quarter.
We made a lot of progress in 2013 versus 2012 where roofing was a bit in the turn-around year.
Roofing had not a great 2012 and therefore had a big positive comp in 2013 that helped us with then composites maybe a little bit more sideways in an insulation comping positively.
Coming off of the good year in roofing in 2013 we really thought that the next leg of growth in earning for us was going to be more roofing continuing to perform at a high level with a lot of earnings growth not been driven by the composites recovery and pricing cycle and then the insulation operating leverage and the pricing cycle.
I certainly think that two of the three pieces of that guidance are clearly evidence in our first quarter.
So we’re seeing the insulation pricing cycle on operating leverage get that business back to profitability.
We’re still no where near where we want to be or need to be in that business but we have had 11 consecutive quarter of improvement.
And we’re not making money every quarter and we certainly would expect that with better pricing and good volumes that we would carry momentum through this year that will help us to get to the $500 million guidance we’ve provided as well as build momentum going into next year.
Okay.
Same thing in composites probably more of a positive first half comp story than second half but momentum building because of some of the headwinds associated with our rebuilds depending on where volumes and pricing is in the second half whether or not that creates upside or whether we see most of that upside in 2015.
I think we’re going to have to see the year progress.
We did say in our prepared remarks today that the start of year in roofing creates some risk to our guidance related to that business and therefore to our overall guidance.
Not too much on the margin side but on the volume side.
And then depending how the next couple of quarters play out as we try to make sure that our position in the market tracks the overall market whether that has impact on the business outlook in terms of volume margin and something we’re going to see.
But we certainly see enough positive factors today in terms of expectations of demand how the harsh winter could have had an impact on roofs that need to be re-roofed a better economics in homes so that more people and more equity in the houses.
Some of the things that would help re-roof demand some of the things that could help new construction.
We’ve got enough helps there that we certainly expected the goals that we set for I think at the beginning of the year reasonable.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
All right.
Thanks.
The next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just back to composites on the rebuild.
Will those be your rebuilds will those be done by the end of this calendar year and what is your sense on the rebuilds in China.
How much longer those are going to persist? Okay.
Our current plan is that the rebuild activity we laid out which is about 20% of our productive capacity this year being rebuild.
We characterize the business historically as about -- that melters last about 10 years.
So you would expect to rebuild about 10% of your capacity or 10% of your melters every year.
So this is about twice the normal load level which is why it stands out in terms of being an earnings issue otherwise you tend to comp 10% every year and its straight line through the business.
We currently are planning to complete all the activity this year.
We can affect the timing of rebuilds based on how the melters currently operating as the melter gets laid in its life.
It becomes more difficult to operate in terms of efficiencies and also consumes more energy because you need to do some things in order to cool it down.
So the production economics tend to get a little bit worst the old melter gets.
The flipside of that is we have very strong demand sometimes we will limp the melter along a little bit longer than we had expected in our original plan because we see market opportunity and don’t want to take that melter down.
So we continue to monitor that based on what we’ve seen through the first quarter.
Our expectation is that rebuild plan we have for this year is the rebuild plan we’ll execute and as a result that will mostly be on the rearview mirror for us by the end of 2014 and will give us positive comp in 2015.
As it relates to China we don’t have any competitive analysis that would cause us to believe that the rebuild cycle for our competitors and the rebuild impact on the business for our competitors is any different than what we experienced that as their melter get probably into that 8 to 12 year time cycle.
They’re going to need to be rebuilt similar to ours.
We know when capacity was built in China.
We know therefore when the melters hit that kind of magic period of time of 10 years plus or minus where they’re going to need a rebuild.
And so it's really just kind of a straight aging of the portfolio that we know there was dramatic capacity expansion in China kind of in the 2003 to 2009 time frame which is now entering into the 2013 to 2019 time window.
So we expect that the team of capacity loss in China related to rebuilds capital use in China related to rebuilds and therefore more pressure on cash flow and more pressure on capital formation for capacity expansion.
So that’s with us not really for the next couple of years but that’s going to be with us really through the latter part of the decade of the 2010.
Your rebuild activity at Owens-Corning in ‘15 will it be incrementally lower than that 10% number? No not lower than the 10%.
So it will be incremental with lower than 2014 but we’ll return back to a more normal level of rebuild in 2015.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next question comes from the line of Will Randow from Citi.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
This is actually Scott Schrier in for Will today.
Hi Scott.
I wanted to ask again a little bit more on the insulation and given your strong year-over-year performance in 1Q ‘14 I was assuming that some of that would be attributed to an increase in spec inventory on the builders.
And then with that being said given the new home sales print number that came out today and particularly we got new housing starts that came out last week.
How does that impact your outlook for insulation and the acceleration going through as we get into April and May? Okay.
We kind of have two things we’re working our way through in insulation from the demand side.
So let me kind of frame those two issues for you.
One is the housing starts that have been announced the stuff that was announced in the fourth quarter of last year and what we have announced in -- what has been announced by the industry in the first quarter this year.
We tend to model our business by taking those housing starts wagging them for 90 days and saying that’s about when we would expect to see the demand.
And in the first quarter our demand numbers didn't track exactly with a 90 day lag off of the fourth quarter housing starts.
And we think that’s pretty explainable by weather.
It is within the range of all the amount of shortfall that some extension of that cycle would explain why our volume growth in the first quarter was a quite robust.
So we would say some of those houses that were announced as housing starts in the fourth quarter last year are still out there waiting to be insulated in the second quarter which will give us a bit of a demand kick where that demand was deferred or delayed out of the first quarter into the second but is already on the ground as the housing start.
We also know that the housing start numbers in the first quarter probably weren’t quite as robust as maybe with some of the estimates had been coming into the year.
And that will impact the amount of second quarter volume we see and that would be modeled into our guidance.
Our general view on housing is that we obviously read everything’s that written.
Most of the economists and analysts who study housing continue to believe that we’re going see good growth in new construction through the balance of 2014.
We would expect not necessarily in exhilaration of new construction to make up for a little bit of the weakness in the first quarter but that the growth in housing new construction through 2014 is going to come off a starting point of where the industry was kind of in the January February March timeline which puts on a parallel line which is a little bit below where the initial forecast were at the beginning of the year.
We obviously are benefiting from coded option.
We talked about that in the past.
So we do see increasing demand per unit and some of those things are also helping us in terms of our demand forecasting.
So we look at the whole picture of housing and feel pretty comfortable where it is.
I’d say probably one last optimistic note maybe for us would be obviously we are much more new construction volume driven than new construction price driven in terms of the price of the home.
We did see a little bit of a slowdown in home price appreciation which addresses hopefully some of the potentially growing affordability issues in housing.
And if we can keep housing affordable there's enough demand out there.
We think from demographic and arousal formation to give us a nice long cycle of new construction and benefit that in our insulation business for good period.
Great.
That's really helpful.
And then I wanted to switch over and talk about the cash flow.
So I know it was touched upon before how you had build up an inventory and you said the cash flow.
Does that impact how you're looking at share repurchases going forward in the second quarter? No I wouldn’t say it does.
I mean we’ve talked in the past that forever on a day Owens-Corning has a kind of used the cash in the first half and then generated all of our free cash flow in the second half both in terms of recovering the cash we’ve invested in the business in the first half plus the free cash flow generation.
So we see generally a very big shift in our balance sheet as we move through the summer as the seasonality particularly in our building materials business works its way through.
I think during some pretty choppy days 2009 2010 when housing was still falling when the financial markets were kind of bubbling around a bit when our operating results weren’t quite as strong.
We looked at some of our credit statistics et cetera and felt like we wanted to be disciplined in our share repurchase and tried to time that up with the actual availability of free cash flow.
I think now that we've seen coming out of the end of last year better operating results.
I think our credit statistics are better certainly more confidence in our Composites business more confidence in our Insulation business.
So that we're not quite as dependent on just Roofing profitability for balance sheet management point of view.
We've shown a little bit more willingness even in the times of the year that our cash lean to use the balance sheet a bit to buy shares that we think the share price that we can buy those at is a good number.
And as we look at not so much 2014 but as we look through 2014 to 2015 2016 and imagine in Owens Corning with very very strong Insulations results strong Composites results and still great Roofing results.
It's not hard for us at these kinds of share prices to say we can maybe do some things for our investors that we buy some shares out of our cash flow for the year.
Even at the time we buy that’s not necessarily free cash flow coming out of the business.
Hey Aaron.
This is Thierry.
We have time for one more set of questions.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Yeah let me ask a question on Roofing and then a question on Insulation.
I know that there has been a lot said on Roofing and you’ve talked about the importance of channel mix and indicated that the risk to your guidance it is really more on the volume side than the margin.
I just wanted to put that against what we understand happened in 1Q which is that the in the states where you have plants it seems to us that the Roofing industry shipments were down about 5.5% and your inventories were up $100 million sequentially which I am going to assume is mostly Roofing because it is hard to store large quantities of Insulation.
And we also heard I think it was mentioned that one of your bigger competitors outsold industry volumes by getting more aggressive on price in the quarter.
So I'm just trying to understand I want to make sure that we're hearing this correctly that the share you obviously lost in the first quarter that your goal is not necessarily to gain that back through promotional activity if that's what's necessary but rather that you believe this is simply an issue of timing related to the channels which you are dominant in.
And so it is really not an issue of promotional actions that is creating the risk in the outlook for this year.
Is that correct? Let me try to frame the issue or the opportunity from where we said.
I think I largely agree with your comments but I want to blanket agree with your comments because I'm not sure that they are exactly what we've said.
What we've said is that the industry was down kind of mid-single-digits for the quarter.
Our revenue was down about 18%.
So clearly there was a significant difference between the volumes that we shipped and the volume shipped in the industry.
We think about half of that is pure timing base on the channels in which we participate that some of the channels that replenish as they sell through couldn't take product in the first quarter.
We know who those customers are.
We know how that business works.
We're expecting that that business will pick up as we work our away through the remainder of the year.
And as their business picks up we'll catch up some of the shipments that they weren’t be able to take from us in the first quarter because they weren’t selling out the door but that there is nothing in the marketplace that would cause us to believe that there out the door sales are going to be dramatically different than our expectations at the beginning of the year.
The other half we would say based on our estimates it was probably related to promotional activity and some of our competitors to be more aggressive.
At this time of the year that's really just inventory replacements.
What really over the long-term determines market share is what homeowners want to buy what contractors want to buy what builders want to buy and what products end up going on roofs? We don't see anything in the first quarter that caused us to believe that our products aren’t any more desired in the end-use markets that our customers are any less motivated to want to sell our products.
Now we're going to have to get it right.
Get the economics right that they can buy and resell our product and make money.
And if there are some very specific geographies or various specific instances where we're not in the right spot to be able to do that than obviously that's going to be a sales issue for us to address and figure out.
But broadly we think that volumes in the first quarter in those channels can be made up through the year through good salesman ship and then also just more out the door sales.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then the second question relates to Insulation incrementals ex- Thermafiber.
So you mentioned you had 90% incrementals in the quarter.
But if we adjust the numbers for roughly $17 million in price and $13 million in sales from Thermafiber I'm going to assume maybe $1 million to $2 million in profit from Thermafiber.
This means that your EBIT improved about $3 million to $4 million on $5 million decline in volume.
So there was either some kind of temporary benefit from something or you had significant improvement in efficiency which might be longer lasting? Am I thinking about that right and can you help me understand maybe where the very strong results operationally came from? Well Michael try to speak that issue in his prepared remarks and it's a very important issue for us and we try to take this on when our operating leverage is lower than 50% and then also make sure that we take out when our operating leverage is above 50%.
You're in fact correct which is if you adjust out Thermafiber revenue the overall growth of the Insulation segment -- the Insulation business would be less than what we posted and as a result since Thermafiber not producing that kind of operating leverage because it's basically a highly utilized profitable asset today.
Our operating leverage would be even higher than the 90% or 85% operating leverage we reported today approaching 100%.
We had a lot of nice price I think we disclose that pretty clearly in our 10-Q.
I would tell you most of that price or lot of that price was carried over the first quarter price environment because demand was a little bit weak was a little bit choppier.
So as we move forward here into the second quarter with the price increased we've announced we do want to get back on path on improving pricing in the marketplace for ourselves and for our customers.
But what we did see is on the operational side some cost improvements but also you get into issues associated with the timing of when we turn assets on and off inventory build how cost gets absorbed in the inventory.
Michael talk a little bit about the fact that we did have in inventory build in insulation in the first quarter which would have absorbs in costs in that would help us in operating leverage.
So I wouldn't read too much into the first quarter operating leverage beside it’s consistent with our views through this cycle that we should be able to produce 50% operating leverage.
I guess said differently that’s likely means there will be another quarter some place along the line where we don't have all those good guide and we're very -- operating leverage would drop a little bit below 50%.
But our goal in total is still intact and we deliver nicely against that guidance.
Great.
Thanks very much Mike.
And there are no further questions in the queue.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Aaron.
Yes.
This is Thierry.
We'd like to close the call with the few remarks from Mike Thaman.
Okay.
Certainly go ahead.
Okay.
Hopefully everyone is still on the call.
I apologize for the blank spot we had in the call where we had some telephone issues.
Obviously we will come out of this meeting immediately and go look for corrective action to make sure that doesn't happen on our next call but I'm sure we appreciate all of your patience on sticking with us and appreciate all the good questions.
I think we in our prepared remarks and then also in the Q&amp;A had an opportunity to give you a good summary of how we feel about the quarter.
Obviously the highlights of the quarter for us would be the continued progress we're seeing in Insulation and Composite side.
I characterized that as we're increasingly beginning to see those two businesses developed into the kind of performance we know they can be.
Insulation obviously is coming out of four or five years of very very challenge in losses into a year of profitability in 2013 now into a core first quarter profitability in 2014 which certainly speaks to continued improvements through the year and we have big expectations for that business can do through a new construction recovery here in the U.S.
Composite obviously having some challenges late in ‘12 coming into the first half of ‘13 showing some positive signs in the second half of ‘13 and now I think following through on that with good pricing and good results and good operating leverage in that business.
So those two businesses now giving us confidence through ‘14 and beyond that we really have a great outlook for the improvement of our big glass business.
Roofing obviously a little bit choppier message for the quarter and that we're very very happy with our margin performance trailed market a bit from a volume point of view left ourselves on a year-to-go basis I think at fair amount of time and opportunity to use the levers at our disposal to get that business absolutely back on track on where we measure to which is tracking the market in terms of volumes and producing great margins.
With that as our outlook we feel confident that $500 million of adjusted EBIT which is our guidance for the year continues to be a good target for the company and we look forward to talking to you on our second quarter call and give you an update on the progress we made.
Thanks again for your patience for today's call.
We look forward to talking again soon.
Okay.
And this concludes today’s call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Owens Corning Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions].
After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Thierry Denis Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you taking the time to join us for today’s conference call in a review of our business results for the second quarter of 2014.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning’s Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a Form 10-Q that detailed our financial results for our second quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we’ve prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the quarter.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the slides on our website owenscorning.com.
We have a link on the homepage and a link on the Investor section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference to slide two before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today’s presentation and remarks include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
These statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause to differ materially and we undertake no obligation to update these statements beyond what is required under applicable securities laws.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent risks and uncertainties affecting such forward-looking statements.
Second this presentation in today’s prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release on www.owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period to period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the second quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 29% in line with our anticipated annual effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2014.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we would begin on slide four.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who would be followed by Michael McMurray.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our second quarter results.
Today Owens Corning reported consolidated revenue in the quarter of 1.36 billion flat with the same period a year ago.
The company 96 million in adjusted EBIT for the quarter down from 124 million last year.
Adjusted earnings were 45 million down from 68 million one year ago.
The company’s financial performance for the quarter reflect continued year-over-year improvement in both insulation and composites.
The improvement in these two businesses was in line with our expectations for the first half of the year.
Roofing volumes underperformed the market in the second quarter and the volume weakness through the first half of the year resulted in updated full year guidance that we issued in June.
At the outset of the year we discussed a number of expectations for sustained or improved performance across our businesses over 2013.
Now I will review our performance against those expectations starting with safety.
As is the case each year we said that we would continue to make progress toward the goal of creating an injury free workplace.
We continue to perform at a very high level of safety with recordable incentive rate of 0.5 for the six months ending in June.
This is consistent with our rate in the same period a year ago.
Year-to-date we have greatly reduced the severity of our injuries and our goal to achieve and maintain injury free workplaces across our global network.
At insulation we said we should continue to realize the benefit from the growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
Insulation delivered 14 million more in EBIT in the second quarter versus the last year driven primarily by better pricing and volume growth.
The insulation business also improved EBIT for the 12th consecutive quarter.
In the first half the business delivered operating leverage of 63%.
This is consistent with our guidance of 50% operating leverage through the recovery.
In composites we said we expect improving market conditions and pricing to drive EBIT growth with improved manufacturing performance and higher volumes expected to offset higher rebuild cost and cost inflation.
Second quarter composite EBIT was 37 million an increase of 5 million over the same period of last year.
I’m pleased with the progress in composites.
Our operating performance has been very good and market conditions have been supportive of both volume growth and improved pricing.
We realized $10 million price improvement compared with the second quarter 2013.
In addition we’re seeing stronger volumes in glass reinforcements in the second quarter with second quarter growth outpacing first quarter.
In roofing we ended the year with expectations well above our current outlook.
In our June guidance update we said that first half volumes could be as much as 20% lower than the same period in 2013.
Roofing volumes in the first half were down slightly less than 20%.
Our share of the market improved in the second quarter versus the first quarter but was below our share in the second quarter of 2013.
As a result our volumes underperformed in the market for the second consecutive quarter.
Revenue in this business dropped 14% year-over-year and EBIT margins were 14% for the quarter on lower volume leverage lower prices and higher asphalt costs.
Before I move to our outlook for the business we have one other achievement in the quarter that I’d like to note.
We released our 2013 sustainability report demonstrating good progress toward achieving our 2020 environmental footprint goals.
Highlights of the report included commissioning the largest onsite solar energy system in the state of New York in our Delmar Insulation plant recycling 1 million tons or 10% of all the asphalt shingles in North America and doubling the freight miles that were driven our natural gas in Owens Corning.
These sustainability initiatives provide economic benefit in addition to environmental benefits.
Now let me review our expectations for the remainder of 2014.
We expect that the insulation business to continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing including our price increase and operating leverage.
We continue to focus on improving insulation prices as we return the business to historical levels of profitability.
The composites business is benefitting from stable global economic growth improved operating performance and pricing.
We expect pricing to be the primary driver of either growth in 2013.
Based on year-to-date performance we expect that the full year price improvement for the business will likely be at the top-end of the previously communicated range of 20 million to 30 million.
The roofing market was down for the first two quarters of the year.
For the full year we now believe that the market will be flat to slightly down.
Our goal for the second half will be to restore our share of the market to historical levels so they more closely track the market.
We are obviously disappointed with our first half performance in roofing.
Given the market conditions mid-teen margins appear to be the near-term reality.
We believe that we have the right action plan to improve our second half volume performance and continue to demonstrate price and margin discipline.
In the near-term the business will likely perform at margin levels below those we enjoyed over the past five years.
The continued momentum in our insulation and composites businesses is expected to more than offset the weaker financial performance in the roofing business and we will generate earnings growth for full year 2014.
With that I’ll now turn it over to Michael who will review further details of our business and corporate performance.
I’ll then return to recap and open the call up for questions.
Michael? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier in the second quarter our insulation and composites businesses continue to demonstrate year-over-year improvement.
The momentum and earnings growth in these two businesses is expected to more than offset the weaker financial performance in our roofing business.
Now let’s start on slide five which summarizes our key financial data for the quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today’s press release and the Form 10-Q.
We reported second quarter 2014 consolidated net sales of 1.36 billion which were largely flat with sales reported for the same period in 2013.
In our roofing business net sales were down 14% primarily on lower sales volumes.
Net sales for insulation business were up 8% primarily on increased selling prices.
Lastly net sales in our composites business were up 7% due primarily to higher sales volumes and increased selling prices.
In a moment I’ll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period to period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the second quarter of 2014 was 96 million compared to 124 million in the same period one year ago.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 2014 were $45 million or $0.38 per diluted share compared to $68 million or $$0.56 per diluted share in 2013.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was 78 million and in line with our prior year.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were 77 million including the net effect of alloy purchases and sales.
Now on slide six let me reconcile our 2014 second quarter adjusted EBIT of 96 million to our reported EBIT of 73 million.
In the second quarter we entered into an agreement to sell our European Masonry products business which resulted in $19 million impairment charge that we have adjusted out of earnings.
We expect this transaction to close in the third quarter of 2014.
We have also adjusted (inaudible) cost New Jersey roofing facility that was damaged as a result of super storm Sandy as discussed in previous calls.
We do not expect any further charges related to this project.
Also within the quarter we received the final payment of 44 million related to the sale of our U.S.
Masonry products business to industries which closed in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This payment had no impact on earnings.
Now please turn to slide seven and I will provide a high level review of our adjusted EBIT performance compared to second quarter of 2014 with the same period one year ago.
Adjusted EBIT decreased 28 million.
The 14 million improvement in our insulation business and 5 million improvement in our composites business were more than offset by 54 million decline in our roofing business.
General corporate expenses were 7 million lower versus the prior year primarily due to a reduction on a performance based compensation expense and strong cost controls.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to slide eight where we provide a more detailed review of our businesses starting with building materials.
For the second quarter building materials net sales were 884 million a 4% decrease compared to the prior year.
Building materials delivered 80 million in EBIT down from 120 million for the same period in 2013.
Slide nine provides an overview of our roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were 437 million a 14% decrease compared with the same period a year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was 62 million down 54 million compared to the same period in 2013.
The declines in revenue and EBIT were primarily driven by lower sales volumes along with slightly lower selling prices.
EBIT margins for the quarter and we were disappointed with the performance of our roofing business for the first half of 2014.
We estimate that industry shipments were down low to mid single digits year-over-year.
The roofing channel that generally replenished on a sell through basis and where we have higher exposure continue to extract below the market during the quarter.
In addition our share replacement within distribution channels had impacted early in the second quarter from late first quarter buy activity that shipped in the second quarter.
As indicated on the first quarter call we did not participate in late first quarter discounting.
We previously expected the U.S.
asphalt shingle market to grow in 2014 primarily driven by growth in new construction activity and possibly some growth in re-roof.
Given the market performance on a year-to-date basis we now expect the full year market in 2014 will be flat to slightly down.
This should result in second half market being slightly up to flat compared to the prior year.
We are working through to improve our share appointment and it is our goal to see our volumes more closely tracked to market in the second half of the year.
Now slide 10 provides a summary of our installation business.
Sales for the quarter in insulation are 447 million were up 8% over the same period a year ago and higher selling prices and the acquisition of thermal fiber.
Slightly higher sales volumes were offset by unfavorable mix.
The business delivered EBIT of 80 million in the second quarter compared to 4 million in the same period one year ago primarily on higher selling prices partially offset by inflation.
This was our 12th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement in our insulation group.
And we have experienced in previous quarters our operating leverage results will be subject to volatility growth was limited to challenging weather conditions in the first four months of the year and its impact on construction activity.
2014 U.S.
housing starts just above 1 million units.
We continue to be very focused on improving pricing in our insulation business.
Even though market conditions earlier in the year were less supportive of price actions.
The U.S.
residential business took further action midyear and I’m pleased to report that we have made good progress.
Looking forward the insulation business should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and strong operating leverage.
Now I ask you to turn your attention to slide 11 for a review of our composites business.
Net sales in our composites business for the quarter were 505 million a 7% increase compared to the same period in 2013.
The increase in revenue were driven by higher sales volume increased selling prices favorable customer mix and the impact of foreign exchange translation.
Prices continued the sequential improvement that started in the third quarter of 2013 and we are seeing a healthy volume environment as second quarter demand growth outpaced the first quarter.
EBIT for the quarter was 37 million compared to 32 million in the same period last year and primarily to improve selling prices that were partially offset by higher expenses associated with plant rebuilts.
In composites this was our fourth consecutive quarter of year-on-year EBIT improvement driven primarily by improved operating performance and pricing.
For the year we continue to expect moderate global industrial production growth.
Based on our year-to-date performance we expect pricing to be at the high end of the previously communicated 20 million to 30 million range.
As discussed on previous call improved manufacturing performance and volume growth are expected to be offset their higher expenses associated with plant rebuilds and inflation.
Now I thought it might be helpful to provide a bit more visibility into plant rebuild expense for 2014.
As a reminder we’ll complete rebuild on melters that represent roughly 20% of our global capacity in 2014.
This represents about two times typical rebuild activity.
We expect that plant rebuild expense will be roughly 30 million higher in 2014 versus the previous year.
Rebuild expenses for the first half were about 10 million higher for the same period in 2013 and we were able to grow our year-to-date adjusted EBIT in the business by 23 million.
Plant rebuild expense in the second half are expected to be about 20 million higher than in the same period one year ago with the majority of the expense taking place in the third quarter.
We expect the momentum we have established in the first half were more than offset these headwinds in the second half.
Now let me turn your attention to slide 12.
In June our Board of Directors approved our second quarterly dividend payment to be made on July 29 2014.
The dividend represents added value to our shareholders and demonstrates confidence in our earnings and free cash flow outlook.
In the second quarter we also repurchased 300 000 shares of the company’s stock for 12 million under a previously announced share repurchase program and as of June 30 2014 7.7 million shares remained available for purchase under the company’s current authorization.
As we balance our priorities for the future deployment of free cash flow both dividends and stock repurchases will be important mechanisms to return capital to shareholders.
With that review of our second quarter results I now should turn to slide 13 where I’ll review our guidance for 2014.
We continue to expect that our full year adjusted EBIT will be greater than the previous year even though our results for the first half of 2014 failed the previous year by 23 million.
The continued momentum in insulation and composites and the actions that we are taking in roofing to drive better volume performance gives us confidence in delivering this expectation.
Now please turn to slide 14 where I’ll provide other financial guidance for the year.
We expect corporate expenses to be in the range of 100 million to 110 million.
This represents a 20 million cost reduction versus our previous guidance due to strong cost controls and lower performance based compensation for the remainder of 2014.
Capital spending guidance for 2014 has been reduced 30 million and is now expected to be about 370 million including approximately 65 million of spending associated with the construction of our new non-weldings facility in Gastonia North Carolina.
Depreciation amortization expense is expected to be about 315 million.
Our 2.1 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
As a result of our tax NOL and other tax planning initiatives we expect our 2014 cash tax rate to be approximately 10% to 12% of adjusted pre-tax earnings.
Our 2014 adjusted effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 28% to 30% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Thank you.
I’ll now hand the call back to Mike.
Mike? Thank you Michael.
As I noted at the outset of today’s call the company’s financial performance for the quarter reflect continued year-over-year improvement in insulation and composites.
Roofing volumes were down for the first half of the year.
We believe we have the right action plan to improve our second half volume performance in this business and continue to demonstrate price and margin discipline.
The continued momentum in our insulation and composites business is expected to more than offset the weaker financial performance in our roofing business and generate earnings growth for the full year 2014.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Thierry who’ll liaison the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Emily we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much guys.
I just wanted to touch on the roofing business a little bit.
You talked about the fact that you lost this much market share in 2Q as you had in 1Q.
It seems to me that that from what we are hearing out in the marketplace that the pricing discipline in the industry that the industry enjoyed let’s say a couple of year ago seems to have been kind of breaking down not just in terms of manufacturers having to discount but also distributors getting more competitive with one another.
And I’m just curious if you could give us some color/commentary on what you’re seeing in that regard in terms – do you believe that the discipline in the industry is going to a period here where there is a bit of breakdown in discipline of the distributor channel retail as well as the manufacturers? Yeah Stephen it’s Mike.
It’s a very good question and there is no doubt that what we’re seeing in our reported results and what we’re seeing in our business that it’s a more competitive environment out there today.
If you look at kind of how we played through the first half of the year Michael talked in his prepared remarks about some of the buy activities at the end of the first quarter that we decided not to participate in.
We were looking at end of the first quarter going into the earlier part of the second quarter there was an April price increase out there.
I think we were very focused on price discipline and trying to affect margin improvement from the first quarter second quarter based on pricing.
Obviously that strategy hasn’t played out for us and it impacted first quarter volumes and then some of the deals that were done at the end of the first quarter continued to ship in the second quarter.
So that also impacted second quarter volumes.
If you look at our second quarter margins they’re not what we’re grow accustomed to but we still our margins in the mid teens.
So still there is a fair amount of profitability in the industry for shingle manufacturers and I think of that that both as good news bad news story.
It’s good news because we are still quite profitable but also gives some competitors and also some of the manufacturers the ability to work with pricing as a way to attempting a market share.
I think as we look at it today we had historically given our guidance for the business as being mid teens or better when we arrived at that guidance it was based on some historical analysis with the performance of our business and the things that we’ve done to try to improve the structural cost position and product lines.
It is also based on some competitive analysis kind of the marginal economics of the different players in the industry and how their economics work in terms of trying to gain share and take volume at the expense of price.
And both of those analyses kind of brought us to the conclusion that when our business is operating in the mid teens it doesn’t make a lot of sense based on marginal economics in the industry for some of our competitors to be chasing more market share.
So we don’t necessarily see that it should a lot more impact on margins in our business as we roll forward but I think that’s something that remains to be seen.
I think this price environment and we hear from a number of our distribution customers is not working well for distribution.
I think the market worked much better for distribution when there was some winter buy activity in the winter they could load in some low cost inventory and then we were in a rising price environment through the year.
That tended to give them support they needed to be able to manage pricing in the marketplace.
I think some of the manufacturer pricing actions and some of the distribution pricing actions have broken that down as well for the distributors.
So it’s a bit more difficult market right now and I think it’s going to need to sort itself out which is why I said in my comments I think in the near term as we look into the second half of the year we don’t see the catalyst that kind of moves us out of the mid teens margins environment.
We do see some nice underlying trends in the market and some things that we think we can do with our business that help us get back to our historical market share levels without disrupting the market unnecessarily.
We think that’s really more related to not participating in the buys in the first half but really being more competitive in pricing at market prices in the second half should get us back to our market position which is what we’ve enjoyed historically.
So we’re working our way through this.
But we think we’re at margin level today that at least based on our current understanding of the market we should be able to sustain.
Yeah that’s very helpful.
I appreciate that.
And I’m sure there would be a lot of questions on roofing so let me just shift over to insulation for a minute.
You saw even improvement about 18 million and you made a comment – I think there was commentary about pricing adding about $22 million.
So I was curious so first of all do I have those numbers right? And then could you give a bit color about the operating leverage and carrying the business and may be why we didn’t see as much as we might have thought outside of the price that’s operational? Well the actual improvement in the business for the quarter was about 14 million and we’ve improved even line and we have improved 36 million year-to-date.
And I think what we’ve said is the primary driver of that even improvement year-to-date has been pricing.
So it’s pricing that’s coming through in the business today that’s driving the EBIT improvement.
If you look at the second quarter we didn’t have a lot of volume growth in the second quarter.
We work off of lag housing starts and in fact if you go back and look at actual starts in the first quarter 2013 and then actual starts in the first quarter 2014 lag those into the second quarter which is when we’ve seen them the actual number of units built in the first quarter 2013 is about flat with 2014.
So even in a 10% up housing environment which is what consensus is today and what we’re working off of that was going to play out it would our view much more as growth in the first quarter for our not much growth in the second and growth in the third and the fourth.
So this was going to be the soft spot quarter in terms of the volume based on the shape of housing starts.
And that’s why I think what you’re seeing in top-line for the second quarter is a little bit more correlated to where the timing of starts are going to be in 2014.
Got it.
Great.
Thanks very much Mike.
Thanks Stephen.
Our next question is from Phillip Ng with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
You mentioned that you saw some pushback on insulation pricing but you see better traction.
Can you give us a sense of the magnitude we should expect in 3Q or the back half in general and the timing of that? Well we continue to make progress obviously in the first half of the year as evidenced by the answer I just gave to Stephen regarding insulation pricing.
We did have a late 2013 price increase that we were hoping would give us increased momentum to the first half of the year.
That price increase wasn’t as successful.
There was some price improvement in the market but I think weaker volumes the tough winter slower housing starts just didn’t create a market environment where our customers felt confident that they can pass their pricing through.
Seasonally now we are heading into the second half of the year where there is a lot more units to be insulated.
We’ve also seen a little bit of pick up in housing starts over the last three months where housing starts to average about 1 million units in the March-April-May timeframe.
We have this number for June that I think everyone is trying to digest I’m not sure if any of us is really sure when June housing starts because meet the client in the Southeast.
But if you look at May April and March we averaged about a 1 million.
So we think there is decent volume out there in the second half of the year that gives our contractors the opportunity to be busy that has the builders with decent volumes and we should be the environment we’re more successful in pricing.
In Michael’s comments and we don’t comment on individual price increases in terms of realization but we did have a price increase late second quarter that was a double digit price increase in the 12%-ish range and we feel that we had good success with that price increase.
So that should help us in the second half.
Got it.
That’s very helpful.
And on roofing if I understand your guidance correctly you are expecting volumes to be flat to down modestly insulation as a whole as well was pretty weak in the first half that would imply pretty big bounce back in the back half? Is that how we should be understanding it? And can you give us some color on how volumes are tracking in June and July? Sure.
So let’s just kind of do the math on overall guidance for the industry.
Michael said that the industry through the first half we think is down to low mid single digits.
So for the industry in total that would be flat in the second half it has to be up about the same amount in the second half.
So down low-to-mid single digits in the first half.
We typically ship or did more in the first half so we probably need to be up mid single digits in the second half to get a flat full year.
What we said today in our guidance is we’re expecting the overall industry to be flat to slightly down that probably puts the second half in our view somewhere between flat to up mid single digits it’s going to be somewhere in that range.
So I don’t think we need a gigantic bounce back but we are going to need to see better volumes in the second half than we saw in the first second half relative to last year versus what we saw in the first half of the year.
I think we need to step way back and say we have a year here where in many parts of the country winter lasted five weeks longer than it lasted in 2013.
And you said where would you expect volumes to be at the midpoint of the year? You’d expect them to be behind (inaudible).
So I think with all of the buys and timing issues and market share issues and everything else at a very macro level of you just sit back and say given that half the country was under snow for five extra weeks this year is it unreasonable or unnatural that the market be a little bit behind last year and yet you could still expect the overall market to be flat to last year that seems like a reasonable conclusion.
Now obviously if we print a couple of additional consecutive quarters of negative growth for the overall market that’s not going to be good theory and would say that we is falling yet further because storm demand seems to be comping above flat to last year new construction should be flat to slightly up.
So for the overall market to be down appreciably it would be another year of a leg down in re-roof.
And it seems like there is an up activity out there today that that just doesn’t feel like the right kind of base case for the industry.
In terms of our business we have seen improvement as we come through the year part of that has been the evolution of channels which Michael talked about some of the channels that work on replenishment obviously gets stronger during the seasonally strong price of the year.
We get more shipments there that helped us move our market share.
We also had a bit more shipments in other channels in June.
So June we did composite positively to last year we saw some pick up as we went through the second quarter and buys worked their way out of everyone’s book of business or went out of inventory.
So we have some signs of optimism but I would tell you it continues to be a tough volume market and a difficult price market for us.
And I think our team is doing a very very good job of trying to get the best possible profitability out of the markets.
Got you.
That’s very helpful.
Good luck in the quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Rehaut of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Mike.
Just going back to roofing for a second sorry to return the focus there but obviously a key mover for the quarter.
What gives you the confidence in terms of to the extent that volumes can come back a little for you in the back half of the year and regaining a little bit of share? I mean is it completely some of the channel replenishment and the June coming back little bit naturally for your business or are there any other kind of company specific actions on top of that that you’re looking at and would that in turn further put any pressure on these mid teens margins which you appear to be expecting for the back half? Obviously I think we’ve had a lot of internal dialog and internal reviews market by market customer by customer region by region wherever the business stands.
So our team is all over the business in terms of volume and market conditions.
I think that analysis has given us some confidence that where we were not volume effective in the first quarter it was really fundamentally a product of us not meeting market price conditions.
And that simply – we are a market price competitive company.
I mean our goal is obviously to make a lot of money to shareholders but if market conditions are establishing prices that require us to meet market pricing that’s the way Owen Corning operates.
And I think with the exception of late first quarter when there was some of these buys for the most part the rest of our activity in the first half of the year would be a market price type behavior and we know that that’s what resulted in us to be able to sustain our normal position in the market.
So really the second half is just getting some of the noise out and the noise of these buys out and us just competing in market prices in us believing we have enough contract or loyalty we have enough distributor royalty.
We have enough value in terms of our service programs our product offerings some of our product differentiation that will go back to kind of a normal spot in terms of what our customers are selling out their door.
As long as they are selling the appropriate percentage of Owens Corning product out their door they’re going to buy the appropriate percentage of Owens Corning product on the buy side.
So that – easy said hard done I guess would be how I would describe that which is there is no magic to this except for kind of market by market customer by customer making sure that we’re very much in tune with marketing conditions and then they are selling enough of our product to want to buy a share product that’s acceptable to them and acceptable to us.
And as you do that I guess the key question is and perhaps you’ve even seen some of this in your profitability levels in 2Q I mean that’s what I’m missing.
And as you continue to retake some of that share or meet the market so to speak that is incorporated in your outlook for mid teens or to kind of operating margin that you saw in the second quarter or going forward for the back half of the year? Yeah I mean based on our current market conditions we didn’t really see a lot of in fact market deterioration in the second quarter if you look at it on a margin dollar – variable margin dollar per unit basis.
Variable margin dollar per unit in the second quarter were pretty much in line with the first quarter and typically we make progress and they are better in the second quarter because there is historically been good pricing actions in the spring that has lot of widened margins out a little bit in the second quarter.
We didn’t see that this year.
What you’re seeing in our numbers for the second quarter is a bit of compression on the operating margins due to the fixed cost absorption because of weaker volumes.
So the fundamental selling equation on shingles we still have decent margin dollars variable margin dollars per square on the shingles that we sell that the current marketing conditions sustain themselves we think that we can deliver good operating margins at decent volumes.
I appreciate that Mike.
And just on the composites I appreciate the additional comments on the rebuilt cost the incremental rebuilt cost of 30 million.
So that equates rough math I think so about 0.5 of margin for this year that’s 30 million incremental.
So I mean just to dot the I and cross the T here as you would expect 2015 to go back to a normal rebuild type year.
Is that correct number one that would return to that and so they have 30 million of incremental costs you wouldn’t see expect that to recur in 2015? Yeah so I want to make sure all the investors on the call understand the dialog because this is built off of on prior calls as well.
But we had come into the year saying that we had to re-built about 20% of our global capacity this year our melters typically last about 10 years corrosion and just the impact of melting glass over 10 year period of time requires you to put the melter in the turnaround and reline it with new re block and other things.
That has capital associated with it and also has expense dollar associated with it because a lot of the activity is both down time and then also expenses associated with doing the work which aren’t able to be capitalized.
Because we were rebuilding 20% of our melters in the average life our 20% of our capacity and the average life is about 10 years in a typical year we rebuild about 10% of our capacity that’s where the two extra numbers come from.
On an incremental basis that produced about 30 million of cost headwind versus 2013.
Now 2013 was not a super large rebuild year so we were comping against the year that was down a bit.
And when we look ahead to 2015 we’re still working on our capital plans in terms of looking at melter life and which melters are going to need to be addressed in 2015 which ones are going to be extended to 2016.
I think it’s fair to conclude we’ll be able to call back some substantial portion of the 30 million.
I don’t know at this point that we’ve given you enough information for you to be able to conclude whether it will be some or all of that but your point which is directionally on a comparable basis has turned to a tailwind for us next year we would expect it would be.
And we expect that it would be at a material level in terms of operating margin I just don’t want you to come to the conclusion where we’ll have to get all of it back until we finalize the next year’s rebuilt schedule.
Our next question is from Ken Zener of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey Ken.
Good morning.
So the volumes on roofing were where I think people initially expected but I’m struggling with the broader question about how to think about your company and how you guys are thinking about guidance? I know that over the years there’s been several iterations given out the segment level which you’re doing this year in composites and they are kind of leaving it a little more generalized between the two other segments.
Could you help us think about as you struggle through this process as well you can’t control the weather housings is going to do what it does.
But could you guys help us think how we can the challenges you face in communicating to us around the guidance of your company because roofing you can’t figure it out but the insulation perhaps around some said variables that we might have sensitivity to would be helpful because it seems that while your businesses could be very good it’s hard to synchronize them.
So I realize it’s a more broader question Mike 1 or Mike 2 but if you could help us through because it seems to be one of the issues that your stock has in particular.?Thank you.
Yeah thanks Kevin.
And it’s a great question and hopefully my answer is up to the challenge.
You started your question by saying how should we think about the company and at a very high level I have to think about the company the way we’ve always asked you to think about the company which is three great businesses in three great industries all of which are capable of delivering double-digit operating margins.
In recent history while we believe that that’s been true our financial performance has largely been driven by one business which has been our roofing business.
As we work composites through a difficult global competitive environment and as we break insulation through an excruciating housing downturn.
Now if you look at those two businesses composites now in four quarters in a row of improvement insulation now 12 quarters in a row of improvement both of them demonstrating operating leverage of around 50% during that improvement period and with those businesses improving 50 million just in the first half of this year I think we’re getting much closer to financial performance that looks like three great businesses in three great industries.
Now unfortunately and I think frustratingly to the leadership team here roofing which has been our business that was volatile difficult to guide and was difficult to forecast happens to be overwhelming that message right now because of some of the challenges in roofing.
But if you look at our overall portfolio and we have a roofing business that is a mid teens or a better business through some recovery in the roofing cycle which is consistent to what we’ve been saying.
And then you have composites and insulation business we continue on the path to recovery that we’ve begun to demonstrate over the course of last three years in the case of insulation of course the last in last year in composite you actually get much closer to an overall company where they have very strong portfolio of businesses that at least relative to historic standards is actually operating at high levels of performance in a synchronized way.
Now that high level of performance of roofing as it relates to the last 20 years is not high levels of performance necessarily right now always to the last 16 quarters.
We haven’t given up on roofing one day again being a 20% operating margin business we are five points away from that reality.
So there is not a lot that’s needed to see the roofing business perform better but we’re seeing roofing performance today that we think it’s sustainable and it’s consistent the way we’ve guided that business historically even though we are disappointed but not as good as we expected to be.
But we’d ask you continue to think about our company as being three great businesses two of which are establishing a very nice track record of improvement that we believe is sustainable one of which has been a more of a challenge but even in its tough days it’s producing mid teens operating margin and great cash flow.
So it’s tough.
Complexity tends a great discounting I’m not an activist type perspective but it certainly helped.
Can you on insulation the amount of price that you got was that pretty much 100% from the residential side implying commercial what’s going on domestically commercial or international insulation obviously Canada but that price came largely in in the residential commercial side.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Ken.
The pricing is I would say largely residential but if you look at the product line that goes into residential we tend to call those products light density which are kind of fluffy fiber glass insulation products which would be where you would be accustomed to seeing a standard stick residential construction.
Those similar product lines which are built off of similar assets tend to move pricing kind of in tandem with couple of the commercial markets.
So some of the insulation products that would go into standard commercial construction some of the insulation products that go into metal buildings some of insulation products that go into some duct insulation and HVAC type insulation are made on similar assets.
And as a result when we see residential pricing improving we tend to see also some improvement in some of those a little bit more engineered density products.
It’s a bit more broad-based than residential but I think for purposes of how to think about the business for purposes of your analysis the driver of price improvement in insulation would be the residential business.
Our next question is from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you guys.
First question just on pricing I guess I think the disclosure on roofing was up prices for the quarter were down 3% and I think you said June volumes were up year-over-year positive in June.
Can you just talk about pricing trend through the quarter? Did you have to get more or less aggressive on price to gain that volume? We don’t disclose anything on kind of monthly pricing or have any public disclosure on that.
I would say there is not – I don’t think there is a bit story to be told there or a big news there.
I think from our perspective margin rates we tend to manage often variable margin dollars per square.
Our margin rates in pricing I would say were fairly stable through the quarter.
Okay.
And then on the insulation side you just went through it on the price but can you also may be talk generally what you’re seeing volume-wise across the various pieces I think talked enough about the new construction site but may be re-insulation commercial international what you guys are seeing there in volumes? Yeah I mean so going back to the new construction piece.
It’s always just a good reminder that when we look at starts we look at lag starts.
And if you do the math on that the first quarter lags starts this year well not really much improvement over what was last year but kind of already what’s baked in the cake in the third quarter.
We should see an improvement in lags starts for the third quarter as a result our expectation is we’ll see a little bit better volume on the residential side in the second half.
I would say some of the other key markets the commercial market some of the OEM markets have looked more like kind of economic growth we’re seeing some positives growth in those markets but probably tend to track GDP or industry production type growth more than they would track residential new construction – has continued on the international side that would be a good market for us.
Canada has been a little bit weaker that’s been true for I guess the last couple of years.
We’ve seen housing starts to come off a little bit there.
We’ve seen couple weather patterns and things so Canada has been a little harder to forecast to maybe not as well what we saw a couple of years ago.
We are very well positioned in Canada competitively because we have production assets in Canada so as the Canadian dollar weakens our cost positioning in Canada does not deteriorate.
We do have some competitors who ship some product in from the U.S.
so we would believe that that would make them less competitive going into Canada.
Conversely we are profitable in Canada so the weakening of the dollar we also see what profits in terms of translation and the (inaudible) we make in Canada.
But that market at least for us is well hedged and that our production – we sell and make in Canadian dollars.
So if the dollar goes up we don’t have any impact there.
If anything a weaker dollar may be extends our competitive advantage a bit relative to U.S.
manufacturer trying to sell in Canada.
So I guess Canada is down Asia is up and non-residential is up a little bit any color on retail? Retail it’s been a little bit of tale of two cities there.
On the routing side retail has been one of the challenge that’s been a little bit weaker for us we talk about that as one of the markets that buys on a replenishment basis I mean obviously the big retailers don’t take long positions on inventory.
They bring inventory in when they need it.
And same store sales growth and things in heavy building materials like roofing have been for the most part earlier in the year and through the second quarter trailing behind last year.
Insulation sales in retail has actually been fine.
So that’s been more of the roofing theme for us at insulation we’ve been happy with retail sales on insulation.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from George Staphos with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions and for the details.
I guess I had a couple of questions again on roofing.
So as we think about the rest of the year and what your revenue trajectory could look like you noted that June comps were positive I think you said Mike and you expect to track in line with industry more or less or I think you’re guiding to flat to may be mid single digits for the industry.
Now as I recall third quarter last year you lost a fair amount of market share for what you deemed to be somewhat aberrational effects based on the regions the Midwest versus the Coast.
So if that’s true what are the puts and takes why couldn’t you do a bit better than the industry from a revenue growth standpoint within roofing in the third quarter and for the whole of the second half? The second question I had on roofing is you talked about variable margin dollars and the like and your analysis of your peer set.
Do you think that if you looked at it on a cost of capital basis that most of our competitors right now are basically out of breakeven levels versus cost of capital if not why would you expect to get any kind of pricing any kind of margin until you see much larger pick up in re-roof? Thank you guys.
Good luck in the quarter.
Thanks George.
In response to your first question you are in fact right.
If you go back to last year our third quarter share in roofing was not in fact our fourth quarter share on roofing was very very good.
So our second half performance last year in roofing from a market share point of view was very much in line with our historical average numbers.
They were just timing in terms of what came in the third and what came in the fourth.
So in terms of goals that we kept for ourselves flat to slightly up market trending back towards our historical market share little bit easier comp in the third quarter so may be a little bit easier to catch up to last year’s volumes in the third.
If that is what we stood at the end of third then we may be able to go on the fourth because our market share was pretty high on the fourth.
But we’re cognizant of that in the guidance we’re giving that we’re going to have make progress in each of the two quarters in terms of market share and try to get back to volumes that are acceptable to us.
In terms of your question on cost of capital it is a way of looking at the industry I think at this point in time our estimate of our competitors would be most of our competitors are surely making money today and our earnings positive returns on capital.
There is a not a lot of investment opportunity though because you don’t see a lot of growth in demands.
So the ability to apply capital to the roofing market would be applied really based on the theory of you can get a bigger share of a fairly static pie and that would be the purpose of putting capital in.
Second it goes to the comment I made earlier about the marginal economics I’ll try to take additional volume at lower prices.
Today when we look at marginal economics of ourselves when we look at the marginal economics of most of our competitors we don’t see anyone who has cost position or a market position where their marginal economics try to go through price that they have that kind of advantage that winning strategy for them.
Obviously for us over the last four five years we’ve made a lot of money in the business and we’ve tried very hard to earn market share but we’ve never seen a point in time to even given the level of profitability that we’ve had over the last four years that it made sense for us to somehow try to take additional volume at lower prices just based on how the marginal economics of our business would work if we went and did that.
We don’t think we’re unusual in that regard we think that’s the same position most of our competitors find themselves in.
So while cost of capital – return on capitals are acceptable the marginal economics are cutting price to gain volume just don’t seem to be there for anybody in the industry because it’s a fairly consolidated industry today.
So most everyone has a reasonable amount of market share and doesn’t have the economics to do that.
I mean what you’re saying is to gain the share you cut the price efficiently whatever spread you have from your analysis would dissipate and so therefore the desire to do that in the first place? I think that’s one factor and the second factor is historically any market share gains based on cutting prices is sustained.
Fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Good luck in the quarter.
Emily this is Thierry we probably have time for one more round of questions.
Okay.
Our last question will come from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
This is respect to in terms of production volumes for the second half based on your demand outlook discussed several times would you expect manufacturing volumes to be up or down versus manufacturing production rates to be up or down versus prior year? I would expect the manufacturing would be about in line with prior year but that’s going to be very dependent on the timing of the volumes independent on costs.
So a lot of our decision on how much to produce in the second half of the year is driven by a what we’re shipping but b as we get later in the year everything asphalt is inexpensive and it’s going to inflate in the first part of the following year we’ll go ahead and buy some asphalt and convert it into finished goods in order to position ourselves as low cost inventory.
If we think asphalt costs are relatively high and we are not going to see that inflation we’ll deplete our inventories.
And since the business doesn’t have a lot of manufacturing fixed costs absorption most of our fixed costs absorption problems in the business or fixed cost leverage tend to be more fixed overheads and headcount related.
That’s not a big driver of our margin economics in terms to whether we curtail production or whether we push production ahead.
Okay.
Final question what is your sense of where roofing channel inventories right now? Just discussions with distributors or competitors as we end the second quarter.
Our sense is that our first of all our distributors as they continue to kind of consolidate and grow and become more sophisticated I think they are becoming increasingly efficient in the amount of inventory they need to carry to support their business.
So they are very returns focused.
So in flat markets I don’t know if it’s a good assumption anymore than any flat markets end each year with same amount of inventory they had in the prior year.
If their volumes are flat I would expect that they would expect to see some inventory productivity and probably find ways to reduce inventories.
That said some of the big distributors have also been opening some new branches and expanding the geographic footprint which tends to be added to the inventory.
So the macro sense of inventory we think flattish inventory is probably a reasonable assumption a year over year.
Our sense is that outdoor sales for distribution out to door sales for most of the channels have been copying mildly positives which is causing them to work their way through inventories they brought earlier in the year.
They had given that manufacturing shipments comp negatively through the first half of the year and in markets that now is probably counting positively out the door.
That’s a dynamic that would say we are going to see some reorders in the third quarter and fourth quarter in the support of the outlook given for the overall industry.
So that would be the theory of how can our guidance holds together of when people are going to need to order and why they are going to need to order.
Okay.
Thank you.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I’d like to turn it back to Thierry Denis for any closing remarks.
Thank you Emily and thank you everyone for joining us for today’s call.
In fact I’d like to turn it back to Mike Thaman for a few closing remarks.
Well thank you everyone.
We thank you obviously for your interest in our company and your ongoing support on the company.
I think we have covered all the basis in today’s call in terms of talking about Owens Corning and talking about the businesses.
There is a lot of really good things that we’re reporting today that I don’t want to get lost in the roofing volume headlines.
For the first half of the year our insulation business and our composites business are $60 million are even more profitable than they were in the first half of last year.
That is the continuation of the trend that we have seen now for multiple years in insulation.
It is consistent with and we believe at the beginning of a trend of what we would expect to see in composites as we see more disciplined capacity environment disciplined global utilization and a more constructive pricing environment.
So we believe that there are two big fixed costs intensive businesses that can produce big time operating leverage on growth that bolsters businesses at the same time and are now positioned to continue on a path volume growth associated with global industrial production and volume growth associated with residential new construction.
And we can drive that way through improved operating performance improved volumes improved pricing and great operating leverage.
Unfortunately right now we’re doing that in an environment where the roofing business and the roofing market has disappointed us a bit in the first half.
I don’t want that disappointment to be so pronounced that we lose sight of the fact that the business is still a significant business with healthy margins producing significant EBIT and significant cash flow.
We are obviously working very very hard to get it back to the levels that we have enjoyed over the four years.
Having said that we always believed that Owens Corning was a company that had three great business and that the real strength of our company is one of three of our business is performing at very high levels.
And as you look through with the report that we have put out today I think if you go through that report and see we are getting closer to that reality of three very strong businesses performing at high levels.
We’ve got some more to do to finish off the year and make sure we produce a strong year financially.
I think we’ve done a lot of good momentum into the businesses it will help us get there.
And then we got the challenges ahead of us that we believe we’re up to in terms to getting the roofing business with performance that we’d be proud of in the second half.
We look forward to talking to you on our third quarter call to give you update and appreciate your continued support.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Q3 2014 Owens Corning Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Thierry Denis.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kate and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you taking the time to join us for today’s conference call in review of our business results for the third quarter of 2014.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning’s Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a Form 10-Q that detailed our financial results for our third quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we’ve prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the quarter.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the slides on our website owenscorning.com.
We have a link on the homepage and a link on the Investor section of our website.
This call and the supporting slides will be recorded and available on our website for future reference.
Please reference to Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today’s remarks will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
These statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially and we undertake no obligation to update these statements beyond what is required under applicable securities laws.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent risks and uncertainties affecting such forward-looking statements.
Second this presentation in today’s prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release on owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period-to-period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effects of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the third quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 29% in line with our anticipated annual effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2014.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we would begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who would be followed by Michael McMurray.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our third quarter results.
Overall Owens Corning reported positive progress in the quarter.
Momentum continues in our insulation and composites businesses.
And our roofing business through good execution achieved its commercial objective of regaining its historical market position.
Owens Corning’s third quarter revenues was $1.38 billion up slightly over the same period a year ago.
Adjusted earnings of $74 million are up from $66 million one year ago and adjusted EBIT of $132 million for the quarter is up from $119 million last year.
Throughout 2014 we discussed a number of expectations for sustained or improved performance across our businesses for the year.
Let me review our performance against those expectations starting with safety.
As is the case each year we said that we would continue to make progress toward our goal of creating an injury-free workplace.
Owens Corning continues to perform at a very high level of safety performance with a recordable incident rate of 0.53 for the nine months ended September 30 2014.
This is comparable with the rate in the same period in 2013.
As we reported last quarter the severity of our injuries continues to decrease and our goal is to achieve and maintain injury-free work places across our global network.
In insulation we said we should continue to realize the benefit from the growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
Insulation delivered its 13<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement earning $43 million for the quarter a $25 million increase year-on-year driven by improved pricing higher volumes and good manufacturing performance.
In composites we said we expect improved market conditions and pricing to drive EBIT growth with improved manufacturing performance and higher volumes expected to offset higher rebuild cost and inflation.
Third quarter composites EBIT was $32 million an $11 million improvement year-over-year on positive price trends and volume growth.
Strong manufacturing performance offset our third quarter rebuild expenses.
In the quarter we took the final step necessary to achieve the business’s goal of 75% low delivered cost assets by taking the decision to reduce high cost capacity in Japan and Canada and avoid the capital expenditures associated with rebuilds in the next couple of years.
At our last Investor Day we reviewed our composites’ objectives which includes cost leadership price realization product leadership and capital efficiency.
Our year-to-date progress and improved outlook support our view that we are well on plan for meeting these objectives.
In Roofing we entered the year with expectations well above our current outlook.
On our last call we said that the roofing market would be flat to slightly down for the year and our second half goal was to restore our share of the market to historical levels.
Revenue in the Roofing business grew $3 million with year-over-year EBIT down by $38 million.
Third quarter roofing volumes grew about 7% while overall industry shipments showed a low single-digit decline.
Our market position has improved sequentially since the first quarter and we have reached our commercial objective of returning to our historical market position.
We expect to sustain our third quarter position through the fourth quarter.
Margins declined 8% on lower pricing driven by competitive conditions.
Prices stabilized late in the quarter but remained significantly below last year.
I have one additional achievement from the quarter before I turn my comments to our outlook.
For the fifth year in a row Owens Corning earned placement in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in recognition of its sustainability initiatives and was named the industry leader for the world building products group for the second straight year.
Now let me review our expectations for the remainder of 2014.
We said that the insulation business would generate 50% operating leverage through the recovery.
We’ve been tracking this guidance well over the past four years.
We also have guidance that the business would produce $100 million more of EBIT at 1 million US housing starts.
For 2014 the business is expected to generate a full year result consistent with both these guidances.
The Composite business continues to benefit from stable global economic growth improved operating performance and pricing.
Today we expect to generate about $40 million in total EBIT growth driven by about $30 million of price and additional strong cost performance.
While we are pleased with our roofing execution in the quarter we were disappointed with the overall market shipments were down.
We now anticipate that the second half and full year market will be down compared to last year and that fourth quarter market shipments will also be slightly down compared to last year.
Operating margins in 2014 are expected to be below our guidance of average margins of mid-teens or better.
For the company we had previously guided full year adjusted EBIT to grow versus 2013.
Continued weakness of roofing shipments in the second half has created $15 million of downside risk versus last year’s adjusted EBIT performance of $415 million.
At our Investor Day last November we discussed three market-leading businesses with sound strategies to maximize value to our shareholders.
We remain committed to these strategies.
Since the third quarter of 2013 the insulation and composite businesses have grown revenue and earnings producing strong operating leverage.
The roofing business also remains an attractive one for Owens Corning.
Obviously the volume performance and now the margin performance of this business have been quite volatile and difficult for us to forecast.
That said the fundamentals that support our business guidance of average margins of mid-teens are better or unchanged.
With that I’ll now turn it over to Michael will further review details of our business and corporate performance I’ll then return to recap and open the call up for questions.
Michael? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier we are pleased with our continued progress in our insulation and composites businesses and the execution of our recovery plan in roofing.
Now let’s start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today’s press release and the Form 10-Q.
We reported third quarter 2014 consolidated net sales of $1.4 billion up 5% compared with sales reported for the same period in 2013.
In our roofing business net sales were flat as higher sales volumes were offset by lower selling prices.
Net sales in our insulation business were up 5% primarily on higher sales volumes and increased selling prices.
Lastly net sales in our composites business were up 8% due primarily to higher sales volumes and increased selling prices.
In a moment I’ll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-to-period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the third quarter of 2014 was $132 million compared to $119 million in the same period one year ago.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter of 2014 were $74 million or $0.63 per diluted share compared to $66 million or $$0.56 per diluted share in 2013.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $75 million and in line with our prior year.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $91 million including the net effect of alloy purchases and sales.
Now on slide 6 let me reconcile our 2014 third quarter adjusted EBIT of $132 million to our reported EBIT of $107 million.
In the third quarter we took actions in our composites business to avoid future capital expenditures and closed two melters one in Japan and one in Canada.
Both of these melters were high cost and scheduled for rebuild in 2015.
We expect to recognize charges of about $30 million associated with these actions between 2014 and 2015 including $21 million this quarter.
I’ll provide further details on these actions later in my prepared remarks.
We have also adjusted our $4 million of charges related to our European asset restructuring which is now essentially complete.
Now please turn to Slide 7 and I will provide a high level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing the third quarter of 2014 with the same period one year ago.
Adjusted EBIT increased $13 million.
The $25 million improvement in our insulation business and $11 million improvement in our composites business were more than offset by a $38 million decline in our roofing business.
General corporate expenses were $15 million lower versus the prior year due to a reduction in performance-based compensation strong cost controls and gains related to a favorable energy contract in Brazil.
Let me take a moment to talk a bit further on the energy contract in Brazil.
During the quarter it was determined that the contract did not qualify for hedge accounting.
This resulted in a $6 million gain for the third quarter as the contract was mark-to-market.
It is expected that this gain will fully reverse in the fourth quarter with the expiration of the contract.
In addition there was an additional $3 million of profit related to the power sales back to the grid that occurred throughout the third quarter as the facility was down for a melter rebuild.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 8 where we provide a more detailed review of our businesses starting with building materials.
For the third quarter building materials net sales were $928 million a 3% increase compared to the prior year.
Building materials delivered $101 million in EBIT down $13 million from the same period in 2013.
Slide 9 provides an overview of our roofing business.
Roofing net sales for the quarter were $474 million flat compared with the same period a year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was $58 million down $38 million compared to the same period in 2013.
The eight point decline in EBIT margins was primarily driven by lower selling prices which more than offset the impact of favorable volumes.
As I mentioned earlier in the call we were pleased by continued sequential improvement of our overall share placements during the quarter although difficult market conditions persisted.
Our continued commercial actions in the third quarter have returned to show our historical market position although pricing track significantly below the prior year I am pleased to report selling prices stabilized late in the quarter.
In the third quarter the market weakness we experienced in the first half continues and volumes were down low single-digits.
We previously expected the second half roofing market to be slightly higher to flat compared to the prior year.
Given the performance on a year-to-date basis we now expect the roofing market to be down in the fourth quarter and full year.
Our goal for the second half of 2014 was to restore historical share of placement consistent with the full year 2013.
In the third quarter our volumes grew 7% versus the prior year restoring our historical share placement in the market.
As a reminder in 2013 we were a bit weaker than the market in the third quarter and a bit stronger in the fourth quarter.
Looking forward we would expect our share placement in the fourth quarter to track more consistent with the third quarter 2014 than the average for the full year of 2013.
As a result we would expect to trail the market in the fourth quarter.
Now slide 10 provides a summary of our insulation business.
Sales for the quarter in insulation of $454 million were up 5% over the same period one year ago on higher sales volumes and increased selling prices.
The business delivered EBIT of $43 million in the third quarter compared to $18 million in the same period one year ago primarily on lower manufacturing cost increased selling prices and higher sales volumes.
This was our 13<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement in our insulation business.
The insulation business delivered strong operating leverage for the third quarter driven by solid manufacturing performance tight cost controls and higher selling prices.
As we have discussed on previous calls it is our goal to deliver 50% operating leverage through the recovery.
As we’ve experienced in previous quarters our quarterly operating leverage results will be subject to volatility due to the timing of pricing shipments production and capacity actions.
In the third quarter volume growth slightly trailed our previous expectations.
Growth in the quarter got off to a slow start and was tampered by the mix of US multi-family versus single-family housing starts as well as flat market conditions outside of the US.
Although volumes showed expectations they continue to strengthen as the quarter progressed.
We typically build inventories in the front half of the year to support seasonal demand in the second half of the year.
Given the weaker volumes in the third quarter we will likely curtail production in the fourth quarter to meet year end 2014 capital goals.
As a result we anticipate higher manufacturing cost in the fourth quarter and operating leverage below 50% but we continue to expect operating leverage greater than 50% for the full year.
Looking forward we continue to expect the insulation business to benefit from growth in US residential new construction improved pricing and strong operating leverage.
Now I ask you to turn your attention to Slide 11 for a review of our composites business.
Net sales in our composites business for the quarter were $489 million an 8% increase compared to the same period in 2013.
The increase in revenue was driven by higher sales volumes increased selling prices and favorable customer mix.
Selling prices continued their sequential improvement for the fifth consecutive quarter.
EBIT for the quarter was $32 million compared to $21 million in the same period last year due primarily to improved selling prices and higher sales volumes.
Continued strong manufacturing performance helped to offset higher expenses associated with plant rebuilds.
In composites this was our fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year EBIT improvement driven primarily by improved operating performance pricing and higher volumes.
For the year we continue to expect moderate global industrial production growth.
Based on our strong year-to-date performance we expect that full year EBIT improvement for the business will now be around $40 million largely driven by improved pricing.
Strong manufacturing performance and volume growth are now expected to more than offset higher expenses associated with plant rebuilds and inflation.
As a reminder we said that plant rebuild expenses in the second half were expected to be about $20 higher than in the same period one year ago.
About two-thirds of these higher costs occurred in the third quarter.
We expect the momentum we have established in the first three quarters will continue to offsetting headwinds in the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned earlier in my prepared remarks we have taken the decision to avoid future capital expenditures and closed two high cost melters one in Japan and one in Canada.
The closure of the two melters represents the final steps in our multi-year plan for the composites business to achieve a 75% low delivered cost goal.
The actions in investments to achieve this goal has been significant.
They include an extensive restructuring of high cost assets in Europe and the successful sale and closure of a high cost facility in China.
We also constructed several new low cost production lines and entered into great alliances with China based manufacturers.
The actions we have taken in the capacity tightening environment we are currently experiencing position this business to continue the momentum we’ve established over the past five quarters.
Now let me turn your attention to Slide 12.
In September our Board of Directors approved our third quarterly dividend payment to be made on November 4 2014.
The dividend represents added value to our shareholders and demonstrates confidence in our earnings and free cash flow outlook.
As of September 30 2014 7.7 million shares remain available for repurchase at the company’s current authorization.
Year-to-date we have purchased 900 000 shares and did not repurchased any in the third quarter.
As we balance our priorities for the future deployment of our free cash flow both dividends and stock repurchases will be important mechanisms to return capital to shareholders.
With that review of third quarter results I now should turn to Slide 13 where I’ll review our guidance for 2014.
We had previously guided that we expected to grow adjusted EBIT versus 2013.
Continued weakness in second half roofing market shipments now create the downside risk of $15 million versus last year’s adjusted EBIT of $416 million.
We expect corporate expenses to be about $80 million.
This represents a $20 million to $30 million cost reduction versus our previous guidance due to lower performance-based compensation and strong cost controls.
Capital spending for 2014 is expected to be about $370 million including approximately $65 million of spending associated with the construction of our and is now expected to be about 370 million including approximately 65 million of spending associated with the construction of our new non-woven facility in Gastonia North Carolina.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about $315 million.
Our $2.1 billion US tax NOL will significant offset cash taxes for sometime to come.
As a result of our tax NOL and other tax planning initiatives we expect our 2014 cash tax rate to now be about 10% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Our 2014 adjusted effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 28% to 30% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Thank you and I’ll now turn the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I noted at the start of the call I believe that we reported positive progress for the quarter consistent with the strategic goals we laid out for the company.
I am as disappointed as anybody with our roofing results this year and our overall impact in OC’s financial results for 2014.
We came into the year expecting earnings growth and now expect relatively flat earnings.
But we are better company today than we were a year ago.
Insulation and composites are another year further along and demonstrating their earnings power and value.
We are establishing the good track record in these businesses.
Roofings having a down year but it’s certainly poised for real upside if we can recover pricing and margin performance.
The best OC is one where all businesses are performing at a high level and I believe that we closer today than we’ve been in a long time.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Thierry who’ll liaison the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Kate we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Thanks for all the details.
I guess my first question is this and it’s on roofing if prices decline throughout the quarter and then stabilize late in the quarter would that suggest that fourth quarter margins are likely to be down at least as much as the third quarter versus third quarter variance so down at least 8 percentage points versus the year ago? And then on insulation given the fact that you are taking curtailments that would suggest that the incremental progress you’ve been seeing would slow in the fourth quarter but you would still expect fourth quarter insulation EBIT improvement would you care to comment on that as well? Thank you guys.
Let me take the insulation question and I’ll turn the roofing question over to Michael on the progression of roofing prices through the quarter and fourth quarter outlook.
With respect to insulation I think you’ve got it just right based on what we tried to say in our prepared remarks which is the timing of operating leverage in insulation is obviously something that is not smooth.
And it’s dependent upon when we are building inventories when we are depleting inventories what level is the utilization we are running.
Michael in his remarks said that third quarter volumes got up a little bit more slowly than we expected and actually built through the quarter.
So we were pretty happy with the run rate of the business late in the third and I would say generally that’s continued in what we’ve seen early in the fourth quarter.
But it left a little bit of a demand gap in our outlook for the year.
So we are going to have taken a bitter curtailment in the fourth quarter in order to get our year end inventories where we’d like them to be and manage through working capital and cash target.
That will not be so sizable that I wouldn’t expect that we would go backwards on earnings in the fourth quarter.
So I think you should expect earnings growth for the quarter obviously great performance for the year and as Michael said 50% operating leverage or better for the full year.
So those are kind of the key things we said about insulation.
I’ll let Michael make a few comments about the progression of roofing pricing and margin.
Yes thanks Mike and thanks George.
Yes so I think the good news is that pricing did stabilize late in the third quarter and we would expect that trend to continue as we move into the fourth quarter and then quite frankly there was a September price increase that was out and we’ve actually made a little bit of progress in some geographies.
Now the one thing that I’d point you to is that if you go back over a number of years and look at the progression of the third quarter margins to fourth quarter margins they typically go down because the level of production in the fourth quarter typically is the less for the entire year therefore we get the least amount of production leverage.
So what I would encourage you to do is just kind of go back and look at the last three or four years to kind of understand the function of how they drop down quarter-over-quarter.
But the good news is that pricing has stabilized and contribution margins as we move from the third quarter into the fourth quarter have stabilized as well.
Michael I appreciate that.
I mean would it be fair to say that you are looking at mid-single-digit type margins in roofing in the fourth quarter? I realize it might be a finer point than you’d like but I figure I’d give it a try? Yes it’s probably a finer point than we’d like.
Okay thank you guys.
I’ll turn it over.
The next question comes from Kathryn Thompson of Thompson Research Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my questions today.
Good morning Kathryn.
Question primarily focuses on composites and it’s two-fold.
Of the $21 million charge with the decision not to rebuild two composite plants will this impact 2015 or will it impact 2014? And then as a follow-up you previously had outlined roughly $20 million of cost for rebuilds that were going to hit in the second half of 2014 two-thirds of it hitting in Q3 the balance in Q4.
Is that still on track? I’m going to let Michael handle those questions.
Michael? Yes so I think the important thing Kathryn is that the two are unrelated.
So let me first talk about the decision that we took in the third quarter related to the two high cost melters one of which is in Japan and one of which is in Canada.
These melters were scheduled for rebuild not this year but next year and as I said in my prepared remarks these are kind of the final steps of a multi-year plan we’ve been on to achieve our 75% low delivered cost goal.
The charges associated with these two melters over 2014 and 2015 will total about $30 million of which $21 million we took in the third quarter.
So that’s the decision we took around the two sub-scale melters.
Now moving back to rebuild activity that we have going on this year so we have a number of melters that are being rebuilt taking you back to the previous quarters we said that rebuild activity is on the order of kind of 2x.
Rebuild expense for the full year will be up roughly $30 million year-on-year.
On the last call we said that in the second half of the year we would have about $20 million of cost and then what I said in my prepared remarks today of that $20 million roughly two-thirds happened in the third quarter the balance will happen in the fourth quarter.
I am pleased to say that that both melters the rebuilds are complete.
They’ve been lit and they are in start-up mode and the rebuilt has gone according to plan.
That’s helpful and so the $30 million total charges and that $21 that’s in the current quarter it seems will the balance of that hit in the Q4 or will it be more a 2015 event? Yes so there will be a little bit of accelerated depreciation in the fourth quarter and then accelerated depreciation over the balance of 2015 and in the other kind of miscellaneous charges.
Okay great.
And the second question the extremely low corporate expense in the quarter I know you went through a laundry list of items in the prepared commentary but you’ve been averaging in a $20 million to $30 million range.
Could you clarify that $1 million for corporate expense? Yes Kathryn this is Mike.
Just a few comments on corporate then maybe Michael would have something to add but obviously we brought down our estimate for corporate pretty significantly since the beginning of the year and that’s really been driven by two main factors one is we’ve reined in some spending and given you a tighter spending targets and have actually reduced our spending in the corporate areas year-on-year.
And then the second is we run our performance-based compensation accrual to the corporate.
So when we get off of our business plan and get off of our guidance it reduces the size of our bonus pools and therefore reduces the amount of money that’s in the corporate expense budget.
If you look at the four quarters of the year we were around $30 million in the first quarter $20 million in the second quarter.
We are about effectively zero in the third quarter and then we guided to $80 million for the full year.
So you can do the math to see on how that plays through for the remainder of the year.
We have said and we are very clear about – there was a $6 million mark-to-market that was a positive in the third quarter that will be a negative in the fourth quarter.
So it’s going to be a push to corporate expense.
So if you work your way through those numbers what you’ll really see is the first quarter accrual is a lot higher than the other three quarters and the third quarter is lower and primarily that’s the impact of we were still accruing at a high level for performance-based compensation in the first.
We reversed out some of the accruals in the third.
So we try to be as transparent as we could be on that.
I think it distorts quarter a touch but the way we are handling accounting at the corporate level I think gives you better comparability for the businesses.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
The first question I had was on the composites rebuild and just wanted to confirm it sounds like decision not to go ahead with the rebuild of those furnaces as you’re saying it’s part of the plan to get to 75% of low cost but just wanted to kind of confirm that perhaps even from a timing perspective that that decision it kind of sounds like it was irrespective of any type of global demand trends i.e.
perhaps a little bit below trend line global GDP growth in the last year or two.
I am just trying to get a sense if the – maybe slightly softer than expected demand trends globally had anything to do with that decision? Michael thanks for the question.
Really this is not a demand-driven decision for us at all.
It’s very much of a low cost capacity-driven decision for us and really trying to take capital when you come to these moments of decision which is rebuilding a melter.
So on a cash cost basis most melters make profit during the life of the melter and then when you get to the end of the melter you have to rebuild the melter and put all the capital back in.
We’ve been looking at our Canadian asset and our Japanese asset and they were quite high cost.
We’ve been working over the last three or four years as Michael said to add in some low cost capacity into our global network we did a facility in Mexico we did a facility in China.
We did an expansion in Russia all of that is operating today and it’s very low cost and it’s given us some flexibility to meet our market share goal and to meet our customers’ demand requirement while taking out high cost assets.
So this has been a four or five year plan of evolving and migrating our asset base from some of our sub-scale high cost melters into the really scale low cost stuff.
The stuff that’s in rebuild now if you look at what we have in 2014 it’s a big melter in Europe that’s very cost-effective.
It’s our melter in Brazil which is very cost-effective.
As we look into 2015 our rebuild is primarily going to be big scale low cost North American capacity.
So we are now starting to be able to put our capital where we have the best cost position and where we have the most profitability and unfortunately it causes after that’s back out of some other geographies where we did not see the cost position that we needed to succeed.
Okay thank you Mike.
And I guess just then on roofing kind of two questions if I could sneak them in one just following up on an earlier question on 4Q margins versus 3Q given that pricing stabilized the quarter towards the end of the quarter which would imply maybe pricing slipping throughout most of the quarters and then at the lower end of that range combined with I think normal seasonality in 4Q.
I would presume it is safe to say that there would be another sequential decline in gross – I am sorry EBIT margins in roofing for 4Q.
And then separately thinking about it longer term I think you reiterated your view that this is a business that could do mid-teens or better and just wanted to get a sense of what drives that confidence because even that low double-digit margins I think you’ve commented in the past that there is still pretty good level of profitability and just trying to get my arms around if that profitability is decent in a low double-digit range why the industry would allow for – from a competitive standpoint allow for something greater than that? Okay let me take the first part of your question and then I’ll address the second part of your question.
The first part of your question related to kind of sequential margins from third quarter to fourth quarter.
I think if you look at history typically fourth quarter margins have been a bit weaker than third quarter margins and I think that’s a reasonable expectation again this year.
So we are not looking at fourth quarter and believing that will come margins positively in roofing.
I think in prior years you may be seeing a bigger drop-off in margins than what we would be expecting this year.
So we are going to be somewhere between maybe what history would suggest and where we were in the third quarter.
I think that’s largely driven by a couple of things one is we’ve been very good in expense control this year so I think we are going to have some expense reductions and other things that we had put through the business earlier in the year will continue to help us in the fourth and that will come through in margins.
I think the second issue is the nature of some of the pricing deals that we have with our customers there are yearend rebates and other things and that when we are having a bad year where our volumes are down some of those gates in rebates are not met and as a result we have rebated close and other things that we’d come back a little bit in the fourth quarter that would help a bit.
So I think we are going to be somewhere between what you might have seen historically and where we were in the third but it might be overcooking it a little bit to think that we are going to drop as much as what we’ve seen over the last couple years unless we see some adverse movement in the market situation and the competitor situation.
As it relates to kind of reiterating our guidance that we probably can average mid-teens margins or better and many of you have been at our Investor Day as we went through that analysis the first couple times and it was really driven off of a very detailed competitive analysis.
We went through a detailed benchmarking of our business in the late 2000s and 2010.
We thought about a $150 million of what we thought were proprietary cost improvements single redesign product line upgrades where we have to get mix improvements in our product.
Some things we did from a sourcing point of view some things we did in terms of rationalizing some fixed outs that’s been shutting some facilities which we think improved the structural margins of our business by about 7 or 8 points versus where we have been historically.
So historically our business had been kind of mid to high single-digits.
We felt that we had added 7 or 8 points of real margin to our business through good execution and things that either our competitors had already done.
So in some cases we are catching up or things that our competitors couldn’t do.
So in some cases where we are getting proprietary improvement versus our competition which would have caused us to believe that the sustainable margins we have seen historically of the mid to high single-digits were now mid-teens type margins.
We’ve looked at this year every way you possibly can in terms of our own performance what we think is happening competitively where our prices are relative to our competitors where our costs are relative to our competitors and we don’t see any fundamental change in that analysis that led us to that conclusion.
So we think our business is well positioned based on the product lines we have and how we are able to price relative to our competitors and where our cost position is and where our costs are relative to our competitors that we should be able to average mid-teens or better margins over a period of time.
We are obviously not going to do that this year we are obviously well above that if you take the last three four five years.
It’s a harder call to make when you are below that guidance then it is when you are above that guidance but as you can see with the pricing dynamic that we’ve had this year.
If we have some constructive pricing for Owens Corning in the first part of next year that would do a lot to rehabilitate our margins and get us back on track and that’s certainly how we are looking into next year is trying to figure out how we can get our business off to a faster start on next year and improve our margins earlier in the year and then have a much better year.
Thanks and I just – just one last quick one.
What sort of factors would have to come together to drive the realization of $12 million $15 million or downside on full year EBIT versus 2013? The downside really we see is on the roofing volume side.
So we came into the second half of the year coming out of our second quarter call believing that the full year might be flat maybe a little bit down but just it was down to the first half we were expecting the second half to be up maybe not enough up to offset the first half but certainly up we were disappointed that our shipments were okay in the third quarter but overall industry shipments were in fact down.
We’ve now had three consecutive quarters of down shipments the rate at which we are trailing last year has continued to decline through down more in the first quarter than the second down more in the second than the third in terms of industry shipments.
So we think kind of best case fourth quarter industry shipments maybe track last year or maybe slightly down and that loss of volume between the third quarter and fourth quarter industry shipments and our current market share puts some volume weakness into our outlook and that’s really the single driver of the downside.
So we don’t see anything today versus where we were 90 days ago on composites or insulation performance we really don’t see anything today versus where we are 90 days ago in terms of our market share in roofing or where we expected margins to be the big issue is just with the market opportunity for us in terms of what’s going to get shipped thus year.
The next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Can you give us some color in terms of what drove the share gains versus the market commentary you had given for roofing volumes in the quarter? Whether it’s geographic retail the price cuts that you’d made and should we be expecting OC to gain share in the fourth quarter as the price cuts came through late in the third quarter? Yes it was a lot of really good work and hard work by our commercial team and I think they executed very well in the third quarter.
But at a very high level I think the explanation is relatively simple which is our pricing in the first quarter and probably first half of the second quarter wasn’t where we needed to be competitively and when we got back into the market and priced our shingles where we’ve historically been competitively.
We got back to our historical market share position and I think that’s evidence that our customers like buying and selling our shingles contract is like working with our shingles and home owners think they would grade on your house.
So the fundamentals that drive long-term market share which is people who want to do business with you and believe that they can make money buying your products those fundamentals hadn’t changed in the first half with the exception we’ve got a little bit out of the market in terms of pricing.
And I think now we are back at market pricing or our competitive pricing and that allows us to enjoy our market share.
We are expecting our share to be relatively flat in the fourth quarter versus the third.
Michael tried to go through this in his prepared remarks it’s a little bit tricky.
And that we think our third quarter market share was right on where we wanted to be versus overall share last year overall share in the second half of last year.
So we came in where we are hoping to be.
Last year in the third quarter our share was actually a little bit below average last year in the fourth quarter our share was a little bit above average.
So in fact our out performance in the third quarter was not a share gain versus history it was just a positive comp through last year’s third quarter share.
We would expect we will comp negatively in the last year’s fourth quarter share but the overall second half will comp right on last year’s second half and that the overall second half of this year will comp right on last year’s overall full year.
Great and then in terms of the corporate expense color thank you for all the indication you had given on the call but looking into 2015 should we think about that level of tracking alongside sales growth can you sort of frame what certain triggers maybe to help us model that into next year? Well typically our corporate guidance and – I don’t want to give a definitive number right now but you know our corporate guidance at the beginning of the year has typically been more in the 120 range and that is targeted at a full bonus pay out in our performance-based compensation programs associated with our business plan.
So obviously we would go into next year with business plans that we intend to deliver against and therefore we’d be accruing against on having performance-based compensation back in the corporate expense line.
So that will be a bit of a head wind it’s a well-designed program.
I think it’s shareholder-friendly when the business is not doing well Our corporate expenses come down because our performance-based compensation goes down and then at the beginning of any given year we are going to have that earn back the bonus pool in order to grow earnings.
So it’s consistent with how it’s been in the last three or four years.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much guys wanted to ask about first the composite segment you indicated I think that you are looking for a more favorable pricing outlook.
I think you said this year $30 million I think out of $40 million improvement if I remember correctly.
I was curious just to whether the pricing outlook in general in corporate any positive impact from fixed cost contracts which I know tend to get renegotiated around this time of year or if actually that comment is before you’ve seen any potential benefit from renegotiating contracts up? Yes thanks Stephen.
It’s Michael.
I’ll take that question and maybe just to kind of back this at the beginning of the year so at the beginning of the year we expected to improve our composites business financial performance on the order of about $20 million to $30 million which we said was going to be largely driven by pricing.
On our call last quarter we upgraded that to kind of the high end.
So let’s call it $30 million and then on this call we have upgraded our outlook for the composites business to be about $40 million year-on-year largely driven by pricing but we are also seeing some benefit from excellent manufacturing execution as well.
And then from a pricing perspective again five consecutive quarters of progress you are right we have about 50% of our volumes are in fixed price contracts.
Those contracts tend to get negotiated in the fourth quarter of every year.
I think it’s probably a little bit too early to give any flavor around what we expect.
Although I’d say that we expect to make progress.
Great that’s very helpful.
Appreciate that.
Second question relates to the insulation segment which – thanks for your comments about how the incrementals are going to moving in 4Q and results for the year that’s helpful and I think you attributed the fact that you are going to see a lower incremental in the fourth quarter than you had in the third quarter.
I guess an implication there was inventory build because you said I guess you are going to have some curtailments in 4Q I guess just generally what seems to me that inventory kind of store insulation I mean the stuff is very difficult to – it take up trends than a room and what not.
And so I was curious how big of a deal was that? And to the degree there was any inventory build was it intentional or was it a reflection of some softness in the market on the demand side that that happened? So if you could just give a little flavor about this curtailment that affects the incremental that would be interesting.
Thanks.
Thank you Stephen.
Certainly your observation that insulation is big and bulky and difficult to store is one that is a content topic of our internal reviews when we talk about inventory levels in our insulation business.
It is our natural rhythm of the year to produce more insulation in the first half of the year than we sell and just sell more insulation in the second half of the year than we produce.
And that really has to do with the seasonality of demand and an effort to get better fixed asset capital productivity and better returns on capital.
So what we effectively do with inventory is we shift capacity from the first half of the year to the second half of the year.
The alternative manufacturing strategy would be to build capacity above your average demand and build capacity to your peak demand which would mean that in the first half of the year you would have a pretty sizable portion of your capacity curtailed and in the second half of the year you’d run pull out.
We do that math all the time and it is more cost-effective and capital-effective and produces better returns to actually shift capacity from the first half to the second half and exercise your fixed assets harder.
Now obviously when we do that we have to make a lot of assumptions about the progression of housing starts and other things and how that will affect are going to have some demand.
We have a lot of levers that we can pull to make annual adjustments and we tend to manage to kind of year-end working capital targets in both of our building materials businesses because that tends to be the seasonality of the business from the beginning of the winter to the end of winter.
So we were a little bit ahead of ourselves really for two reasons.
One is our manufacturing performance is going to outstanding.
So the team is producing at record levels in virtually all of our facilities which is helping us on the cost side.
Our demand was a little bit lighter.
As Michael said it’s somewhat related to the mix of single-family multi-family.
We probably had the starts numbers pretty close but with a little bit more multi-family – so we didn’t see quite as much demand pick up and that’s been a little bit better late in the quarter late in the third and early four.
So we feel pretty good about our outlook between now and year end but we are going to take a little bit of curtailment in order to get our inventories back.
The next question comes from Alex Regal from FBR.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
With regards to the roofing margins in 2015 can you go into some detail on some actions that could be taken over the next few months to attempt to drive margins higher in that business?  Sure Alex.
This is Mike.
Obviously probably the most critical time of a year for establishing a really great year of performance in roofing is from the middle of December or probably to the middle of May.
I mean that tends to be the time of a year where a lot of decisions get made that have big impacts on volume and pricing and the timing of volume and pricing for the following year.
So in our history we have given incentives in the first quarter to encourage distributors to bring inventories of our products.
I’ve said on a number of calls I think going back probably two or three years as the manufacturer we thought three good reasons to do that.
One is typically this time a year asphalt costs are a little bit less expensive because of paving demand the second reason historically has been that we don’t run our assets as strongly in the winter as we normally did in the summer.
And because of end-use market demand being shut off by bad weather.
And then the third reason is you want your customers to e have some inventory when the snow breaks and spring comes because that’s the beginning of roofing season and that’s very hard for us to forecast.
We rather have some inventory forward deployed.
A couple of years ago in 2012 when we had had a challenging year in terms of margins we were pretty explicit in talking about the fact that for the most part we were not seeing that those three variables were driving good decisions for us around winter discounting.
So we haven’t typically seen nearly as much asphalt cost will leak in the winter as what we might see say five or ten years ago.
Obviously the way the first quarter incentives have been structured by us as a manufacturer we’ve encouraged our distribution partner to purchase well beyond their first quarter needs and actually I would say you have created some speculation in the market our speculative buying behaviors in the market were people are buying in the first quarter on expectation that they can carry low cost inventory deep into the year and then obviously the third reason is still a valid reason like our distributors to have products out there at the beginning of the season.
Right now asphalt costs are above where they were last year even though we’ve seen oil come down we expect to maybe get a little bit of a relief from the inflation we are seeing and that might be something that would help us avoid further margin deterioration as we head later into the year with lower volumes but we do not expect to have a really inexpensive asphalt environment in the first quarter.
So as we sit here today we would love to see an environment where we can avoid the incentives in the first quarter and continue to price our products where they are today at least earlier in the year and then if there is a spring pricing activity where we are able to raise prices because volumes start to get a little bit better that would be the path back to better margins.
But obviously based on this year we are very cautious about ensuring that we are listening to the market very carefully and are staying competitive.
And secondly regarding your share repurchase initiative it sounds like Michael’s comments would suggest that the Board believes maybe a share buyback is a little bit higher priority today to maybe three or six months ago is that the case and how aggressive could the company become in the next three to six months? Well earlier in the year we came into the year expecting good results and good earnings growth and earlier in the year we both had declared a dividend and we are buying back some shares.
I think as we guided to the middle part of the year realize we are going to have a big gap in our roofing performance and roofing is a huge cash generator for our company because it’s primarily US based earnings.
Not a terribly capital-intensive business and we have the really nice NOL position in the US.
So pretty much roofing EBIT flows through to cash flow.
We changed our cash flow expectations for the year based on our roofing outlook.
Looked to the shares we had bought looked at the dividend we have declared looked at some of our goals for our balance sheet in terms of debt and some of our key ratios and got a little bit more cautious in the second half of the year in terms of share repurchases.
I think we continue to believe that share repurchases are a good thing for us to do with excess capital and then we can’t find great investment opportunities we would get more aggressive with investment capital with little bit share repurchase.
I think we are getting into a period in composites in particular where this multi-year restructuring program that we had in place is coming more to an end and the capital call for that business over the next five years is probably quite a bit different in terms of what we need for investments to get the low cost capacity what we need for investments and restructuring.
It should start to vein and as a result we have better visibility to – I think better free cash flow performance in composites better visibility to good free cash flow performance in insulation as we see continued recovery in housing.
If we can get roofing margins to recover we would obviously have immediate visibility to better cash flow performance in roofing.
So those would be some of the variables that would go into the Board’s discussion and management’s thought process around share repurchase.
Hey Kate this is Thierry.
You would probably have time for one more round of questions.
Okay the next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
I was just wondering if you could talk about some of the revenue trends in the composites by geography and specifically just if you could breakout by region just directionally how revenue has progressed during the quarter and maybe touch upon if you’ve seen any changes in revenue trends particularly given some of the macro concerns coming out of Europe and some of the deceleration at least from the data points out of Asia?  Hey Garik it’s Michael.
I’ll take it and then I’ll see if Mike wants to follow in with any other color as well.
But as you saw in our reported results we had decent revenue gains year-on-year and decent volume gains year-on-year.
As I kind of think about maybe the big three regions first probably North America in particular was probably strongest followed by Europe.
So we made nice progress in Europe year-on-year.
Some of our – some of the developing economies like Brazil have probably been a bit more tampered this year versus maybe original expectations.
So I think all in all we are pleased with the progress that we’ve made strongest the North America followed by Europe and then clearly we’ve got Europe and other parts of the globe on our radar screen but so far things have remained stable.
Yes maybe the one thing I’d add we’ve seen Asia relatively stable I mean particularly China but also India has been pretty good.
Europe we are cautious obviously based on the things you read.
We have seen much better performance in Europe than maybe what the economic statistics or the newspaper would say.
And we probably have a couple of trends that will help us in Europe.
So we have always had kind of Europe for Europe strategy.
We’ve really worked on our cost position over there now as you see the euro declining.
It’s becoming a less attractive export target for some manufacturing outside of Europe based on exchange rates.
So while we may anticipate a bit more of a challenged demand environment in Europe as things truly do slowdown we think European assets are pretty well loaded not just for us but also for our competition and we expect that it’s going to be a little bit less attractive export market for some of our Chinese based competitors China-based competitors.
So all in all we’d hope to maybe thread that needle a little bit where Europe went a little bit soft the other dynamics with the exchange rate and some other things might give us a support in Europe that we continue what has been really a great turnaround of what we anticipate will be very very good performance in Europe for our business.
Okay it makes sense.
Thanks for that and I guess just quickly on insulation.
Good price momentum in the quarter just wondering if you could help us understand how much of a benefit was there from the June price increase or was most of the price benefit related to actions that you secured late in 2013 and then maybe if you can comment around your expectations maybe initially for pricing next year given that some of the insulation manufacturers have announced fairly sizable increases? Yes our price momentum on a comparable basis is actually slowing down a little bit right now.
So this has been an area of focus for us and I think we’ve been able to have really good cost performance and really good manufacturing performance to cover some of the price that maybe we expected to have at this point in the year we didn’t have.
That primarily relates back to the January price increase we reported on both I guess our fourth quarter call and then our first quarter call that we were not as successful at the first quarter early first quarter price increase as we had hoped to be.
Obviously terrible weather we had seen a slowdown in housing a little bit through the third quarter last year.
That was coming through in the lag starts when mortgage rates bumped in the middle of 2013 so the market environment wasn’t that robust.
Our customers were not busy builders were not busy and then we find it very difficult to pass price in the beginning part of the year.
We were more successful mid-year as we thought is appropriate and so as a result we are now kind of comping to last year with only one price increase in our numbers not two.
There has been announced a sizable price increase for the beginning part of next year by Owens Corning and also by some of the other players in the industry.
We think that it’s obviously getting to the point in the construction cycle where we need to work hard to get insulation back to what we would consider to be fair pricing.
If you look at the last decade insulation prices basically are unchanged on nominal terms for over a decade in real terms insulation prices have come down quite tremendously with inflation and the value of the insulation package in a home as a percentage of the total cost for the home continues to decline.
So it’s not that we are somehow trying to push insulation pricing to unseen levels historically.
We are trying to get back to levels that allow us to every investment economics and are something more consistent with the value of the product in the home.
If we get off to a good start next year I think that will help for next year.
Obviously if we don’t have a good price performance earlier in the year that’s going to become more of a challenge for us as we go into 2015.
Okay it makes sense.
Thanks for your help.
Kate I think this concludes the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
So thank you everyone for joining us today’s call and with that I’d like to turn it back over to Mike Thaman for some closing comments.
Well first of all I always want to thank everyone who is on the call for your continued interest and support of Owens Corning.
I said in my earlier comments that I am as disappointed as anybody with the roofing results that we’ve seen this year and in particular the overall impact on our financial results.
I actually look at our overall execution scorecard for the year and I see very very high marks virtually everywhere on our execution scorecard with the notable exception of roofing prices and roofing margins.
So we really had one variable that we’ve been managing across the entire company that I think has cast the bit of a cloud across the entire performance of the business.
Our goal in these calls is to try to balance out that perspective and make sure people really do see the great things that are happening inside our insulation business the great things that are happening inside our composites business and also the people continue to have confidence in what a great business roofing is and that our efforts to get roofing performing at very high levels we believe ultimately will go rewarded.
Owens Corning is the better company when we have all three of our businesses performing at very high levels.
We have come through a period in the last five years where we’ve produced some results that we’re very proud of but they were very much dependent upon roofing and roofing only.
I think as we look at Owens Corning going forward we are expecting to deliver a broad and strong performance across all three of our businesses and that’s going to give us a little bit better diversification of where our earnings and cash flow come from and they also give our investors better ability to have visibility and see where value creation comes from inside Owens Corning.
So we are pretty happy with the progress we’ve made strategically.
We are happy with the strength that we are seeing to emerge in all three of our businesses.
We are happy with the way the Owens Corning team is executing and obviously job one in our to do list is to translate that into earnings growth in the coming years.
Thanks for joining us on the call.
We look forward to talking to you on the fourth quarter call.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Owens Corning Q4 and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants are in a listen-only mode.[Operator Instructions].
After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Please also note that today’s event is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Thierry Denis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us for today’s conference call in review of our business results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2014.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning’s Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-K that detailed our financial results for the fourth quarter and full-year.
For the purposes of our discussion today we’ve prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2014.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the earnings press release Form 10-K and the presentation slides at our website owenscorning.com.
Refer to the Investor’s link on the bottom right-side of our homepage.
A transcript and recording of this call and the supporting slides will be available on our website for future reference.
Please reference to Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today’s remarks will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
These statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially and we undertake no obligation to update these statements beyond what is required under applicable securities laws.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent risks and uncertainties affecting such forward-looking statements.
Second this presentation in today’s prepared remarks contains non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of a non-GAAP to GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release on owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period-to-period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effects of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the fourth quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 30% in line with our full-year effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2014.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who would be followed by CFO Michael McMurray Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our fourth quarter and full-year 2014 results.
Owens Corning consolidated revenue for 2014 was $5.03 billion flat with last year.
Full-year adjusted EBIT was $412 million compared to $416 million in 2013.
Full-year adjusted earnings were $208 million compared to $221 million in the prior year.
Fourth quarter revenue was $1.26 billion compared to $1.28 billion one year ago.
Adjusted EBIT for the quarter was $107 million up from $96 million in 2013.
And adjusted earnings for the quarter were $55 million up from $52 million in the prior year period.
I’m pleased that we’ve been able to grow EBIT in the fourth quarter and the second half despite a negative comp in roofing for both periods.
For the second half Owens Corning grew EBIT BY $24 million overcoming a $60 million year-on-year EBIT shortfall in roofing.
While full-year results were effectively flat at the revenue and EBIT levels I believe that we made significant progress in 2014.
We’re a better company when all three businesses are making meaningful contributions to our financial results.
While roofing took a significant step back last year it still contributed materially to income and cash flow.
Both insulation and composite showed strong year-on-year improvement and also contributed materially to our financial results.
Based on the strength exhibited across our portfolio we’re pleased that our board elected to increase our dividend pay by 6% to $0.17 per share.
Now as they do every quarter I’ll review of performances related to the expectations we set for the year.
And as indicated each year we said that we would continue to make progress toward our goal of creating an injury-free workplace.
The company continues to operate at a very high level of safety relevant to the industry benchmarks.
Owens Corning had 84% fewer injuries than the average manufacturing company when measured against the raids published by the US Department of Labor.
Recorded injuries were higher in 2014 than the previous year but our severity decreased dramatically.
We took the number of days lost due to injury down by 20% across the company.
In the insulation business we said that we would continue to realize the benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improve pricing and operating leverage.
Insulation achieved a profit of $108 million for the full-year fulfilling our previous guidance of $100 million of EBIT and one million lag U.S.
housing starts.
The insulation business also improved EBIT for the 14th consecutive quarter increasing full-year EBIT by $68 million.
Over the last three years insulation has grown EBIT by an average of nearly $70 million delivering operating leverage of 54% above our guidance of 50% operating leverage through the recovery.
In composites we said we expected improved market conditions and pricing to drive EBIT growth with improved manufacturing performance and higher volumes expected to offset higher rebuild cost in inflation.
The business delivered its six consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement on positive price trends volume growth and strong manufacturing performance.
For the full-year EBIT improved by $51 million.
Fourth quarter revenue was in line with the prior year and favorable price flat volumes to glass fiber and unfavorable currency.
In roofing we revised our outlook as the year progressed our goal for the second half was to restore our share of the market at historical levels and stabilize pricing.
Roofing achieved the second half market share objective through good execution in the fourth quarter U.S.
household shingle market declined mid-single digits with the full-year market down 4%.
Owens Corning’s market position was stable sequentially and in line with historical share levels on stable pricing.
In addition to these business results I wanted to review other significant accomplishments that have strengthened our company and positioned us well for 2015.
In November of 2014 we eliminated the building materials group level of the organization and streamline the company into three business units to better align with markets and customers.
The move will also reduce the complexity and cost of the organization.
Increased scope and accountability of jobs and provide growth for employees.
And Hewitt named Owens Corning to its list of top companies for leaders in North America in 2014.
We’re honored to be recognized as a company that excels at building and growing strong leaders.
For the fifth year in a row Owens Corning earned placements in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in recognition of our sustainability initiatives and was named the number one company in the world building products category for the second straight year.
With that let me now turn to 2015.
Our insulation business should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
We continue to expect average operating leverage of 50% through recovery with 2015 below guidance.
In composites we expect 2015 EBIT improvements commensurate with 2014 partially offset by the negative the impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar.
Once again the majority of our EBIT improvement should come from price.
The 2015 outlook for the roofing business will be largely determined by competitive pricing dynamics the timing and value of asphalt cost inflation and overall market demand.
We expect asphalt cost deflation to start coming through our cost structure in the second quarter.
Our goal will be to utilize a better asphalt cost position to improve margins versus where we are beginning the year.
The relationship of selling price to input costs through the year would be a significant determinant of how roofing performs relative to 2014.
In prior years we’ve provided full EBIT outlook for the company on this call.
This year we intend to provide that outlook later in the year once we have better visibility to the market demand and competitive dynamics in our roofing business.
With that I’ll now turn it over to Michael who’ll further review details of our business and corporate performance.
I’ll then return to recap and open the call up for questions.
Michael? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier Owens Corning is a better company when all three businesses are making meaningful contributions to financial results.
While roofing took a significant step back it contributed materially to earnings and cash flow.
Both insulation and composites showed strong year-on-year improvement.
Now let’s start on slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the year and the fourth quarter.
You’ll find more detailed financial information in the tables of today’s news release and the Form 10-K.
Today we reported 2014 revenues of approximately 5.3 billion substantially flat with 2013.
Sales of our insulation business grew by 6% primarily on higher selling prices and stronger volumes.
Sales in our composites business were up 5% primarily due to stronger volumes higher selling prices and favorable customer mix partially offset by foreign currency translation in the fourth quarter.
In our roofing business sales were down 11% resulting from lower volumes and lower selling prices.
In a moment I’ll review our reconciliation a guidance to get to adjusted EBIT.
Our primary measure is to look at period-to-period comparison.
Adjusted EBIT for 2014 was 412 million compared to 416 million in 2013.
Adjusted earnings for 2014 were 208 million or $76 per diluted share compared to 221 million or $1.86 per diluted share in 2013.
Fourth quarter 2014 adjusted EBIT was 107 million compared to the 96 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter of 2014 were 55 million or $0.47 per diluted share compared to adjusted earnings of 52 million or $0.44 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our effective tax rate on adjusted earnings was 30% which was at the top end of our previous guidance of 28% to 30%.
Depreciation amortization expense was 304 million for 2014 compared to 332 million in 2013.
Capital expenditures of 363 million in 2014 compared with 335 million in 2013.
Capital expenditures in 2014 were in line with depreciation amortization for the year excluding construction cost associated with our new U.S.
non-wovens facility.
Now on slide 6 let me reconcile 2014 adjusted EBIT of 412 million to our reported EBIT of 392 million.
As discussed in the first quarter we have adjusted our 45 million related to the gain on sale of our composite facility Hangzhou China.
In addition we've adjusted out 36 million of restructuring charges of which 27 million were related to previously announced actions and 9 million related to our November announcement of organizational changes made to streamline our management structure and reduce cost.
We've also adjusted our 23 million of charges related to the sale of our European machinery products business and the final charges associated with our European asset restructuring.
Finally we've adjusted out 6 million in final cost related to the flood that occurred in October 2013 at our New Jersey roofing facility as a result of Hurricane Sandy.
Now please turn to slide 7 we’ll provide a high level review of adjusted EBIT performance comparing the full year 2014 with 2013.
Adjusted EBIT declined by 4 million a 68 million improvement in our insulation business and a $51 million improvement in our composites business were offset by $154 million decline in our roofing business.
General corporate expenses were $31 million lower versus the prior year primarily due to lower performance-based compensation.
With that review of key finance results I ask you to turn to slide 8 we’ll provide a more detailed review of our business results beginning with our insulation business.
Insulation sales for the quarter are 490 million were up 5% from the same period a year ago on stronger volumes and improved pricing.
The business delivered EBITDA of 46 million in the fourth quarter compared to 39 million in the same period one year ago.
Insulation has delivered 14 consecutive quarters of EBIT improvement on strong price realization improved volumes and manufacturing productivity.
For the full year insulation sales of 1.7 billion were up 6% compared to 2013.
EBIT for the full year of 108 million were 68 million higher than the previous year.
In 2014 the business achieved our previously announced goal of $100 billion or more of EBIT on 1 million lagged U.S.
housing starts and delivered operating leverage of 65%.
In addition over the last three years insulation has grown EBIT on average by almost 70 million per year delivering average operating leverage of 54% above our guidance and 50% through recovery.
In 2015 the insulation business should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential construction and improved pricing in operating leverage.
Expectations for 2015 U.S.
housing starts range between 1.1 million and 1.2 million units.
Market momentum is positive we would expect to deliver another strong year in 2015.
And while we expect to deliver revenue growth in the first quarter first quarter 2015 EBIT is expected to be similar to last year based on the time - income and expense items.
Therefore we’d expect to see the majority of our EBIT improvement to take place after the first quarter.
We continue to expect annual operating leverage of 50% through the recovery although 2015 operating leverage is expected to track slightly below our goal.
Now I ask you to turn your attention to slide 9 for a review of our composites business.
Sales in our composites business for the quarter were 464 million a slight increase compared to the same period in 2013.
Higher volumes and improved selling prices were offset by the impact of foreign currency translation late in the quarter.
Full year sales were 1.9 billion a 5% increase compared with the same period in 2013.
Approximately half the increase was driven by higher sales volumes remaining increase was attributable to improved pricing and favorable customer mix partially offset by the impact of foreign currency translation in the fourth quarter.
Selling prices continued their sequential improvement for the sixth consecutive quarter.
EBIT for the quarter was 53 million compared to 36 million in the same period of last year primarily due to improved pricing and favorable customer mix.
In composites this was our sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year EBIT improvement.
EBIT for the full year of 149 million compared to 98 million in 2013 an improvement of more than 50%.
In 2015 we expect global industrial production growth similar to 2014.
In 2014 the glass-fiber markets grew in excess of global industrial production.
In 2015 we again expect growth in the glass-fiber market however rate of growth could be below global industrial production based in part on weakness in applications that go into the upstream oil and gas sector.
For the full year from the expected delivered EBIT improvements similar to 2014 before the impact of foreign currency translation and pricing is expected to be the primary driver of EBIT growth in 2015.
At current spot rates foreign currency translations would negatively impact revenues by about 150 million and EBIT by about 20 million.
In 2015 rebuild expense and cost associated with the start-up of our new U.S.
non-wovens facility should roughly equal 2014 rebuild expenses.
The timing of rebuild and start-up activities will fall in the latter two-thirds of the year plus we’d expect first quarter 2015 EBIT for composites to be broadly in line with the fourth quarter of 2014.
Now I ask you to turn to slide 10 for review of our roofing business.
Roofing sales for the quarter were 340 million 11% decrease compared with the same period a year ago on lower volumes and lower selling prices.
In the fourth quarter industry shipments declined by mid-single-digits EBIT in the quarter was 32 million down 23 million compared with the same period in 2013 on lower volumes and lower selling prices.
Roofing sales for 2014 were 1.7 billion an 11% decline compared to the prior period driven largely by lower sales volumes.
In 2014 industry shipments declined by 4%.
For the year EBIT margins were 13% down from 20% in 2013 primarily driven by lower selling prices than lower volumes.
The roofing business achieved its commercial objective of historical market position in the second half of 2014.
The progress that began in the third quarter will sustain the stable pricing and share in the fourth quarter.
So far 2015 we have not seen the discounting an inventory build in the channel that characterized the first quarter of 2014.
This is consistent with the view offered on our third quarter call.
Our ability to sustain pricing in the early part of the year is critical to improving roofing performance.
Over the last three years the industry has shipped about 35% of its full year demand in the first quarter.
Given the lack of incentives we have seen so far in the quarter we should see a more balanced shipment throughout the year.
If first quarter shipments were close to 25% of full year demand industry volumes could be down as much as 25% in the quarter.
You’ll recall that we trailed the market in the first quarter of 2014.
Given our expectations to ship at our historic share position for all of 2015 we anticipate our first quarter 2015 volumes could be down more than 10%.
We view asphalt deflation as a constructive way to improve our margins later in the year.
Crude prices began dropping in the fourth quarter and accelerated dramatically in the second half of the quarter.
Based on historical data asphalt pricing typically lags downward crude price movements by two to four months.
In addition it typically takes two to three months for our asphalt purchases to move to our manufacturing process and translate into outdoor shingle sales.
Therefore we expect to see some asphalt inflation benefit in our financial results in the second quarter with the bulk of the impact in the second half of 2015.
This could translate into deflation of over 50 million in 2015 based on the current outlook for crude prices and return to a more normal relationship between crude and asphalt prices.
Finally as a result the fewer expected shipments in the first quarter and the anticipated decline in asphalt cost we deferred production in the fourth quarter of 2014 and in the first quarter of 2015 lower production combined with lower sales volumes could produce first quarter 2015 margins in the mid single-digits.
Now let me turn your attention to slide 11.
In 2014 the company continued its disciplined approach the balance sheet and capital management for the long-term benefit of investors.
In the fourth quarter we strengthen our balance sheet by issuing 400 million of 4.2% notes due in 2024.
The proceeds from the bond offerings were primarily used to purchase a portion of other high cost notes.
The transaction extends our debt maturities and reduces our future interest expense.
As a result of this tender offer we incurred a fourth quarter charge of 46 million associated with the extinguishment of debt.
The board of directors declared the company’s fifth quarterly dividend which included a 6% increase based on the company’s positive financial outlook and cash generation.
A dividend of $0.17 per common share will be paid on April 2nd for holders of record as of March 13 2015.
During 2014 we also repurchased 900 000 shares of the company stock for 38 million under a previously announced share repurchase program.
Since 2008 we have repurchased 18.8 million shares for approximately 545 million at an average share price of $28.92.
As of year end 7.7 million shares remain available for repurchase under the company’s current authorization.
As we balance our priorities for the future deployment of our free cash flow both dividends and stock repurchases will be important mechanisms to our current capital to shareholders.
With that review of 2014 results I now ask you to turn to slide 12 for our review our outlook for 2015.
Our current market outlook is for continued growth in U.S.
housing starts and moderate global industrial production growth.
Expectations for 2015 U.S.
housing starts range between 1.1 million and 1.2 million units.
Insulation end market demand and continued pricing actions should accelerate revenue growth in 2015 versus 2014 with operating leverage slightly below 15%.
In composites pricing is expected to be the primary driver of EBIT growth in 2015.
We are positioned to deliver an EBIT improvement similar to 2014 before the impact of foreign currency translation which at current spot rate represents a headwind of roughly 20 million.
We will provide full year EBIT guidance for the company once we have further clarity on the roofing markets the timing and value of asphalt deflation and related competitive dynamics.
Now please turn to slide 13 where I provide other financial guidance for the year.
We expect corporate expenses to be in the range of 120 million to 130 million which is in line with 2014 guidance at the start of the year.
The primary driver of year-on-year increase is higher incentive compensation associated with anticipated levels of performance.
Capital spending will be about 355 million including approximately 55 million of spending associated with the construction of our new U.S.
non-wovens facility.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about 310 million.
Interest expense is expected to be about 110 million.
Our 2.2 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for sometime to come.
As a result of our tax NOL and other tax planning initiatives we expect 2015 cash tax rate to be about 10% to 12% of adjusted pre-tax earnings.
Our 2015 effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 30% to 32% of adjusted pre-tax earnings slightly higher than our 2014 effective tax rate of 30% at the proportion of U.S.
based earnings is expected to grow.
Thank you.
And I’ll now hand the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I noted at the outset of today’s call Owens Corning is a better company with all three businesses are making meaningful contributions to our financial results.
Both insulation and composites showed strong year-on-year improvement in 2014 and contributed materially to our performance.
Roofing also contributed materially to both income and cash flow.
I’m pleased that our board of directors elected to increase our quarterly dividend payout by 6% to $0.17 per share.
We intend to provide full year EBIT outlook once we have better visibility to the roofing market demand and competitive dynamics in that business that should be later in the year.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Thierry to lead us in the question and answer session.
Theirry? Thank you Mike.
Jamie we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Just wondering if you could provide a little bit more colour on your comments around the leverage in the insulation business for 2015 and your comments that the leverage is expected to be slightly below the 50% run rate that we’ve seen so far in the recovery.
Is this mainly related to the one-off costs you’ve seen in the first quarter that’s going to weigh down the leverage in the business.
Or is there something else that we should be thinking about? Garik thanks for your question.
Both my guidance and Michael’s guidance that we continue to believe that 50% through the recovery is good guidance.
We've been trending a little bit above that our cumulative operating leverage over the last few years is a bit above 50.
We’ve said we believe for 2015 that we’ll be slightly below that 50 but we’ll continue to be at 50 through the recovery.
I think you’ve pretty much nailed it last year in the first quarter we did have some cost benefits related to better utilization of our assets that gave us a little bit better cost absorption and some other things.
And if you look at our sequentials last year in the first quarter we had a significant pickup from first quarter of ‘13 to first quarter of ’14 that’s actually given us a challenge in the first quarter comp.
It’s really nothing to do with the fundamentals of the cash the cash cost performance of the business or the revenue side of the business or volume side of the business it’s really timing cost benefit.
I would report that we had a fairly sizeable insulation price increase scheduled for early January.
I think that’s absolutely critical to our year end insulation and achieving those objectives is that we get off to a good start in terms of pricing.
And at this point 45 days into the quarter we feel pretty good about the market dynamic in terms of both volumes in insulation through the first quarter as well as what we're seeing in pricing developing early in the quarter.
Okay thank you.
And then my follow-up question is on composites.
You indicated that you anticipate 50 million or so of EBIT improvement for 2015 that’s coming through in pricing.
Could you provide a outlook on how much of that pricing have you already have secured through your annual contract and how much of that is still depended on your ability to get pricing as the year progresses? Yeah thanks Garik its Michael I’ll take that question.
So the one thing I’d like to point out is that in 2014 I think the composites business you had a really good year made a lot of progress in a number of fronts including getting price and also the assets rammed really well for the year.
As you know about half of our volumes are subject to annual negotiations those annual negotiations typically take place late in the first quarter late in the fourth quarter and early in the first.
I think we've made pretty good progress so far we're pleased with the progress.
And we’d say that it’s probably broadly inline with the progress that we had made last year at this time.
Our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks for taking my question and thanks for the details guys good luck on your coming quarter.
I guess the question I had is on roofing and recognizing that a lot of the water still has to flow under the bridge before you can provide more guidance if we look back at historical precedence where you have both a likely shipment decline but also a pretty sizeable deflationary benefit that’ll come to you that’ll accrue to you later in the year.
What have been past case studies in terms of promotional and pricing and for that matter volume dynamic and then I had a follow-on.
Okay this is Mike thanks for the question.
Probably the closest proxy we would have to the kind of environment we see in 2015 would have been what we saw in 2009 where we saw a big run up at oil prices followed by a very rapid decline.
So it’s a bit different than the kind of environment we see today because it was a run-up followed by decline as opposed to we’ve been in persistently higher oil prices now for three or four years followed by this decline.
In that cycle we did take price up as we saw the oil price inflation in the first half of the year.
And then as oil prices peaked and we started to see deflation the manufacturer with Owens Corning we kept prices relatively stable in the second half of ‘09 and margins widened out.
I think if you look at distribution economics that makes a lot of sense.
It’s difficult to the distributor if you’re distributing a commodity that’s deflating to make money because your inventories are constantly revaluing on the way down.
So our sense would be as we get into the selling season as we get into the second quarter which is when we think we’ll actually begin to see some of this deflation.
We're not going to see much of it here in the first quarter that as a manufacturer the opportunity for us is going to be to try to help our customers with the price environment that allows them to make some money on the inventories that they have and allows us to take some of this deflation and repair some of the margin issues that we encountered last year with the price cutting.
Now it’s a very different theory of the year than what we talked about 90 days ago.
90 days ago we came into the year thinking that we wanted to have a fairly quiet incentive season in the first quarter and then we wanted to see we couldn’t get price going into the second quarter.
We expected in that type of environment we might actually do reasonably high first quarter volumes in advance of expectations of increasing prices.
I think the environment we're in today as we're expecting not only quiet pricing environment in the first quarter but a pretty quiet volume environment.
And I think Michael talked about that today our customers have a bit of a wait and see approach to buying shingles and that makes a lot of sense because there’s not a lot of downside to them waiting to see.
But our view would be the best thing that can happen for us would be stable pricing coming into the second quarter which allows us to try to capture some of the [indiscernible] 33:33 deflation and get it to margin.
Mike thanks for the details and then a related follow-on two part quickly though.
Do you typically see customers de-stock at all? And so if you’re of the view that the cost of something is going to be coming down overall because the major commodity is declining that’s for the manufacturing cost do you wait and see? And if so how long and if the answer’s no that’d be great.
And then if we just look at the percentage margin that you’re guide to mid single-digit in the first quarter since pricing is stable should we assume most of that is just lost operating or that’s driving the lower margin? And thanks again.
Yeah let me address both parts of your question.
Well we definitely believe we're seeing and we’ll see a de-stocking behavior.
It’s not de-stocking in the classic sense in that I don’t think the channel is driving inventory down.
I think its de-stocking relative to last year where at this time of year we saw pretty much channel inventories beginning to explode with some of the incentives that caused the industry to ship about 35% of all the shingles in the first quarter when probably outdoor sales in the marketplace due to weather are certainly less than 25% of the year.
So we would have seen a fairly significant inventory build the last year our sense is that we would expect inventory to be relatively flat that we would ship about what the market’s selling.
And then purchase of the ramp up without the door as we start to see spring come and people want to re-roof their house.
That is causing some of the margin pressure that we talked about here in the first quarter.
As you might imagine as we saw oil prices coming down in the fourth quarter we tried very hard to drive our inventories down and reduce our purchases of asphalt in the fourth quarter to get our tanks empty.
As you could imagine in the first quarter since we're not yet seeing the asphalt price translate through into our purchases.
We're being very cautious about producing new shingles because our sense is those shingles could be high cost relative to the shingles we might produce 60 days from now.
So we're cautious in our production which I think is good news.
So it’s a little bit of a complex story in that we're really saying a good news we don’t think we’ll sell very much in the first quarter.
We're not going to make very much in the first quarter and all of that could result in an environment where we have opportunity at the end of the quarter on a year-to-go basis a lot of product left to ship on a year-to-go basis a lot of product yet to produce.
The products that we ship up with stable prices the product that we produce hopefully have much better economics than we currently have.
And that will be a way to get the business back on track and hopefully put up some decent comps relevant to 2014.
Thanks for all the details.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks very much guys.
I just want to revisit the insulation operating leverage question again.
You would mention that that you’re running a little lower did you mention that was tough comp in the year ago 1Q but if I recall the insulation business also has an Australian component if I’m not mistaken.
I was just curious is FX an issue at all in your guidance here for some of the lower incremental in that business or is it really just all about the year-over-year comp in insulation thanks.
Well let me clarify your comments regarding our insulation business outside of the U.S.
we have a reasonably sizeable building materials business which is primarily insulation in China which goes quite well with the Chinese currency has been relatively stable versus the dollar.
We also have a fairly sizeable inflation operation in Canada.
We report our segmentation of the business as North America and in fact the market operates somewhat is the North American market from production point of view.
I think most of our sales and our competitors operate our production networks.
As a North American network the markets are a bit separated because little bit different products little bit different building codes different sales organizations different customer base.
We do nicely in Canada it’s a good market for us.
We would have some translation loss on bringing Canadian profitability back to the U.S.
Our goal in the year would be to try to offset some of that with maybe a little bit of better pricing environment in Canada.
Typically we see on the margin U.S.
production coming into Canada and obviously the economics of taking U.S.
production into Canada have gotten quite a bit less attractive here in January of 2015 than they were in January 2014.
We actually have little bit long capacity in Canada.
So we tend to be able to service the Canadian market with our Canadian production and even have a bit of swing capacity that comes into the U.S.
So our view would be that there should be a little bit of upward pressure on cost for our competitors as they service the Canadian market and maybe we get a little bit of cost benefit of bringing some Canadian products into the U.S.
Okay sorry I misspoke about the Canada - sorry about that thanks for the colour on that.
The next question I had regarding is with respect to roofing.
First of all just a housekeeping item.
You mentioned 50 million estimated in benefit.
I just want to make sure if that was an annualized figure or if that was going to be just the back half impact.
And then I thought you also said something about asphalt prices hadn’t dropped yet and your tanks were still relatively empty.
Well I just wanted to make sure I heard that correctly was that a comment for today or year-end or did I just miss-hear that? Thanks.
Yeah so Michael made the comment in his prepared remarks that we were expecting to see $50 million or more of asphalt cost deflation in 2015 based on a set of assumptions.
So let me walk through that set of assumptions.
That is a 2015 benefit in the way we characterize this the assumption is that it takes two to four months and it depends on geography refiner slate crude slate all the variables that go into the economics of the petrochemical industry.
But we see about a two to four month lag from the time oil prices move to what we see in terms of the purchase price of roofer’s asphalt or roofer’s flux.
And roofer’s asphalt and roofer’s flux tend to be a bit more premium product than what you’d see on some of the paving markets.
So if you’re seeing paving prices you get a good read through and what maybe having with roofer’s flux but its not its not the same product.
So the real shift in crude where we saw the most dramatic drop was probably from the middle of November to the middle of December.
If you fast forward that two to four months that you puts you kind of from mid to late January to mid to late March.
So what we think we're in the window now we're across most of our facilities between now and the end of the quarter.
We’d expect to see asphalt prices that are priced off of lower crude input cost that materialize for the refiners in the fourth quarter.
We then said it typically takes two to three months from the time we bring asphalt into our tanks before we put that into production we obviously keep a safety stock of asphalt because you don’t want to run out of input materials in your operations we're trying to manage to our minimums today.
You then have a product line with a number of skews in it so you have to sort it through your inventory in terms of what you ship.
So it does take us two or three months to really work those economic through our supply chain.
So we’d expect to see low cost asphalt into our shingles and shipped some time in the second quarter that would produce $50 million or more of deflation in 2015 provided that asphalt comes down on that curve and then it comes down to its historical relationship to crude oil which is pretty much a parity type relationship once we get in the equilibrium.
Our next question comes from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi thank you.
Can you tell us where you ended the year in prices both for insulation and roofing on a year-over-year basis? I’m just trying to take into perspective the shingle particularly for shingles going to be down more than 10% just want to know what the getting price was relative to a year ago so we can kind of try and kind of figure out what we think Q1 roofing revenues will be down? Insulation prices are obviously higher at year-end 2014 than they were at the beginning of the year.
We did not have as much price increase in the first part of 2014 but we did have good price realization through the summer.
And we came out of the year with better pricing coming into January.
So we will come positively on price in January of 2015 in insulation but due the price we're carrying over out of 2014 as well as what I said in my prior comments to previous question good realization on the January 1st price increase.
On the roofing side of the business prices are definitely below where they were this time last year.
If you recall our narrative from last year we hung in there pretty tough in the first quarter and then had to adjust our pricing in the second quarter to the market reality.
So in fact our prices declined through 2014 but we're really stable from late second quarter through the end of the year.
In the first quarter you would see some channel mix and some other things that would affect our net average price we had a major price by geography and by channel.
As we look at price by geography and by channel we expect pricing in the quarter be relatively stable versus where we finished the fourth quarter.
And then the scenario you talked about earlier about not producing enough not selling a lot right now but potentially having a lot more to produce and sell later in the year and the impact on margins I think could be pretty interesting.
And that only work though if others are doing the same thing do you have any sense when you chatter out there and what your competitors are doing from a manufacturing perspective are they doing the same thing or are there others that are producing a bit more now.
Yeah I’m not really in a position to comment on what our competitor is doing I think that the basic math if you’re a roofing manufacturer input materials drive your cost and trying to time your production to make sure that you’re producing product at the time of the year when your input materials are most advantageous.
I would say that that’s I think a generally accepted conventional wisdom across the industry so I don’t think any of our competitors would have economics that would look different than ours or any of our competitors have a philosophy different than ours but I don’t know in fact what they’re doing.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie Securities Group.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi this is actually Ryan Hunter on for Mike first question about composites pricing how much of that was just carry over? So again so as I said earlier in my prepared remarks six consecutive quarters of pricing improvement.
So we're really pleased with that so clearly there’ll be some carryover that comes into the New Year.
We haven’t specifically quantified that.
And then as I said earlier we're pleased with the progress that we've made thus far in our annual negotiations.
And then in terms of your insulation sales up 1% year-over-year was there a hangover from pre-buy with this.
And on your positive pricing comments do this pertain to the fall increase or also from successful January price action? I’m not sure I caught all of the question our outlook for insulation really through the first half of the year was driven off of the amount of price we carried over into the year which is really from the summer increase as well as our expectations that we’ll have decent price utilization of the first quarter price increase which was really at Jan 1 increase through to first quarter and then into the second quarter.
So it’s those two pricing actions that are really affecting us the Jan 1 price increase was announced in the fourth quarter.
So you may be thinking that there were two price increases out there but there was a fourth quarter price increase it was effectively basically at year end.
Okay great that clears it up thank you.
Our next question comes from James Armstrong from Vertical Research Partners please go ahead with your question.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
In relation to your insulation business and the progression of inventories given your housing starts estimates are you likely to keep inventories lower into the back half of this year versus what you did last year? That’s something that we obviously spent a lot of time of time on in terms of our forecasting is trying to determine the timing of the inventory - the timing of insulation demand and then determining the production strategy that will give us the optimal economics.
I think we’ve talked in prior calls about the nature of glass melting assets that leverages very important in those assets.
And so if you get a melter running you want to keep it up and running and you want to run around the clock.
So typically because we see better second half demand than first half it almost is conventional wisdom coming into the year that we’re going to build inventories in the first half in order to keep our assets running and shift capacity effectively through inventory from the first half of the year the second half of the year and then out ship our capacity in the second half.
So that’s a fairly normal cycle expectations of growth the following year start to play into that because you need a certain amount of inventory each year.
And so that inventory’s going to have to grow as we have a bigger business so that we can continue to meet demand in the second half of the following year.
I think we will work in inventories down a bit in the second half of last year mostly related to volumes were just a little bit on the low end most of our estimates as we went through the year and so we started adjusting inventories in the back half.
We’ve said that the current estimates for housing starts are kind of between a 1.1 million and a 1.2 million.
I think consensus is 1 million 160 we’re kind of setting our production plans at the low end of that range and then giving ourselves some flexibility to be able to step up production in the second half to meet that.
But even with that we would build some inventory in the first half of the year in order to meet second half demand.
Okay that helps.
And then on composites how are you doing on getting to your goal of 75% of your facilities being low cost? That is a great question we’ve done a lot of work over the last four or five years on the composites portfolio both from a structuring point of view where we spend a fair amount of cash but also putting it in place new low cost assets.
And the business is essentially at a pivot point as we sit here today we’re in striking distance of the 75% low delivered cost goal.
If you take the closures that we announced in the third quarter so one in Japan and one in Canada it actually puts us above that goal.
So we’ve made really good progress.
We’re pleased with what we’ve got accomplished.
And kind of see ourselves at a pivot point as we move forward.
And maybe I’ll add a little bit of additional colour on top of Michael’s remark.
I think you also are starting to see a bit of that benefit coming through on the capital side.
And then I think you’ll start to see that benefit coming through our mid cash restructuring side.
So we’ve had a fairly sizable capital investment and cash restructuring cost in composites over the last five years in order to achieve that position.
Our guidance for this year on capital was around $350 million in capital but includes a $50 million investment for a new non-wovens facility.
In fact if you exclude that growth investment our overall underlying capital spending is below depreciation in our outlook for 2015.
It’s been a bit off time since you’ve been able to see us get to those kind of levels of capital spending and I think that combined with much - cash restructuring cost gives us not only a better outlook for composites cost position but certainly composites cash flow position.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust please go ahead with your question.
Due to some of your comments on distributor channel inventories on others and this push forward of demand is the industry facing a situation if there was strong storms or strong spring demand there’ll be shortages in the market? That’s a great question Keith and I would tell you that I’ve been around this industry for a long time.
That’s not an unusual condition for there to be shortages when storms hit in the spring it’s just hasn’t been the reality of the market for the last three or four years because there have been these big incentives in the first quarter to push a lot of inventory out there.
So I don’t know that you’d see nationwide shortages but given cautious inventory positions on the part of the distributors that we would see some big spring storm activity I think you’d some regions of the country with storm activity there would be short inventory.
And then depending on how the manufacturers played it you might find that the manufacturers take longer to respond with production to meet the needs of that market than they have historically.
One of the advantages we believe Owens Corning’s has is we kind of have a regional capability where we can make products that are combinable on the roof in multiple facilities.
And we call that the Regional Shingle Program and that sounds like something that’s fairly simple to do which is making black shingle in two different facilities that looks alike on the roof but it’s actually quite complicated and we have very good technology to allow to achieve that.
So we would believe that if we were to see some shortages and a lot of demand that it would not be just an issue us turning up one facility that’s maybe closest to where there’s shortage but we would be able to use our regional model to turn up production and maybe a couple of other facilities and have them come in and help and assist the facility that services that trait area.
So we look at that a lot that’s a lot of our planning.
I would say we are not driving inventories down to bare bones because of that reality you could be more aggressive than we’re being because of the idea that we want to be able to support our customers and certainly support people who are affected by storm damage.
But we’re going to be on the low end of what is a normal safe zone and I think you could - some shortages that we saw [indiscernible].
Second question composites business I believe in the fourth quarter from some type of settlement.
Can you discuss what that is and how much it helped the quarter? Yeah sure Keith its Michael it was a legal settlement in Japan about $4 million.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies please go ahead with your question Hey good morning guys.
Free cash flow for this year from a conversion standpoint was a little lighter than we would have thought.
I would imagine part of that is some of the excess inventory in the channel in your system.
Do you expect working capital to be a source of cash and how should we think about free cash flow conversion over the cycle? Well let me take a high level comment about free cash flow and then I’ll let Michael talk a bit about working capital.
One of the headwinds on free cash flow because we tend to measure against adjusted earnings is a lot of the restructuring costs that we’ve had in composites in fact were cash.
So the cash flow statement doesn’t lie if you have those costs and you adjust them out of EBIT and use that as the denominator you’re going to show a little bit weaker cash conversion.
I think that’s mostly behind us so we’re pretty optimistic with our tax position that if we can get to levels of cash restructuring and adjustments that really would start to come out of the numbers which we do think is for the most part behind us.
But at least EBIT conversion to cash flow will become better and then I made some comments about CapEx which then leaves you working capitals.
So I made comments about tax so we’ve got decent tax position EBIT translating through free cash flow.
And then where we are in working capital I’ll let Michael take that.
Yeah thanks Mike.
Working capital for 2014 was kind of broadly inline with the previous year.
As we look forward to 2015 well I won’t give you specific guidance it would be my expectation that on a finished goods perspective we make some decent progress in two of our businesses composites and insulation.
And then we’re going to be pretty aggressive with our suppliers as well this year and I’d be disappointed that on the favourable side we didn’t make some progress as well Okay that’s helpful on the corporate expense side regarding a step up in 2015 what’s driving that? Is that mostly pension expense I would have figured it’d be flat to down perhaps due to some of the streamlining you guys are doing at the management level? No no so good question and maybe it wasn’t clear in my prepared remarks.
If you go back a year ago we guided to about $120 million to $130 million of expense that’s what we’re guiding this year as well.
The biggest difference kind of year-on-year was in sense of compensation - that we’re hopeful and then incentive compensation comes back to a more normal level this year.
And related to the BMG group elimination simplification of the organisation we in fact do have really a decent cost realization out of that we’d be about $8 million to $10 million cost as a result of that move.
Most of that cost is - you reported up through the insulation business and the roofing business.
So you wouldn’t see that in the corporate number it does give us a little bit of earnings relief in roofing and insulation opportunity to invest in some growth program.
Hey Jamie this is Thierry I think we have time for one last round of questions.
And our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates please go ahead with your question.
Hi thank you.
Mike just on the asphalt assumptions that you’ve two laid out what does it imply that the cost would be down in the fourth quarter year-over-year? And then just based on the historical relationship is there anything you can think of that would prevent that relationship from holding? Yeah let me take the second part of your question first and then I’ll come back to the percent change.
Typically the time if asphalt is going to not trade in sympathy with crude oil that typically is in the summer.
And it has to do with paving and whether the refiners are incentivized to make more paving asphalts and how much government money is going to in the infrastructure and paving.
Because we expect the bulk of the movement in asphalt prices to start to come at about the same time where paving demand would start to ramp up.
We do think the refiners may have some options in terms of where they want to go with the bottom of the barrel or the heavier end of the barrel.
And we may not trade all the way back to the historical relationship of roofers asphalt to crude oil.
So that’s I think something we’re watching I don’t think that affect could ever be so large that we wouldn’t expect to see barely significant deflation over the course of the next two or three months.
But it could mute the amount of inflation that we see in terms of coming all the way down.
I think if you look at fourth quarter versus fourth quarter let’s say third quarter versus third quarter that might be a little bit cleaner in comparison.
I think if you took average crude oil price in the third quarter of 2014 you took the forward curve for crude oil in the third quarter of 2015 the ratio of those two numbers would be about our expectation of the percent decline we’d expect to see in asphalt.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then I’d just like to say on the composites business going on internationally as far as this uncertainty and slowdown in some of the regions.
Can you maybe just walk through which is in demand-wise across Europe and maybe China specifically? Yeah so I’d say our businesses outside of U.S.
are broadly inline with expectation.
Europe’s fine obviously we have the facility in Russia which is relatively small which is in a great environment.
But we actually think that we can actually turn that into an opportunity given its pretty low cost.
And China so far is fine.
And ladies and gentlemen at this time we’ve reached the end of the allotted time for the Q&amp;A session I’d like to turn the conference call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thanks Jamie well thank you everyone for joining us to the call today and with that I’d like to hand it over to Mike for some final comments.
Well thanks Thierry first of all we always appreciate your interest in our company and thank you for all those good questions.
Obviously we tried in this call to be very helpful in giving you an understanding of some of the opportunities and also challenges we’ve faced going into 2015.
When we look at the year and look at the keys to success for 2015 I think a lot of the prerequisites for a successful 2015 in insulation and composites are in place.
We feel like we have stable demand expectations of housing growth in the United States good pricing environment with decent comp share in the first quarter relative to the first quarter last year relative to where we were to the middle of last year predictable volumes that are giving us very good manufacturing performance.
And we’d expect to see the kind of momentum we’ve had in insulation over the last couple of years continue through into 2015 we’d expect to see the kind of momentum we saw in 2014 and composites carry through.
I think Michael talked about the offset that we’d expect to see that momentum due to foreign exchange obviously that’s a bit of a headwind.
It’s a translation issue for us though it’s not a strategic issue.
We tend to make product in the geographies where we ship it and sell it so our cost position and our asset base is well positioned to serve the markets where we’re competing.
The other side of the coin in terms of getting off to a great start in roofing is a bit more unconventional.
We’re seeing a great start in roofing this year would sound and look like weak volumes and stable pricing leaving us the opportunity on a year-to-go basis that coming out of the first quarter we would have deflating cost the ability to expand our margins with good volumes for the remainder of the year.
And then depending on the amount of deflation we see either the need for maybe some pricing through the second part of the year through the mid part of the year to make up for some of the margin we lost last year.
Or potentially an up deflation that we could overcome the headwinds that we’re experiencing in 2014 around price and get margins back to something that reminds us of the roofing business that we’ve come to love so much over the last couple of years.
So we think we’ve got our hands on the right levers in the business we’re off to the kind of start that would be consistent.
We’re producing a good year but at the same time I think we’ve tried to be very clear on this call that we have additional information that’s going to need to play out in our roofing market over the next couple of quarters before we feel comfortable in giving a full-year guidance.
That said the company’s in great shape we have a wonderful balance sheet great cash flow generation capability assets that are running at low cost and markets that we expect to grow over the next couple of years.
So we’re excited about the prospects for 2015 and beyond and certainly very happy to see all three of our businesses contributing materially to our financial performance.
As I said earlier and as Michael said this is a better company when all three of our businesses are performing at good levels.
And we’re on track to go from all three businesses performing at good levels to all three business performing at very good levels as we work through the next couple of years.
Look forward to joining you again on our first quarter call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference call.
We do thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect your telephone lines.
Good day and welcome to the Owens Corning First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Thierry Denis Director of IR.
Mr.
Denis the floor is yours Sir.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us for today’s conference call in review of our business results for the first quarter 2015.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning’s Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-Q that detailed our financial results for the first quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we’ve prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the first quarter of 2015.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the earnings press release Form 10-Q and a presentation slide at our website owenscorning.com.
Refer to the Investor’s link on the bottom right-side of our homepage.
A transcript and recording of this call and the supporting slides will be available on our website for future reference.
Please reference to slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today’s remarks will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
These statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
We undertake no obligation to update these statements beyond what is required under applicable securities laws.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent risks and uncertainties affecting such forward-looking statements.
Second this presentation and today’s prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of a non-GAAP to GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release on owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period-to-period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the first quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 31% in line with our anticipated annual effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2015.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who would be followed by CFO Michael McMurray Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our first quarter results.
Owens Corning had a good start to 2015 with first-quarter performance that was consistent with the expectations we set coming into the year.
Insulation continues to benefit from growth in U.S.
housing starts.
Results in Composites reflect strong execution and operational performance.
In Roofing first quarter revenues and margins were weak.
However the Roofing business did not experience the discounting and inventory build in the channel that we saw in the same quarter last year positioning the business to deliver higher volumes for the remainder of the year.
The company earned $60 million in adjusted EBIT for the quarter on consolidated revenue of $1.2 billion.
Adjusted earnings were $22 million.
During our fourth quarter 2014 call in February I discussed a number of expectations for sustained or improved performance across our businesses in 2015.
Let me review them now starting with safety.
We said that we would continue to make progress toward our goal of creating an injury-free workplace.
The company experienced an increase in recordable injuries in the first quarter with 25 recordable injuries compared to 21 in the prior year.
Safety performance in March and April has been much improved and we remain committed to improving our overall safety performance.
In Insulation we said the business should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
Insulation delivered EBIT improvement of $6 million.
The business has improved EBIT performance for 15 consecutive quarters.
First-quarter operating leverage of 25% was impacted by the timing of expense items and in-line with expectations.
I also want to highlight that today we announced an investment that will drive growth in our Insulation business.
In June 2013 Owens Corning acquired Thermafiber a mineral wool insulation manufacturer to support growth in the North American construction markets.
Thermafiber has been a great addition to our portfolio and has been operating close to capacity in a growing market.
Anticipating continued growth our Board of Directors approved a $90 million investment for the construction of a new mineral wool plant to be built in the United States and operational in late 2016.
In Composites we said we expected 2015 EBIT improvement commensurate with 2014 partially offset by the negative impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar.
First quarter Composites EBIT was $60 million an increase of $33 million representing the 7th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement.
Selling prices continued their improvement trend and the business is off to a strong start.
Results reflect strong execution and operational performance.
Our performance in the first quarter has raised our outlook for full-year results which I will discuss more fully later in my remarks.
In Roofing we said the outlook would be largely determined by competitive pricing dynamics the timing and value of asphalt cost deflation and overall market demand.
Roofing performance was consistent with our expectations delivering midsingle digit EBIT margins on lower sales lower production volumes and lower pricing in comparison to the previous year.
Shipments by U.S.
asphalt shingle manufacturers declined significantly during the first-quarter as we did not see the broad discounting or channel inventory build that occurred in 2014.
This is in line with our expectation of a more balanced distribution of shipments throughout the year.
Asphalt cost deflation has largely tracked with expectations.
We still expect full-year deflation of over $50 million with the bulk of benefit in the second half.
Now let me summarize the expectations we have for the remainder of 2015.
The Insulation business should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
We continue to expect average operating leverage of 50% through the recovery with 2015 leverage tracking slightly below that goal.
Market momentum is positive and we are positioned to deliver another year of strong growth.
In Composites we’re very pleased with our performance in the first quarter and expect to benefit from continued moderate global industrial production growth.
Based on a strong start to the year we now anticipate a full-year EBIT improvement of up to $45 million comprised of up to $70 million in improvement on a constant currency basis less the foreign exchange impact of $25 million at current exchange rates.
In Roofing we continue to anticipate a flat market for 2015 with a more balanced distribution of shipments throughout the year.
On our call in February I indicated that Roofing performance for 2015 would be determined by the timing of shipments stability of pricing and timing of asphalt deflation.
That view is unchanged.
With that I’ll now turn it over to Michael who will review further details of our business and corporate performance.
I’ll then return to recap and open it up for questions.
Michael? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier we are off to a good start to 2015.
We expect our Insulation business to continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
housing starts and results in our Composites business reflect strong execution and operational performance.
In Roofing we are positioned to deliver stronger volumes at better margins for the remainder of the year.
Now let’s start on slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the first quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today’s news release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported first quarter 2015 consolidated net sales of $1.2 billion which were down slightly compared to sales reported for the same period in 2014.
Net sales in our Insulation business increased $24 million primarily on higher sales volumes.
In our Composites business higher selling prices and higher sales volumes were offset by the impact of foreign currency translation.
In our Roofing business net sales were down 21% from the prior year primarily on lower sales volumes and to a lesser extent lower selling prices.
In a moment I’ll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period to period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for the first quarter of 2015 was $60 million down $17 million compared to the same period one year ago.
Adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2015 were $22 million or $0.19 per diluted share compared to $35 million or $0.29 per diluted share in 2014.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $75 million essentially flat as compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $56 million.
Now on slide 6 let me reconcile 2015 first quarter adjusted EBIT of $60 million to our reported EBIT of $58 million.
We have adjusted out $2 million related to the closure of two melters we announced last year; one in Japan and one in Canada.
As a reminder these actions will allow us to exceed our 75% low delivered cost goal in the Composites business.
Now please turn to slide 7 where we provide a high-level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing the first quarter of 2015 with the first quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBIT decreased by $17 million.
The $33 million improvement in our Composites business and the $6 million improvement in our Insulation business were more than offset by $60 million decline in our Roofing business.
General corporate expenses were slightly lower versus the previous year.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to slide 8 where we provide a more detailed review of our business results beginning with our Insulation business.
Sales in Insulation of $379 million were up 7% from the same period a year ago primarily on improved volumes.
The business delivered EBIT of $7 million in the first quarter compared to $1 million in the same period one year ago primarily on higher selling prices.
This was our 15th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement in our Insulation business.
As previously disclosed we anticipated that both EBIT and operating leverage in the first quarter would be impacted by the timing of expense items.
As we have discussed on previous calls we expect average operating leverage of 50% through the recovery although 2015 operating leverage will track slightly below that goal.
Looking forward we continue to expect the Insulation business to benefit from volume growth improved pricing and operating leverage.
Now I will ask you to turn your attention to slide 9 for a review of our Composites business.
Sales in our Composites business for the first quarter were $478 million flat compared to the same period in 2014.
Higher volumes improved selling prices and favorable product mix were offset by the impact of foreign exchange translation.
Selling prices continued their sequential improvement for the seventh consecutive quarter.
EBIT for the quarter was $60 million more than double compared to the $27 million in the same period last year primarily due to improved selling prices and favorable product mix.
In Composites this was our seventh consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement.
We had some positive contribution from specialty glass sales in the fourth quarter of 2014.
This accelerated in the first quarter of 2015 with stronger specialty glass sales contributing about $12 million of the year-on-year EBIT improvement.
We expect sales associated with this campaign to end in April 2015.
Looking forward we expect the positive momentum delivered in the first quarter along with higher base glass volumes to drive significant earnings growth in the second quarter but we expect results to be slightly down sequentially as a result of lower specialty glass sales.
For the year we continue to expect moderate global industrial production growth.
Based on a strong start to the year we now expect a full-year EBIT improvement of up to $70 million before the impact of foreign currency translation.
At current spot rates foreign currency translation is expected to negatively impact revenue by about $200 million and EBIT by about $25 million.
As a reminder on the fourth quarter call we said that rebuild expense and costs associated with the start-up of our U.S.
non-wovens facility should roughly equal 2014 rebuild expenses and that the timing of these costs would fall in the later two-thirds of the year.
As a result of expense timing and lower specialty glass sales in the second half of 2015 we would expect second half 2015 EBIT performance to be broadly in-line with the second half of 2014.
Slide 10 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing sales for the quarter were $393 million a 21% decrease compared with the same period a year ago.
About three fourths of the decline in net sales was driven by lower sales volumes.
Lower selling prices drove the remaining decline.
EBIT in the quarter was $20 million down $60 million compared to the same period in 2014.
More than half of the decline in EBIT was driven by lower sales and production volumes and the remainder was driven by lower selling prices.
Let me take this opportunity to set some context.
Over the period from 2012 to 2014 we experienced aggressive discounting and inventory build within the channel during the first quarter.
During this period first quarter industry shipments averaged about 35% of full-year demand and first half shipments averaged about 60% of full year demand.
If you look back over the previous decade a time period where we did not experience heavy first quarter discounting or the related channel inventory build industry first quarter shipments averaged about 25% of full-year demand and first half shipments averaged about 53% of full year demand.
On the fourth quarter call we indicated that if first quarter shipments were closer to 25% of full-year demand industry volumes could be down as much as 25% in the quarter.
You will recall that we trailed the market in the first quarter of 2014.
Given our expectation to ship at our historic share for all of 2015 we anticipated our first quarter 2015 volumes could be down more than 10%.
We believe there was limited discounting and less inventory build in the channel.
As a result we now estimate that industry volumes were down by at least 25% in the first quarter although official industry data has not been published.
Our shingle volumes were down about 20% in the quarter which would represent some recovery of first quarter market share.
We continue to expect a flat market for 2015.
Based on a more historical distribution of shipments for the year we would expect industry volumes for the first half of the year to be closer to 50% of full-year demand.
As a result we anticipate second quarter industry volumes to be up about 5% to 15% and therefore we would expect Owens Corning’s volumes to be up a bit more as we trailed the market in the second quarter of 2014.
During the first quarter the market environment was constructive as evidenced by limited winter discounting.
Compared to last year prices were down mid-single digits primarily as a result of competitive actions taken in 2014.
There were some sequential price movements as we made some competitive adjustments early in the first quarter.
Prices have since been stable and we have announced a price increase effective May 1.
We continue to see asphalt deflation as a constructive way to improve our margins later in the year.
Asphalt cost deflation has largely tracked with expectations although price declines flattened somewhat in April with increased paving demand.
We expect to see some asphalt benefit in our financial results in the second quarter with the bulk of the impact in the second half of 2015.
We continue to estimate that this could translate into asphalt deflation of over $50 million in 2015 based on the current outlook for crude prices.
Higher sales volumes combined with higher production volumes and some asphalt deflation would position the business to deliver second quarter EBIT margins similar to last year.
Now let me turn your attention to slide 11.
In the first quarter under a previously announced share repurchase program we repurchased about 340 000 shares of the company’s common stock for $13 million at an average price of $39.21.
As of March 31 7.4 million shares remain available for repurchase under the company’s current authorization.
As we balance our priorities for the future deployment of our free cash flow both dividends and stock repurchases will be important mechanisms to return capital to shareholders.
Our current market outlook is for continued growth in U.S.
housing starts and moderate global industrial production growth.
Expectations for 2015 U.S.
housing starts range between 1.1 million and 1.2 million units.
Now please turn to slide 12 where I provide other financial guidance for the year.
We continue to expect full year corporate expenses to be in the range of $120 million to $130 million.
Capital spending will be about $380 million.
This includes an additional $25 million related to the construction of our mineral wool plant.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about $310 million.
Interest expense is expected to be about $110 million.
Our $2.2 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
As a result of our tax NOL and other tax planning initiatives we expect our 2015 cash tax rate to be approximately 10% to 12% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Our 2015 adjusted effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 30% to 32% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Thank you and I will now hand the call back to Mike.
Mike? Thank you Michael.
Owens Corning is a better company when all three businesses are making meaningful contributions to our financial results.
Both Insulation and Composites showed strong improvement in the first quarter and contributed materially to our performance continuing their momentum from 2014.
Both businesses should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
housing starts and global industrial production as the year progresses.
We also believe Roofing is positioned to deliver improved performance for the remainder of the year.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Thierry who will lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Mike we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] First we have Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Congratulations on a strong quarter.
Thank you Stephen.
I wanted to start off – let’s start off with the roofing.
Obviously you gave a lot of detail and we are hearing some very positive things in the industry not least of which is the fact that you’ve seen pricing behavior as you head into the second quarter be much better not just on your account but also across the board.
I guess my first question is sort of just a general question.
Why do you think that you are seeing a more sort of let’s say defensive posture from the manufacturers in terms of sort of protecting their pricing and margins this year versus prior? And let me just throw out a possibility.
One of the things we’ve heard is that perhaps your margins are as much as 1 000 basis points better than your peers and so – your smaller peers particularly and so as your margin sort of get into the low teens it sort of causes the smaller players to sort of scrape along the bottom and maybe that’s what sort of driving it.
Can you just sort of opine on that a little bit? Sure.
I think the dynamic in the first quarter which I think Michael spoke to at length was a more constructive environment than what we’ve seen in the last couple of years where there was very less of discounting and a big inventory build.
I think the inventory build from our perspective is that manufacturer did not serve us well as we had to bring a lot of production into the early part of the year in order to service that and then we had kind of weak demand through the – in two and three quarters.
I think you’ve heard discussions from some of our customers in the industry talking about it didn’t necessarily serve them well and then it created a lot of inventory out in the channel and it was very difficult for them through the year to understand kind of where retail pricing is or where the pricing of the product should be in the marketplace.
So I think there were a lot of alignments in the second half of the year that many of the participants were unhappy with the level of profitability and level of performance both on the manufacturing side as well as the distribution side.
And from a manufacturer’s perspective we didn’t really have the economics coming into the early part of this year to offer discounts.
I mean we limped our way out of last year with margins that didn’t look like the kind of margins we’ve grown accustomed to.
And we certainly were hoping that we could get through the first part of this year with a little bit better pricing environment and then maybe use some of the asphalt deflation as a way to repair our margins which obviously were under pressure here in the first quarter.
The theory that – there are some advantage on Owens Corning as a manufacturer in the marketplace.
It would be hard for me to try to quantify that for you.
I would say we believe we have very good brands and very good products and that we believe that our products are able to be sold at a price premium than some of the other manufacturers in the industry.
We also believe we have very good manufacturing economics and very good material science which allows us to compose a shingle at very competitive costs potentially costs that are more competitive than some of the other players in the industry.
So you can get a little bit of higher price and you have a little bit of lower cost that’s obviously going to put even more margin pressure on some of our competitors.
So that would be our intention in how we run the business is to build competitive advantage on the product side both in terms of the prices we can achieve as well as the cost we manufacture and that should put some margin stability in our business.
So hopefully that is what we are seeing but we can’t know for sure that in fact that’s the dynamic that’s driving the current performance.
The next question we have comes from George Staphos Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning George.
Congratulations on the quarter and thanks for all the details.
Maybe following up on that question recognizing that there is good logic and rationale to understand why manufacturers would like to see margins improve in the roofing business.
Mike does there come a shipment threshold where maybe you start worrying about the asphalt deflation being able to repair margins and then perhaps being dealt back.
I know you are expecting from your commentary shipments would be up 5% to 15% in the second quarter with something materially below that begin to in your view question whether you could repair margins to the degree.
And kind of the question behind the question should we worry at all about what’s been somewhat of a weak start to housing starts hopefully most of that being related weather-related but nonetheless it is what it is somehow feeding back and to repair remodel and roofing over the course of the year? Thank you and good luck in the quarter.
Thank you.
So kind of the overarching assumption in our discussion today about the roofing business is that we are expecting the overall year in terms of manufacturer shipments to be about flat to last year.
And we do I think a pretty good job in our investor relations materials laying out the composition of the roofing market the portion that’s new construction the portion that’s reroof and remodel and then the portion that’s been driven by major storms.
And the way you get to the assumption of an overall flat market would be for new construction to be up slightly which is less than 20% of the overall market the storm market about flat to last year which was about an average or unremarkable type year for storms.
And then you need that core repair and remodel market to be about flat or maybe down just a touch offset by a little bit of growth in new construction.
So we are not really forecasting strong growth in any of the pieces of the market and we think the overall market goes sideways.
Now if that’s the case and we don’t have any indication today that causes to believe that’s not a good assumption most of what we are hearing from our customers is that they are out the door sales either through the first quarter through the first 15 weeks of the year including kind of what we’ve seen through April is that they are flat to up a bit versus last year.
So we think our customers are selling through at a reasonable rate.
Michael went through some math that said it’s not unusual for us to see shipments in the first quarter that represent about 25% of the overall year’s demand.
And that typically when that happened you saw first half shipments that were kind of 53% of the overall year’s demand.
That’s not the profile we’ve seen in the last three years.
So we take ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 I am sorry ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 and get a different result where those numbers were closer to 35% and 60%.
But if you go to the period 2001 to 2011 you get numbers more in 25% first quarter and 53% first half.
If we were that kind of profile we would expect to see a volume uptick in the second quarter.
We would expect to see our volumes track that uptick and I think that would be consistent with the assumption that the overall market is flat for the full year.
I think if we were to see volumes flat quarter-on-quarter you could probably get to still supporting I believe for the overall markets flat for the full year because that would say you’ve now shipped a quarter of the year in the first year a quarter of the year in the second quarter and then you still have half the year to go in the second half of the year.
We’ve seen some years where that’s the profile.
I think we probably feel more confident coming out of the second quarter if in fact we saw some growth.
I can tell you last year we saw our business really fall off a cliff at the end of the first quarter.
We had shipped a lot of volume into the channels by the end of March.
The channel was pretty saturated and we started the second quarter very weak.
We’ve seen a different profile because of the early start to the quarter this year.
In that we kind of came out of the first quarter and continued at about the same shipping rates in April that we were at in March.
So we don’t think we’ve seen any early indications that could cause us to believe that overall market is weaker than what we expect.
Mike it’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next we have Mike Wood of Macquarie.
Hi good afternoon.
You talked Mike about the roofing inventory being relatively low referring obviously to the lack of the incentive the distributors had to pre-buy but how are the manufacturers such as yourself building inventory ahead of the uncertainty as to when the demand from the distributors actually come given the unusual cadence this year relative to last year? Yeah.
We talked about this a fair amount on the fourth quarter call that we were coming into the year cautious about first quarter volumes and in fact ended up shipping even less than what we had anticipated.
So on the fourth quarter call we had set we thought the market would be down as much as 25% and then we would be down double digits or more.
On today’s call we said we think the market was down more than 25%.
Our volumes were down about 20% on the asphalt shingle side.
So we had a positive gap to the market we believe.
Although Michael did mentioned in his comments that we have not gotten the official report from the Roofing Manufacturers Association so we are working off a little bit more qualitative data on this quarter than we traditionally do and we relied a bit on some of the analyst channel checks and other things as well as their own competitive intelligence to believe that we think we are right that the market shipments were down 25% or more.
So all of that kind of gave us a bit of a positive gap which restored our position in the market but I would say overall the quarter was still a little bit weaker in terms of shipments than we had expected when we were on the call in February.
Net-net we say that’s a good thing.
Because of our perspective on this coming into the year we had planned lower production levels in the first quarter so production in the first quarter for us was well below 2014 levels.
So our inventory position is improved versus where we would have been had we produced at the levels we were out last year.
That gets us quickly through layers of asphalt cost so we can start getting more quickly to maybe some lower cost asphalt but that’s still going to be on a lag.
It takes two to four months for oil prices to get through the refinery it takes two or three months for asphalt cost to get through our supply chain and get to the market and show up in our economics.
So we are not really looking at significantly improved economics in the second quarter from an asphalt cost point of view but we are going to get some improvement by taking production levels up a bit because we were pretty disappointed from a production point of view in the first quarter.
Understood but there is no issue.
You are ramping up production to meet that potential pre-buy ahead of the nay demand or to meet price increase.
I guess that’s what I am really just trying to ask if there is issues in production? If there is a thing like in the math? Where we sit today we feel comfortable.
We’ve got the flexibility in both our inventory position and our productive capacity to be able to meet surges in demand.
I think probably the one outlier on that would be potentially if you saw some big storms.
That tends to stress regional assets.
So while on making comments nationally then I think broadly or probably correct for us.
And I would say probably for most of the other manufacturers you do see if you have a concentration of storms in a specific geography that might stress one region’s ability to service demand.
But generally I would say that it’s still a free supply type environment in terms of capacity.
Next we have Kathryn Thompson of Thompson Research Group.
Hi thank you for taking my questions today.
We’re going to switch from roofing over to composites.
First it is a two-part question.
First could give you a little bit more color on the higher mix of specialty glass in quarter and why you will see this dissipate as we progress into 2015? And then the second leg of the composite question is how much of the new European Chinese composite imports helped in the quarter versus just core improvement in the European market in it of itself.
Thank you.
Hi Kathryn it’s Michael.
I’ll take that question.
So we called out actually that there were a fair amount of specialty glass sales in the quarter.
I actually gave some specifics to that that was in the quarter itself on a year-on-year basis it added about $12 million of EBIT.
Some of our specialty glass volumes and some of our specialty glass sales can be kind of lumpy throughout the year.
And this specific campaign ramped up late last year that the bulk of the sales were in the first quarter this year and it will ramp down in April.
That said we are pleased with the quarter overall.
We’ve made a lot of progress on a number of fronts both from a manufacturing point of view volumes in general.
So volumes in general across the regions and across our various lines of business were pretty good.
Save the step that we pointed out in the fourth quarter that we expected to be a little bit weak which was roofing volumes obviously were a bit weak in the first quarter and then we said that oil and gas demand was going to be a bit weak as well.
And then your second quarter was related to the anti-dumping in Europe and specifically how that’s helping us.
I don’t think I can quantify it specifically for you but I think clearly the Euro versus the dollar and the Euro versus the RMB is helpful for our composites business in Europe and then the anti-dumpiness is helpful as well but I can’t quantify for you specifically.
Okay thank you very much.
Next we have Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Yes.
My question is in insulation.
Can you talk about the pricing increases in insulation in residential versus your industrial and commercial was there variation there? Yeah thanks Keith.
We had a price increase kind of late 2014 early 2015.
It spread across most of our fiberglass product lines.
There was a little bit different levels of price announced in the residential markets where the price increases that were announced where kind of in the mid-teens.
The industrial type markets tend to damp a little bit lower price announcements.
In the fourth quarter call which was in the middle of February we had some visibility to how that was progressing and we characterized it at that time as we were seeing pretty good realization of the price increases that we had announced in the first quarter.
I would say that our view on that is pretty much unchanged from where we were 90 days ago.
The number was 2% on round numbers 2% struck me as kind of low given what seems to be going out of residential insulation and you breakout what the price change was in residential insulation in the first quarter.
Yes.
So if I understand your math we talked about the primary driver of improvement for the quarter and insulation was price insulation improved by about $6 million of EBIT.
So if you take that $6 million of EBIT on the entire business you’re going to get a number like 2%.
There is a lot of moving pieces inside that Insulation segment so we have geographic mix we’ve got obviously Canada is an important business for us.
Asia is an important business for us.
We also have some non-fiber glass products where we make some extruded polystyrene foam products which were not included in some of the price announcements that we had made in the early part of this year.
So in total I think you have to look across the whole portfolio of businesses inside that segment as well as the timing of the increases and I think probably doing the math the way you did it and I understand how you come to that conclusion and conclusion that we only got two points of prices probably on the low end where we would think pricing is in the market today.
Garik Shmois Longbow Research.
Just a follow-up question on Composites and the mix benefit in the quarter.
And I think it implies that there is an additional $8 million of favorable mix in addition to the specialty glass benefit.
Can you talk about how we should think about mix as it relates to your improved Composites guidance for the year specifically how much additional mix is baked in? Yes.
That is a good question Garik.
So I spoke specifically around the $12 million of mix related to specialty glass and if you take a look at our queue for the first quarter and pick it apart you will see that in total there is about $20 million coming from favorable mix.
Now if you think about our portfolio of business clearly roofing sales or glass that goes into roofing is down pretty significantly in the first quarter that’s a lower calorie business for us.
And then – but overall volumes are up for the quarter and so we are actually selling more higher calorie glass and less lower calorie glass both in the first quarter.
And excluding the specialty glass that I called out we probably expect some of that trend to continue for the balance of the year but we haven’t given specific guidance for the year on mix.
Okay thanks.
And then just quickly on Insulation.
The mineral wool capacity addition can you provide a little bit of context on how much additional capacity this might provide for you moving forward? Let me make one additional comment on Michael’s answer to your question about Composites and then I will talk for a moment about mineral wool.
We did upgrade our outlook for Composites today.
We had previously said that that we thought the business would track about the same amount of improvement versus prior year on a constant currency basis and then would have a currency headwind today.
We upgraded the amount of improvement.
We also increased the amount of currency headwind to produce some $45 million net improvement year-over-year in the guidance we gave today.
Big part of that upgrade is exactly what Michael spoke to in his answer to your question which is we came into the year pretty certain that we were going to have some volume headwinds in the roofing side of the business as well as the oil and gas side in the U.S.
I think we came out of the quarter feeling pretty good about what we have seen in terms of demand in the other parts of the business that we actually did show growth in tonnage or dollars in the first quarter and I think that’s really where the improved dollars come from.
So we are pretty happy right now with where the composites demand is relative to where we think it could have been given a couple of the headwinds we have and that’s really the primary driver of the upgrade in our outlook there.
Related to the mineral wool capacity we are building a scale facility here so with the board’s approval of the expenditure we will build a facility that gives us good capacity there are loses to cover.
In different parts of the market we see there is a decent amount of opportunity out there in the commercial construction market.
There is some opportunity in the residential construction market although not as big but growing at a reasonable pace and then there is also some opportunity in the industrial type markets where we also participate in fiberglass.
So we are going to build an asset that gives us the flexibility to be able to have some capacity across those markets and because of that and because of our foot print in those market the capacity that we put in will more than double what we have in the mineral fiber market.
Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Good morning.
What’s the early rate on the May roofing price increase and what kind of feedback are you getting from the distributors are you seeing pretty good support from industry overall? Yeah.
First of all it is generally our practice not to kind of talk perspectively or speculate on what we are seeing in terms of price increases.
So I’m not going to be able to answer your question directly.
The one thing I would say is there has been a fair number of price increase announcements on the part of the distributors who we sell to and I think generally it’s viewed in the industry that if you have price environment where prices are going up that’s good for our customers and it’s good for us.
Whether in fact you know that’s something we are able to achieve here in the second quarter something to be seen.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
The reason why asked you is when I look at your 2Q guidance for flattish type roofing margin year-over-year it seems fairly conservative because if your volumes are up 5 to mid-teens and you got to lower some benefit from lower asphalt what’s the missing piece because if you are getting any type of pricing it just seems somewhat conservative but just want to figure it out get a better feel for what the I guess assets are? Well I mean just to make sure that we are clear in our guidance on this.
In Michael’s comments he said he expected that second quarter roofing margins would be similar to the roofing margins we produced in the second quarter of last year.
In the second quarter of last year roofing margins were quite a bit better than the roofing margins we just delivered in the first quarter.
So the first we here we were kind of mid-single digits to last year in the second quarter we were low teens.
We were expecting that better production shipping a little bit more volume and maybe starting to see a little bit of asphalt cost deflation would be the steps that would help us get there plus potentially more positive price environment.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates Hi thank you guys.
First question just wanted to be on Insulation can you just walk through what’s happening on the home center channel right now I know you won some business at Lowes and maybe help us understand where you are in the load end of that business and if there is any offset to expect through the year on the other side from Home Depot? Yeah.
The – I don’t remember which call we talked a little bit about home center so let me give you an update on that.
What I would say is probably 5 years or 6 years ago I don’t remember the exact date we really saw a big trend in the home center channel to kind of go single brand and at that point in time we were a 100% in our roofing business with Lowes and we were a 100% in our insulation business with Home Depot and our competitors obviously had the Home Depot roofing business and our competitors had the Lowes insulation business.
I think Home Depot probably has led a bit of a move away from that strategy and towards a multi-brand strategy so we went through wind reviews with most of major home centers last year where they looked at all the manufacturers.
What came out of that is we did see some insulation volume at Home Depot go to our competition.
We also did pick-up some locations at Lowes.
So we now have both those home centers with Owens Corning insulation in their stores.
We have not commented on kind of what the net of that was but I think what you see now is both of them have us in and a secondary brand or another brand in the home center.
We really experienced kind of the same thing on the roofing side of the business as well which is we had had a 100% of Lowes business.
They’ve now brought one of our competitors in and so they are now multi-line in the roofing business and we were able to get better business at Home Depot and we’ve got some Home Depot stores now.
So I think it was a tense time obviously for us these are big and very very important customers to us and we believe we enjoy very good relationships with both of them.
We also think we do a very good job in the Home Center channel of supporting them at the store level.
So we weren’t surprised that we were given the opportunity to do business with both of them and we would be able to win business with both of them.
So we were very happy with the outcome and I think we’ve gotten through to a fairly stable result.
That’s very helpful.
I can just if you don’t want to speak to the net benefit are both retails chains set now with the new allocations? Yeah I mean this is you work through this you tend to work on a – at least in the building materials category you tend to work on a regional basis with the home center so they will give you a region all of that has been identified.
The regions that we lost you know we’re seeing our volumes come out of those regions where we are no longer shipping those stores of the regions that we won.
We are seeing that we are beginning to ship into those.
So I think that the timing of either benefit or loss for us will for the most part offset as we go through the year.
Next we have James Armstrong of Vertical Research Partners.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Could you talk a little bit more about the specialty glass in composites? What end markets are you seeing the most strength from? Yeah thanks James it’s Michael.
The specialty glass business for us I mean – so it is a global business and represented in the Americas Europe and China or Asia-Pacific.
One of the area that’s been strong this year versus last year is wind.
And so this type of glass tends to be high-strength and have different performance characteristics and go into more sophisticated applications than you’d see in some of our lower-priced glass.
But it’s global and we’ve seen some strength for specialty glass really kind of evenly across the entire globe.
Okay.
Mike anything you want to add? I guess the only thing I would add is I mean I think Michael characterized it as these tend to be glass formulation driven so we make a lot of different product forms but then occasionally we will have a customer in the end market that will come to us and say can you actually change the formulation of the glass and create a glass chemistry that gives them different performance characteristics normally around strength.
And because of that when you change the glass formulation in a melter you go through a transition period where you don’t make very good glass for a period of time you were on a bit of a campaign where you then make glass that meets the specification and then you have to transition back out of that which is why this business when we have the opportunity to make some speciality glasses for a customer it tends to be a very good opportunity from a profitability point of view.
But operationally we think we are advantaged in this market because we have the largest fleet of melters in the world we have the ability to kind of reassign assets.
And so we tend to be very open in the marketplace that if you have a need and we could make you a glass we would like to have the opportunity to see if we can make something that would fit your needs.
And some of these are very long cycle cells where we go two or three years working on a project and eventually we have a couple or three months of production.
So we knew coming into the year that we were going to have good speciality glass performance in the first quarter.
The fact that we produced this result in the first quarter had really no bearing or impact on upgrading our guidance.
This was included in the way we saw the year coming into the year.
It’s really the other things we saw in the business in the first quarter in terms of volumes operating performance pricing that cause us to get more optimistic about our outlook for composites.
Okay.
That helps.
With the 2- to 3-year lead times on these projects as we go into the out years are there other similar projects that you have in the pipeline? We would always have a group of projects in the pipeline based on the set of customers that we talk to in these markets.
A lot of times if it’s another place where you might see these types of products go would be say military.
A lot of it would come back to does that customer win the project and then they are going to turn on and come back to us and say okay can you make glass that would help us fulfill that.
So sometimes we are working with a customer who is also in a long cycle cell.
So even if we have a list of projects that we are working on that might provide an opportunity for us.
We don’t know whether those are real opportunities until our customer is successful in their long cycle cells.
So we called it out of the numbers today because we didn’t want the rate of improvement of the business to be at all misleading and in the second quarter Michael said that we think we will comp sequentially down a bit but we are quite optimistic about the quarter because I think if you pull speciality out of the first quarter we would expect to comp sequentially positive on a little bit better volume.
So the underlying momentum in the business is still quite good as we head into the second quarter.
John Baugh of Stifel Thank you and good morning.
I just wanted to confirm on roofing you’re talking about $15 million deflation in asphalt I believe for the year.
Can you refresh our memory roughly what the asphalt spend in 2014 was? And I know you don’t want to forecast roofing prices but is there any better view on how that delta between asphalt pricing for the rest of the year may look versus pricing? And what is sort of your oil assumption or asphalt cost assumption going forward? Thank you.
Okay.
I’m happy to talk that through.
So really our oil price assumption is no different than where it was kind of 90 days ago on the fourth quarter call.
The forward curve for oil has not moved appreciably.
And we’ve been giving our guidance and working off of the forward curve for oil assuming that those oil prices will be the price that the refiner will experience and that that will therefore drive asphalt prices.
We have a lot of data as you might imagine that goes back multiple years or decades on looking at the different relationships between the price we pay for asphalt and the price of oil based on different conditions what was the condition of the gasoline market or the paving market or the other potential end-use markets for the refiner and how did that influence that ratio of asphalt cost to oil cost.
Clearly coming out of the latter part of last year asphalt was quite inflated relative to the underlying oil prices and we expected that asphalt would start to trade in against oil.
We had not really began to see asphalt cost fall much even through the fourth quarter last year it was really starting at the end of last year that we started to see some prices from the refiner that indicated oil prices are going to come through our economics.
They are not working their way through our supply chain.
Our supply chain includes tanks of hot asphalts we then manufacture shingles from that asphalt we then carry a finished goods inventory of shingles and then we ship them.
So it’s not until we ship an invoice that we would start to see it come through our cost of goods.
So this part of our business is a fairly long supply chain.
We have a second piece of our business where we also process and sell roofing asphalt to other roofing manufacturers.
Now that business tend to be very much of a processing cost or cost plus kind of business where the changes in the economics of asphalt get translated directly through to the change in price that we sell the processed asphalt.
And as a result of that we don’t really put that into our price calculations that would really skew our price calculation that’s much more of a processing and pass through business.
In terms of our overall cost of goods we have not disclosed on that.
I think I can give you a little bit of help in today’s presentation on the roofing business slide we breakout which portion of the business is commercial and industrial versus which portion of the business is residential.
That 16% that’s commercial and industrial that tends to be the part of the business that’s much more us processing asphalt and selling it through the market.
So even though that might show up as being a portion of our asphalt purchases we would say asphalt deflation or inflation is – we’re relatively insulated from inflation or deflation in that portion of the business.
The remaining 84% is really our shingle and our accessories business.
So a sizable portion of that remaining 84% would be asphalt shingles.
Our real asphalt spend that would be driven off of this would be whatever portion of that 84% is our asphalt cost of goods.
But we have not disclosed on what percent of our overall cost of goods is asphalt.
Mike this is Thierry we have time for one more question.
Yes sir.
That question will come from Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
I got a couple of clean up questions actually.
On the composites side can you talk a little bit about the benefit in the quarter that came from or for the year that have come from the closed plants and in particular the volume? And then I would like to [indiscernible] the discussion exclude the specialty sales of specialty glass if we could? So Al is the question what’s the benefit that’s going to come from the closure of the plant in Japan and the one in Canada? Well throughout the commentary has been that you’ve benefited from manufacturing and operational improvements and I believe that included last year some closed plants.
So I don’t know if you can articulate it I was just trying to understand the benefit from an operational standpoint that you are getting that we should continue to see because if we look at what you did in the quarter and your guidance I think it implies closer to more of a 9% 10% type of segment margin.
I’m just trying to get the components of that.
Yeah Al this is Mike.
Let me try to put some color around that.
I think we characterized – obviously we doubled the EBIT in the quarter so we had a significant pickup from $27 million of EBIT last year to $60 million of EBIT this year.
If you add back the specialty or subtract out the specialty we still went from kind of $27 million to about $50 million.
So you’ve got more than $20 million of improvement quarter-on-quarter on relatively flat volumes.
Some of that improvement is coming from the fact that we have a little bit sweeter mix and I think Michael went into a good amount of detail on that which is our volumes were down in the end market for roofing and that tends to be a lower margin simpler product line and we are able to find enough business in the market to offset that decline and keep volume growth in the quarter in some of our more heavily engineered products where we can get better value and better margins.
So I think if you are looking for reconciliation kind of on that $20 million of improvement from last year to this year excluding specialty I think a portion of it is price and a little bit better mix in the volume we did sell and then a sizable portion of the remainder is are just manufacturing at lower costs and are operating better.
So you’re really now seeing I think in material ways the benefit of all the cost restructuring we are doing coming through in sustainable margin structure for the business and really I think a step change in the sustainable margin structure of the business.
That’s very helpful.
That helps.
And then finally on the mineral wool side is a fairly well bracketed in terms of the costs of this plant and getting this up and running? I think it was – you indicated it increased $25 million I’m not sure that’s the size of the spent for that facility but just talk about maybe a little bit of the -- I won’t say complications but what needs to get done? Is this a simple facility or is it a little bit more complicated? Thanks.
So we disclosed today that the overall cost of the facility will be about $90 million and that it would come into operation in the second half of next year.
In our CapEx guidance for this year we increased our guidance for the amount of capital we will deploy this year by about $25 million which represents $25 million of the $90 million.
So in order to get the project to be available for production and sales in the second half of next year we will now begin spending money on site preparation and improvements and some long lead items around equipment and we will see – we think about $25 million of that spend this year which will leave the balance or about $65 million in our outlook for next year.
This is the first mineral wool facility that Owens Corning has built so I’m not going to underestimate some of the potential challenges associated with this.
Although I would say over the course of the last 10 years since 2006 we built the new composites facility in China we built a significant increased capacity in Russia we are in the process of building a non-wovens facility in North Carolina we’ve done a lot of reconfiguration of our insulation assets to respond to the downturn.
So from an engineering and construction point of view I think we do a reasonably good job and we tend to hit our estimates.
So I am not terribly concerned on the capital side I think we can build it for this amount of money.
You always are focused and it’s very important that the start-up goes well and that you can get the equipment to run effectively.
If we were not able to do that that obviously would be would be a headwind in the second half of next year if we had a facility that had an opportunity to ship product and we weren’t able to achieve the production economics we expect.
We will have a big team of people very focused on making sure that we do that effectively.
So it is a risk like any other capacity expansion but it’s growth and one of the things that we’re very proud of and what we have been able to achieve over the last five years is a lot of the capital that we spent on behalf of our shareholders went into some very cash intensive restructurings in Europe it went into some capacity expansions in composites that offset melters that were not competitive that we had shut down.
So we did a lot of balance sheet work and investment to get our operations more effective.
We think we are heading out of that phase.
Our EcoTouch conversion in insulation was large done.
Our low cost conversion in composites is largely done.
We think the cash restructuring you can see has really come down to a very small number in our adjusted numbers and we are now actually starting to deploy capital towards places we can grow like non-wovens and like mineral fibers.
So we think it’s a positive mix because we are actually changing the EBIT generating footprint of our company by giving more top line opportunity and more bottom line opportunity to our investors.
Thierry was that – I think that was the last question.
So maybe I will make a few summary comments and then I will let you close the call.
Sure.
Thank you.
So let me just say thank you again for joining us on today’s call.
Obviously in my opening comments I said I thought we were off to a good start in 2015 we feel good about the underlying momentum in our composites and our insulation business.
I think both of them are beginning to look like the kinds of businesses we knew that they could be.
I think probably over the course of the last two or three years it’s been easier to see that progression in insulation kind of quarter-on-quarter as we put together 15 consecutive quarters.
I think the jury was maybe a bit more out on composites a couple of years ago.
We were very focused in our execution believe that we could get to low cost that we could innovate and bring some new products to the marketplace believe that we could extend some competitive advantage.
And I think the quarter we just put up is a bit of a down payment on our belief in that strategy and what we think that business can be for us.
So it’s heartening for the team here to see the progress in composites and see this quarter come through.
So really now our two big glass businesses that benefit from volume growth operating leverage and a positive price environment.
We’re really seeing those two businesses side-by-side with very very similar dynamics decent growth in demand providing operating leverage providing a positive price environment and really underpinning strong performance across the company.
We’ve always loved our roofing business.
For a number of years it was the game in town at Owens Corning where we were not making money in insulation or composites roofing was the business that got all the attention.
I think through the course of the last year when we had a challenging year in roofing we saw the portfolio balance out.
On the fourth quarter call I said I actually think that with the portfolio balancing out we now coming into 2015 with the believes that maybe we have an opportunity to see all of our businesses improve.
Certainly as we come out of this first quarter we would expect to see the businesses improving from here to the end of the year with roofing having better volume opportunities ahead of it and with continued improvement in terms of composites and insulation volumes.
So we feel like we started the year right one quarter obviously does not make a year and the company and the team have a lot of work to do to make sure that we deliver a great year but we were pleased to be out of the gates the way we expected and we would probably talking to you again on the second quarter call.
Thierry any closing comments? Thank you Mike and thank you everybody for joining us for today call.
And Mike the operator we are ready to close the call now.
Thank you sir and to the rest of the management team for your time today.
The conference call is now concluded.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and take care everyone.
Good morning and welcome to the Owens Corning Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Lora.
And good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us for today’s conference call and review of our business results for the second quarter 2015.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning’s Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-Q that detailed our financial results for the second quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we’ve prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the second quarter of 2015.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the earnings press release from 10-Q and a presentation slide at our website owenscorning.com.
Refer to the Investor’s link on the bottom right-side of our homepage.
A transcript and recording of this call and the supporting slides will be available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today’s remarks will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
These statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
We undertake no obligation to update these statements beyond what is required under applicable securities laws.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent risks and uncertainties affecting such forward-looking statements.
Second this presentation and today’s prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of a non-GAAP to GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release on owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period-to-period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the second quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 31% in line with our anticipated annual effective tax rate on adjusted earnings for 2015.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who would be followed by CFO Michael McMurray Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our second quarter results.
We are pleased with our second quarter performance as all three businesses made substantial contributions to earnings.
Composites had an outstanding quarter driven by continued strong commercial and operational execution.
Roofing experienced strong shipments and improving margins throughout the quarter.
Insulation continues to make progress with growth expected to accelerate in the second half on the recent improvement in U.S.
housing starts.
The company delivered consolidated revenue in the quarter of $1.41 billion up slightly from the same period a year ago.
We earned $156 million in adjusted EBIT for the quarter up from $96 million last year.
Adjusted earnings were $93 million up from $45 million one year ago.
At the outset of the year we discussed a number of expectations for sustained or improved performance across our businesses in 2015.
Let me review them now beginning with safety.
As in the case each year we said that we will continue to make progress of our goal creating an injury free workplace.
We achieved the 90% improvement over the second quarter of last year and we gained momentum in our safety performance.
We remained focus on an injury free workplace and are committed to improving our overall safety performance in 2015.
In Insulation we said the business should continue to benefit from growth in US residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
Insulation delivered its 16th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement.
EBIT for the quarter increased $7 million over the second quarter of last year driven primarily by improved pricing.
In the first half the business delivered operating leverage of close to 50%.
During our previous call I discussed $90 million investment for the construction of a new mineral wool plant to be built in the United States with capacity available in 2017.
We recently announced that the location will be Joplin Missouri.
This new capacity will help us meet the needs of our customers in a growing market.
In Composites we updated our outlook on the first quarter call and said that we expected $45 million EBIT improvement over 2014 including the negative impact of a stronger US dollar.
For the quarter Composites delivered $67 million in EBIT representing its 8th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement and its highest quarterly EBIT in seven years.
The business grew revenues despite currency headwinds of nearly $50 million.
Our year-to-date EBIT improvement is $63 million exceeding our prior full year guidance of $45 million.
Michael will update our outlook and Composites in his prepared remarks.
In Roofing we said the outlook would be largely determined by competitive pricing dynamics the timing and value of asphalt cost deflation and overall market demand.
The second quarter built on the foundation of the first quarter.
In the first quarter we saw lower production; lower shipments weaker margins and less inventory build in the channel positioning us for improvement through the remainder of the year.
In the second quarter the improvement we had hoped for was realized.
With better shipments better production lower costs and higher prices and significantly better profitability.
Before I move to our outlook for the business we had one other achievement in the quarter that I would like to note.
We are proud to release our 2014 sustainability report continue our industry leadership in this area.
As a report highlights we made good progress towards achieving our 2020 environment footprint goals.
For example we are now leader in the recycling of 2.4 billion pounds of end-of- shingles through our network representing a 33% increase over the previous year.
And this number continues to grow.
Currently there over a 100 major cities with recycling locations covering 60% of the United States population and allowing us to add the label shingles are recyclable to our packaging.
I invite you to visit our website in order to review the full details of the progress we've made on sustainability.
Now let me review our outlook for the remainder of the year.
We expected the insulation business should continue to benefit from growth in US residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
Looking forward recent housing data and current forecast of 1.1 million starts suggest acceleration in the second half which we expect to result in approximately 10% revenue growth during that period.
We continue to expect full year operating leverage to track slightly below 50%.
In Composites our actions to produce low delivered cost assets strong commercial operation execution and the tightening capacity environment position this business to continue the momentum we've established.
In Roofing the first half played out generally as we had hoped.
First half industry shipments were down mid single digits while our shipments were up mid single digits.
As a result our overall market positioned improved in the first half.
We continue to expect a flat roofing market for 2015 and our second half volume should track the market producing mid single digit growth.
We now have sufficient visibility to the market demand and competitive dynamics in our roofing business to provide full year EBIT outlook for the company.
In today's press release we provided an EBIT range for the full year between $460 million and $500 million.
We feel confident that we should be able to deliver Owens Corning's best EBIT performance since the peak of the housing cycle nearly a decade ago.
It has been our goal to get to the $500 million EBIT level and we think that it may be possible this year with continued fundamental improvement in the markets for each of our businesses.
We are pleased with housing they have gone in the first half of the year.
And we are optimistic about the opportunity ahead of us for the remainder of 2015.
With that I'll now turn it over to Michael who further reviews details of our business and corporate performance.
I'll then return to recap and then we will open the call up for questions.
Michael? Thank you Mike.
And good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier we are pleased with the performance of our businesses and our second quarter results.
Owens Corning is a better company when all three businesses are making meaningful contributions to our financial results.
Now let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the second quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the table at today's new release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported second quarter 2015 consolidated net sales of $1.4 billion up 4% as compared to sales reported for the same period in 2014.
Net sales in our Insulation business increased 1% primarily on higher selling prices.
In our Composites business higher selling prices and higher sales volumes were offset by roughly $50 million of foreign currency translation.
In our Roofing business net sales were up 50% primarily on higher sales volumes.
Adjusted EBIT for the second quarter of 2015 was $156 million up $60 million compared to the same period one year ago.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 2015 were $93 million or $0.79 per diluted share compared to $45 million or $0.38 per diluted share in 2014.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $76 million down $2 million as compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $95 million.
Cash from operations improved $74 million for the quarter compared to the same period one year ago.
On a year-to-date basis cash from operations has improved by $197 million.
For the year we expect to see strong free cash flow conversion of adjusted earnings primarily as a result of our advantage tax position and better working capital performance.
Now please turn to Slide 6 where we provide a high-level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing the second quarter of 2015 with second quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBIT increased by $60 million or about 60% over the same period last year.
Each business showed improvement year-over-year.
It is about an 80% or $30 million increase in our Composites business and about 40% increase in both our Roofing and Insulation businesses with improvement of $28 million and $7 million respectively.
General corporate expenses were $5 million higher versus the prior year primarily due to an increase in performance based compensation expense.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 7 where we provide a more detailed review of our business results beginning with our Insulation business.
Sales in Insulation of $451 million were up 1% from the same period a year ago on higher selling prices of $7 million.
The business delivered EBIT of $25 million in the second quarter compared to $18 million in the same period one year ago primarily on improved pricing.
This was our 16th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement in our Insulation business.
Volumes were relatively flat compared to last year on modest new residential construction growth in an elevated comp in 2014 resulting from increased buying activity ahead of the mid year price increase.
In addition we've seen some gap widened between US residential starts and completions which may have contributed to a somewhat slower market.
Over the past three months we have seen good progress from the starts perspective.
Insulation volumes picked up throughout the month of June and we are off to a strong start in July.
Looking forward we expect stronger volumes and financial performance in the second half of the year which should translate into revenue growth with our 10% based on the current consensus for US housing starts.
As we have discussed on previous calls we expect average operating leverage at 50% due to recovery although 2015 operating leverage will track slightly below this goal.
Now I will ask you to turn your attention to Slide 8 for a review of our Composites business.
Sales in our Composites business for the second quarter were $508 million up approximately 1% from the same period a year ago.
Revenue grew on higher volumes improved selling prices and favorable product mix despite currency headwinds of almost $50 million.
On a constant currency basis revenues would have grown about 10%.
Selling prices continued their sequential improvement for the eight consecutive quarters.
EBIT for the quarter was $67 million almost double compared to the $37 million in the same period last year.
These strong results were driven by higher selling prices higher volumes and strong manufacturing performance.
EBIT results were partially offset by the impact of $8 million of foreign currency translation.
This represents our eight consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement and the highest quarterly EBIT in seven years.
We are pleased with the progress that we have demonstrated in Composites business over the past two years including improvements in operating margins and return on capital.
The actions we've taken to achieve a low cost manufacturing network in the tightening capacity environment position this business to continue the momentum we've established over the past eight quarters.
Over the past couple of years we have pursued a strategy to support future growth with supply alliances.
We are recently expanding an existing supply line for the China based manufacture which will benefit 2016 and beyond.
We will incur some additional implementation cost associated with this agreement in the second half.
As a reminder we previously said that majority of our 2014 rebuild expenses and cost associated with the start up of our US non-wovens facility which falls in the second half of the year.
As a result of these items and lower specialty glass sales in the second half of the year we expect lower EBIT in the second half of 2015 versus the first half and second half EBIT to be broadly in line with the second half of 2014.
For the full year we continue to expect moderate global industrial production growth.
Based on the strong results for the first half of the year we now expect full year EBIT improvement of about $60 million at current foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency translation is expected to negatively impact revenue by about $200 million and EBIT by about $25 million for the full year.
Slide 9 provides an overview of Roofing business.
Roofing sales for the quarter were $503 million a 15% increase compared with the same period a year ago primarily on higher sales volume.
EBIT in the quarter was $90 million up $28 million compared to the same period in 2014.
Roofing delivered 18% EBIT margin in the second quarter.
Higher than anticipated volumes in the quarter improved production leverage and accelerated the asphalt deflation which totaled about $80 million.
These benefits with some improvement to sequential pricing resulted in higher margins than previously guided.
We are pleased with the performance of our Roofing business.
And the first half of the year has played out generally as we had hoped.
We saw limited discounting and less inventory build early in the year.
We experienced improved volumes and better sequential pricing in the second quarter but asphalt deflation tracking broadly in line with expectations.
As you recall from our first quarter call we thought that the industry volumes would be down at least 25% in the first quarter without the benefit of no industry shipment at that time.
In fact first quarter shipments were down 35% and as a result second quarter shipments were stronger than anticipated.
We were pleased to see a strong rebound in the second quarter with market growth of just over 40%.
Our volumes slightly trailed the market as a result of geographic and channel mix.
For the first half we are pleased that we improved our overall market position.
As a reminder volume growth as calculated in our 10-Q includes Roofing accessories and the sale of asphalt to third parties and it is not comparable to US asphalt shingle volume growth.
We continue to expect the flat market for US shingle shipments in 2015.
First half industry shipments were down mid single digits while our shipments were up mid single digits representing a nice recovery in our position for the first half of 2015.
We now expect industry volumes for the first half of the year to be a bit more than 55% a full year demand versus the 50:50 split we discussed in our previous earnings call.
We would also expect our second half volumes to broadly track and the market and therefore grow mid single digit versus the last year on a flat full year market.
We continue to see asphalt deflation as a constructive way to improve our margins in 2015.
As I highlighted on our first quarter call asphalt price decline flatten in late spring with increased paving demand.
Asphalt deflation has largely tracked with expectations and we continue to expect asphalt deflation of over $50 million in 2015.
Now let me turn your attention to Slide 10 which provides an overview of significant financial matters and our outlook for 2015.
The Company's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.17 per share payable on August 4 2015 to shareholders of record as of July 20 2015.
In the second quarter under previously approved announced share repurchase program we repurchased about 700 000 shares of the company stock for $28 million at an average price of $39.70.
As of June 30 6.6 million shares remain available for repurchase under Company's current authorization.
As we balance our priority for the future deployment of free cash flow both dividends and stock repurchases will be important mechanism to return capital to shareholders.
Our market outlook is for a continued growth in US housing starts and moderate global industrial production growth.
Expectations for 2015 US housing starts are at 1.1 million units.
Now please turn to Slide 11 where I provide financial guidance for the year.
Based on results we have delivered today and our outlook for the balance of the year we expect full year EBIT between $460 million and $500 million with most of the variability driven by the Roofing business.
We now expect full year corporate expenses to be at the bottom of the $120 million to $130 million range.
Capital expenditures are expected to total approximately $380 million.
Depreciation and amortization expenses are expected to be about $310 million.
We expect interest expense to be about $110 million.
Our $2.2 billion US tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
As a result of our tax NOL and other tax planning initiatives we expect our 2015 cash tax rate to be approximately 10% to 12% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Our 2015 adjusted effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 30% to 32% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Thank you.
And I'll now hand the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I noted of the outset at today's call Owens Corning's success in the second quarter was a result of positive execution in all three of our businesses.
We are pleased with our progress in Insulation record EBIT margins and deposits and stronger volumes and improved margins in Roofing.
Given the significant progress in Composites and Roofing combined with our expectation in Insulation we will continue to benefit from growth in US housing starts.
We expect full year EBIT in a range of $460 million to $500 million with most of the variability within this range driven by the Roofing business.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Thierry who lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Lora we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
And our first question will come from Mike Rehaut of JP Morgan.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
First question I had was on Roofing and obviously had nice improvement in the margins there so congrats on that.
Two questions.
One if you could describe the pricing environment currently.
I believe you said that they were up a little sequentially but on a year-over-year basis it appears that they were down I believe 10% versus down 5% in the first quarter.
And also in terms of the -- secondly in terms of the asphalt deflation I believe you said that was $18 million for the quarter and that you still expect over $50 million for the full year.
So it would seem like the 2Q if you just apply a run rate on that for 3Q -- over the next two quarters apply the same quarterly run rate that it would seem that the third and fourth quarters would be similar to the second quarter I just want to make sure I am thinking about that correctly.
Okay thanks Michael.
Let's talk about pricing first and then I'll talk little about asphalt deflation.
I think in the context we are in today it is much easier to discuss pricing sequentially than it is versus last year.
So Mike a few comments versus the last year but I think it is probably more relevant to talk about pricing sequentially.
What we are reporting today is that prices in the second quarter were sequentially improved versus the first quarter.
So what we said on the first quarter call was we are looking for better production levels better shipment levels higher prices and lower costs and in fact we saw that which really underpin the improvement in operating margins we saw from 5% or so in the first quarter 18% in the second quarter.
We think that's critical our outlook for the second half and we do think that volumes in total on the second half will probably trail bit volumes in the first half.
But we are seeing that the launching point to the second half we have a much better margin rate coming out of the second quarter than what we had at last year or where we ended this year.
So we are feeling good about the second half.
The comp to last year it is a little bit complicated because prices did come down in the second half of last year.
In fact in our pricing prices went up in the second quarter of last year because we removed winter dating from our numbers and there were big discounts in the first quarter.
So we kind of gave the impression in our 10-Q and in our financial reporting that prices has increased in the second quarter in our books because they but then we went through some price adjustment in the second half a kind of reversed a lot of that pricing back out.
So that's why I think the quarter-on-quarter comparisons could give you the impression that prices drop in the second quarter because there is a bigger gap to the second quarter of last year.
But in fact the sequential comparison which show the prices are up from the first quarter to second quarter which I think is really constructive dynamic.
Particularly in a deflationary environment you touched on deflation; we had set about $50 million in deflation.
We said we thought the bulk of that would be in the second half.
At the time we made that in that direction or gave guidance we had expected candidly volume in the second quarter to be a little bit weaker than what we actually shipped.
So we had a lot of good shipments at the end of the quarter where we had low asphalt cost in the shingle that we shipped and our internal planning some of the shingles we had anticipated would be shipped in the third quarter.
So that effectively brought some of the deflation we expected to see in the third quarter into the second based on the timing of shipments.
We think that's good news we think the shipments in the second quarter was stronger because market demand was stronger so our senses the roofing market out there is good the fact that overall the industry ship 5% less in the first half of this year than we shipped last year would certainly suggest it is not an inventory build situation on the channel but that is actually a replenishment type demand which is very constructive for us as a manufacturer so we feel good about the way the dynamics of the roofing played out.
It had not caused us to believe we will see more deflation this year even of this $80 million kind of annualized you might get to a bigger number we think in fact based on the way the volumes laid out that $50 million or may be little more than $50 million still good guidance on deflation.
That's perfect Mike and very comprehensive answer as always.
A second question on the back half expectations for Composites.
Appreciate the color as to why you think the EBIT will be flattish year-over- year.
As you kind list of those components I was hoping to get a sense from you -- obviously every year there's different elements of maintenance facility maintenance et cetera and so this might be difficult.
But as you've identified some of the supply lines and the non-woven that might be impacting that back half profitability what amount of that would you consider if at all kind of nonrecurring or more limited in nature? And to contrast that importantly versus what you consider your annual ongoing type of maintenance that you have to perform for the overall Composites footprint? So Mike this is Michael.
That's a good question.
And I think I can give you some good help from a direction point of view.
I don't I will give you any specifics from a 2016 perspective but I think you are on an interesting point.
So if you back up the last year you recall that rebuilds in general were quite elevated and their rebuild expense for the year if I remember correctly was up about $30 million year-on-year from 2013 to 2014.
And as we moved into 2015 we said that rebuild expense in addition to the start up cost that we have associated with our new non-woven facility is going to be broadly the same.
So as you move into 2016 you will clearly have some rebuild.
But you would expect that we'd have a bit of a tailwind in 2016 from less rebuild expense.
And our next question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Thanks very much guys.
Good strong results and congratulations on that.
So my first question just to touch up on Roofing here.
With respect to the asphalt deflation you talked about the $18 million that you could get to from your 10-Q.
But some of that deflation I would expect to is probably related to asphalt sales the liquid asphalt sales not the shingles.
And so I'm wondering if we look at the margin benefit from lower asphalt prices would we -- what should we be using or thinking was your margin benefit? I wouldn't think it would be all the $18 million because the stuff -- the asphalt is done on a pass through I would think right? So if you could help me think through what the margin benefit was from the lower asphalt? Stephen thanks for your question I appreciate because it actually gives me a chance to clarify make sure that everyone understands the convention we used when we talk about pricing.
You are in fact right that the asphalt business -- we have a business where we process asphalt and sell it kind of an OEM basis to other shingle manufacture then also into a distribution for things like commercial roofing applications.
That business we characterize in the past as being kind of pass through basis we have a processing fee in some cases and other cases we just have price gap of input materials.
For purpose of our inflation or deflation reporting when we talk about shingles we exclude the pass through economics of our asphalt business.
So this $18 million deflation number that we are talking about today is in fact the deflation we achieved on the shingles that we sold.
One of the things we also try to clarify in today's call is in the reportable segment we have the impact of this asphalt pass through sales we also have some accessory sales in that segment as well as shingle sales.
And because we are in a deflationary environment our asphalt business while still a good business shrank in the quarter because we sold and pass through at lower prices.
So overall top line and the volume growth you would calculate out of our 10-Q significantly underestimate the actual growth in shipments of shingles hopefully Michael clarify that effectively in his comments but the overall shingle market was up a little over 40 in the quarter down 5 for the half we were up little bit less than 40 for the quarter up 5 for the half and our shingle business at $18 million of asphalt cost deflation in the second quarter with a little bit of cost inflation actually in the first.
So our year-to-date cost deflation is slightly less than $18 million but it was $18 million for the second quarter.
Got it just writing that down.
Okay all right yes that's an important clarification.
So I guess the follow-up question would be how much of the $45 million decline in sales was shingles versus other products? This is all within the Roofing business as well.
The $45 million decline in sales give me that number because we reported today of 5 or 3 versus prior year revenue for 37.
I can jump on yes.
Can you hear me? Okay great.
So you reported a $45 million impact from price.
Yes and so I was wondering how much of that was related to shingles versus other products? So we would use the same convention there that we used on asphalt cost deflation.
So the $45 million price decline that we reported in the second quarter specific to shingles and then $18 million cost deflation that we reported in the quarter specific to shingles.
And I want to be little transparent on this.
This -- our financial reporting in our 10-Q this was a little bit more complex this quarter because it is little bit of an oddity that we see a quarter with such significant increase in shingle volumes while we are seeing asphalt cost deflation and it made some of the numbers that we put into the Q less cleared and we would like them to be while we offer some additional information here on the call.
And now our next question is from Kathryn Thompson of Thompson Research Group.
Hi thanks for taking my questions today.
First is on Composites.
I'm looking -- how much of your margin growth in Q2 was driven by outsize results in Europe? And specifically the checks that we have done are the market is structurally better this year because Chinese composite imports are effectively noncompetitive not only because of the anti-dumping anti-subsidy tariff but also because of FX headwinds.
So if you look at your composite results as a whole and looking at more specifically at the margin results how much was it Europe versus other geographies? Yes Kathryn it is Michael.
I will take that question.
I think what I said may be at a high level is that we are really pleased with the execution of the Composites business in the quarter but really over the last two years.
And as we look at the progress that we've made this year in the quarter specifically we made progress I think broadly across all region.
You are right to call out Europe; we had made significant progress in Europe this year.
Back over the last year for years we have taken significant amount of restructuring effort in Europe.
We had a fair amount or rebuild activity in Europe last year as well.
We are seeing the fruits of all that work that we got done over the last couple of years.
And then you are right currency has been our friend and some of the anti-dumping policies that are good in place have been helpful from a pricing perspective as well.
And then volumes have been relatively pretty good in Europe as well.
So we are really pleased with the progress that we've seen in Europe on a multiyear basis but in particular the first six months of this year.
Thanks and my follow-up question is on Insulation.
You pointed out that Insulation volumes some were impacted by the lag between permits and starts.
To what extent do you think volumes were at all impacted by very high precipitation seen in certain geographies such as Texas Oklahoma and Colorado this year? Well obviously we all have views on that but it is very hard for us to get good hard data or to track that.
The kind of very high level probably the metric we look at is starts versus completions.
And we have seen probably over the course of last three quarter four quarters that there has been an increasing disparity between starts and completions would suggest to us that potentially there is more lag between when a house is started and when that house is completed.
And therefore there maybe more lag between the start up the house and the 90 days which we estimated about the time insulation goes into the home.
Now some of that could be weather related or some of the dynamics you are discussing.
I think if you also look at labor growth in new construction labor growth has been slower than growth in new construction so we could be also seeing some of the lag extending out to the labor bottleneck.
So we think there are a number of factors that are likely contributing to why we are maybe seeing a little bit slower growth in insulation demand than the lag housing start would suggest.
I would tell you we think it is with also within rounding error so while we've been on the low side of housing starts in our macro for the last couple of quarters we also get some industry data around market share and things and we are pretty confident that we are tracking the market in terms of shipments and really there are just a market phenomenon where they are getting to be some pent up demand in the market that we will eventually see.
We are hopeful and we would expect to see fair amount of that start down winds here in the second half and I think in Michael's comments he did say that we saw reasonably good volume in our -- the way June kind of order book and that so far early in the quarter the third quarter translation looks pretty good.
So we are I think expressing some optimism here on the call that we think the second half should be a point where we return the corner base in the last four months to starts.
And the next question is from Garik Shmois of Longbow Research.
Thank you and congratulations on the quarter.
Just a follow-up question first off on Insulation.
Just wanted some clarification on your 10% revenue guidance for the second half of the year.
Is that for the entire Insulation division or is that just a comment specific to the US residential component? No.
That's for the entire reportable segments.
So obviously if you look at second quarter housing starts I think second quarter housing starts were up about 14% versus the second quarter of last year somewhere in the mid-teens.
So on a lag basis we would expect in the US residential side that we would see both demand to growth that would be better than the 10% and also we are getting positive price there.
So we are excited to see volume and price in the US residential segment but if you look across our entire insulation business that’s still represents less than half of the overall business and some of the other parts of the business kind of grow with industrial production or grow with GDP or grow with the geographies that we are in.
So it is a mix issues but as we mix it through we feel the growth there should be -- I think quite a bit stronger than that 10% for using 10% overall growth in the segment.
Okay thank you.
And then a follow-up question on Roofing.
You've talked about your outlook for the second half of the year for the full year for that matter for demand.
Just given the context in the second half of last year which you had tried to regain your share position you did so successfully and particularly in the third quarter.
How should we think about your volume growth in Roofing on a year-over-year basis in the third and fourth quarters? Should it track relatively similar to the mid single-digit outlook that you have for the industry? Or is there going to be a little bit of variance just given how your volumes progressed a year ago? Yes.
I think Michael gave some commentary on this let me build on a couple of things that Michael said.
Our current estimate based on a flat market for the full year which is still -- I think the estimate we are building our outlook of -- is that the industry has probably shipped about 55% of full year demand in the first half and then we would ship about 45% in the second half.
That's really just math and we know first half shipment and if you assume its flat for the year that would mean we have about 45% to go on a year-to-go basis.
In fact if that the environment we are in that produced 5% lower shipments in the first half than what we saw last year.
And should therefore improve about 5% higher shipments in the second half than we saw last year.
So would produce some volume growth to the manufacturers in the second half even in a flat market.
Last year in the first half we were not happy with our market share position primarily waiting first quarter and then the early part of the second quarter I think we expressed last year on our fourth quarter call I guess earlier this year that we felt we had done what we needed to do there at the second half of last year our market position was consistent where we have been historically.
So we would expect our market share in the second half to be consistent with where we have been historically which would also suggest its consistent where we were last year which why give a guidance that we would expect our volumes to roughly track the market in the second half.
Next wave of question from Mike Wood of Macquarie Securities Group.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
I understand your logic on the asphalt deflation timing I get a lot of the questions on this topic would like to clarify.
I get a lot of confusion from investors basically calculate that what your $50 million guidance assumes is maybe a 10% or 15% asphalt price decline.
And there's some industry data out there and PPI data suggesting that decline is 30%.
So could you just clarify on that topic? Is it the industry data with the asphalt decline is overstating the impact? Or is it somehow getting mitigated in your $50 million guidance? Yes.
This is Mike.
Let me take that and then maybe Michael add anything he would want to build on that I opened it up over to him.
Our $50 million guidance is obviously build up of our cost of goods the timing of shipments and the timing of asphalt purchases and we said earlier in the year that there is some lag between the time the crude oil hits the refinery between the refinery moving it through asphalt the asphalt coming into our system getting into a shingle being sold.
And we said it is about three months from the time I think oil to get through the asphalt prices and about three months for asphalt prices to get through our cost to good.
Which is why we didn't really seen much deflation until we got into the second quarter of this year because we didn't really see the big break in oil prices until late third and then more pronounced into the fourth quarter of last year.
So that supply chain dynamic hasn't really changed.
We cautioned I think on the last call that typically in April May you often see a flattening of the deflation curve because the paving market starts to pick up and so the refiners have alternative uses of the asphalt that they produce and as a result of that we have not seen asphalt come down to the level of pricing that would be suggested by where crude oil move to.
So historically a drop in crude a certain percentage would imply as the same percentage drop or similar percentage drop in asphalt.
We have not seen that through this cycle.
We got a portion of the way there and then April and May came caving season started to open up asphalt prices kind of firmed up and we didn't move all the way down.
So part of I think the variance between where we would put asphalt cost deflation and maybe some of the external estimates would be that we don't see asphalt coming all the way down to the prices that would be suggested by crude oil.
Maybe until later in the year potentially if at all.
The second thing is I think some of the analysts support I read maybe over estimate the amount of cost to goods that asphalt represents in our shingle business.
If you look at our overall Roofing segment because we have the asphalt processing business we process and sell a lot more asphalt than actually necessarily goes into our shingles.
And so when we look at what goes through our shingles and what goes through our cost to goods the movement in asphalt price is based on published number that we would track and $50 million guidance pretty much tie-out.
So we continue to think it is good guidance and it is just hard place for us to give a lot more information than that because we have to basically a way our entire cost to goods which is -- and we are prepared to do competitively.
Very helpful.
Yes.
The only other thing I would add that your 30% probably a bit high from the deflation point of view where we sit today.
Understood.
Just as a follow up on Composites many other industrial companies have been reporting a pretty broad slow down in China including destocking.
Just curious what your view is and what's been happening in the China Composites market and if there would be any risk that there would be dumping of capacity from China into any other markets? Thank you.
Yes thanks Mike it is Michael again.
Yes I mean our Composites business in China is doing relatively well this year.
I say volumes and profitability are up year-on-year.
We read the newspaper just like you do so we are cautious and we are watching.
But I would characterize that so far this year so far so good.
Yes.
Maybe I'll add a point on top of Michael's -- I think one of the things we've been reporting really over the last four or five years is we came out of the very difficult financial performance for Composites in kind of 2011.
Is that we've seen a real slowdown in any capacity expansion or capital investment in the overall industry.
So growth in China is important to us and it is a very good thing for our industry.
And slowdown I don't think is terribly worrisome provided we still see growth because we believe the overall industry is operating in the 90% level.
So there is not a lot of capacity in China that would come out of China looking for new demand unless we actually saw decline in the Chinese market and at least on the Composites applications where we have the more significant positions we are seeing fairly stable and growing demand.
So we think China is stable our senses is definitely slowing down but we were able to get an industry structure over the course of the last four five years that I think can deal with a bit of slowdown in China without changing our outlook for the business.
And the next question will come from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning this is actually Alex Wong sitting in for George.
Congrats on the quarter.
First question just on Roofing.
I know you touched on the sequential pricing improvement.
But can you just talk about what you are seeing in the kind of currently in the market place regarding maybe yield relative to pass attempts that Owens Corning is undertaking and kind of your pricing outlook for the balance of the year especially given the latest round of announcements? I mean it is generally our practice that we don't talk to specific price increases or talk to the yield on specific price increases.
But I think it is suffice to say that because there was very limited discounting in the first quarter than most of the sequential price increase that we would be reporting in the second quarter if not by product of the elimination of discount but it is actually a by product of some realization of the price increases that were announced in the quarter which we think is a very kind of optimistic note for the industry.
I think we talked that most of the distributors and people who buy and resell shingles rising price environment is the most attractive environment if you are in the business of buying and reselling shingles.
No one wants to see their inventories devalued and increase in prices gives our customers the opportunity to also widen out their margins.
So we are in an environment today where the sequential pricing that we saw in the second quarter really was a by product of our ability to pass higher prices to the market place.
And I think our customers' ability to pass through improves their profitability as well.
Thanks for that.
And then just follow up regarding guidance just the $40 million swing factor between the low end and high end can you just provide some color around what conditions you need to see to kind of drive both through the low and high end and what you characterize as your biggest concerns entering the second half of the year? Yes.
It is a very good question.
I mean obviously we started the year in our Roofing business $60 million behind last year on the first quarter of 2014 we did $80 million of EBIT this year and first quarter we only did $20 million.
I think when you start in $60 million hole your first objective is get out of the hole.
We made $30 million as a progress here in the second quarter.
So on year-to-date basis our Roofing business is still $30 million behind last year.
I think if you look at our guidance one of the things that we need to be able to achieve in order to get to the low end of the ranges we would need to see roofing come back to levels of performance that at least were similar to last year.
So I think step by step our goal would be to see roofing make more progress and catching up on last year through the third quarter.
Fourth quarter volumes are always a big question mark in roofing so I think a lot of the variability that we would describe the roofing would be how much volume do we see in the fourth quarter and how that set us up for next year.
Obviously our preference is going to be to see that this year we saw shingle start customers that they resale.
We think the big inventory effects that we've seen over the last couple of years either in yearend effects or first quarter discounting have made the market difficult for manufactures like Owens Corning to make money like it also made difficult for our customers to make money.
So our expectations is we -- kind of readable demand through the third fourth quarter based on what our customer sell out the door and depending on the timing of that and the margin rates associated with that I think we could be somewhere between the low end and high end of the range.
And our next question is from John Baugh of Stifel.
Thank you and congrats on nice quarter.
Two things quickly.
One on asphalt if we just assume the oil doesn't change or asphalt cost doesn't change appreciably is there a benefit that goes out into 2016? Could you quantify it? How long doe it go out? My second question on Composites I was curious what your year-to-date volumes were in that business.
And how that maybe tracking relative to the global industrial growth number you talk about or whether you are gaining share losing share et cetera.
Thank you.
Okay.
Related to asphalt cost deflation effectively with our report today where we say we achieved $18 million of asphalt cost deflation in the second quarter I think where as we had previously characterize the profile of deflation this year as we need to get some piece of it into the second quarter and then the bulk of it will come in the second half.
I would say that today based on the results we are reporting today; it really is much more that we are seeing almost a full portion of deflation in all three of the quarters.
Second third and fourth.
So as you go to next year I think we would have a positive comp at asphalt cost stayed where they are today in our first quarter or probably by the second quarter we wouldn't be comping positively so there is some amount of additional deflation we would expect to see with lower cost at the end of this year than what we had at the end of 2014 but I think by the time you got to the second quarter of next we would be comping about flat on cost.
There is a possible additional improvement in our cost position.
If at the end of this summer and paving season ends we would see asphalt prices again begin to come down closer to where they would be historically versus crude oil.
And if we were to see that between now and yearend then that would potentially give us some additional deflation next year but that's not something we are counting on refinery kind of complex is changed dramatically over the last couple of year so we are trying to get a sense of where the crude oil prices and asphalt and I think to this point we've got our arms around it pretty good with the $50 million of guidance we have given.
I'll let Michael talk about Composites volumes.
Yes thanks Mike.
Yes quickly on Composites volumes.
I think as you would have taken away from our prepared remarks and some of the questions that I answered earlier I think broadly across pretty much all regions in which we operate across the globe we've seen positive volume growth year-on-year.
Looking at it on the year-to-date basis if you look at our Q I think you can tease out that roughly that equates about 4% growth year-on-year.
We highlight at the beginning of the year we are expecting to see a little bit of weakness in particular within the oil and gas sector which has materialized.
But overall volume growth is tracking nicely about 4% on the year-to-date basis.
And our next question is from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Thank you.
I had two quick questions on Roofing.
First you had talked about the sequential improvement in shingle prices into the second if price stay where they are at heading into the third quarter would you on year-over-year basis are up in pricing? And there is a lot of calculus involved I just can't figure out on my own.
And then question number two is on manufacturing volumes given your view of the market.
What was your capacity utilization rates in Roofing that you are planning right now be versus prior year in the second half? Okay.
Let me come back to your first question Keith.
Your first question was third quarter pricing relevant to second quarter or third quarter relative to the third quarter last year.
Third quarter relative to prior year given where you are as you end the second.
Yes.
I mean relative to prior year we would continue to be well below last year.
So the entire pricing curve this year is really the shape of it doesn't look a lot similar to last year but its well below it.
And that is really when we came out of last year we had the big discounting in the first quarter.
We saw some price increases as discounting came out in the second quarter.
We then adjusted our pricing in the third quarter so third and fourth quarter prices were below the overall level of pricing for 2014 as a result when we came into 2015 we are just starting off the lower base.
And obviously the number we watch are margin rates and we having been able to adjust to that price level and deliver 18% margins in the quarter which is really constructed number for us.
So production was very very good with some deflation and some sequential pricing at today's price levels we can make very good money on the roofing business.
And so the production volume to the second half will those be above the prior year given that the industry it appears on a path for a decent second half of the year.
Above the prior year first of all I mean in roofing the timing of our production is not terribly important because our fixed cost are relatively low and absorption is not super important particularly in any given year.
We've been pretty careful about inventories this year particularly because it is a deflationary environment so we want to make sure we don't put high cost asphalt into our inventories.
So my sense would be that we will producing the second half about what we would ship and since we are expecting shipments in the second half to be slightly above last year I would expect production to kind of at about the same level what we saw last year.
Okay.
And to go back to the first question on the -- there is various price increase announcement that has been out in the industry for a couple of different periods.
Do you have a view at this point on the potential success of those for you or for the industry as a whole in the third quarter? I think ballpark I don't think I remember whose question I answer on that but we have been very pleased that we saw some positive sequential price in the second quarter.
Obviously our hope for the year would be that we continue to see the kind of constructive and progressive pricing for the year that's very good for us.
It tends to be good for our customers.
But I wouldn't speak specifically to any of the announced price increase or view on them.
All right.
And the next question comes from Stephen East of Evercore.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Mike if I could just follow up on the Composites talking about China.
What percentage of your business is going into China and you talked about it is more value add what -- is it just industrial production that you keep your eye on or what's probably the biggest macro metric that you look at for China? Yes.
So in our investor disclosure you will see that China represents about 26% I believe that the overall global market and percentage of OC revenue is roughly 10%.
I think that's in our standard divesture pack that should be out in our website.
And again global industrial production is the primary measure that we look at when thinking about the Composites business.
Clearly as you go around the globe there are various pieces of the end market which are more relevant.
Obviously thinking about China their infrastructure is relevant and automotive though is actually a quite nice growing segment for us as well.
So again so that 26% or core of the overall market by 10% of our revenue and we've seen good progress this year on a year-to-date basis.
Okay.
And then on Insulation you got some gives and takes in retail.
I was interested in where that shaking out right now? Are you getting your -- you think you are growing that segment getting the pricing and then I know it is early for 2016 but just looking at your cash allocation where you are going on CapEx spend et cetera do you have any big projects that are looming we need to be aware of? Yes.
So on Insulation when we look at the overall market demand and I spoke to this earlier that we generally think we are tracking the market.
If you break it down into some of the segments that exist inside our insulation business you got some alternative channels but generally the product we sell or retail the product we sell to the new construction contracted the product we sell into distribution is a very similar product so we get market share we measure market share data at that level our sense would be that because of some of the moves at retail maybe a bit more of our volume in the quarter did go through the retail channel but our overall volume in the corner tracking market so we think we are doing very well in retail.
And obviously with our brand our trademark colors and other things we bring a pretty unique value proposition to a retailer so that is a place where we should shine and we should do very well.
With respect to capital allocation I mean the non-woven facility we are building down in North Carolina was obviously big capital spent.
We would expect that generally the substantial portion of the spent should be behind us.
This year we are expecting to commission that plan late this year.
So it is really the Joplin Missouri mineral fiber facility that we spoke off earlier in today's call that we would the biggest capital call on next year.
We've been pretty heavy rebuild schedule in Composites including two of our very important melters in the US; two very well cost strategic melters which are the two melters we are rebuilding in the second half of this year.
We do have an outlook over the next two to three years that the level of rebuild expenditure that we are going to have in deposits will start to come down a bit with the rebuilds we've done in Europe with the rebuilds we've done in North America now so generally in terms of our cash flow outlook the more profitable we are the more valuable our tax position is because our cash tax rate is well below our GAAP tax rate and then obviously as we get through this surge of CapEx that we had in Composites as well as some of these big expansions that we have between non-woven and mineral fiber we are getting into a period we believe as we get into 2016 and beyond we are going to have lot of flexibility with free cash flow to pursue growth to pursue shareholder purchases Michael talked about to support our dividend to support balance sheet with our investment grade credit rating.
So hopefully this is the environment we have been looking to get into with three great businesses operating at high margin levels with great cash flow.
And I think we are beginning to demonstrate that here in the second quarter.
Excellent.
Well thank you everyone for joining us to today's call.
And with that I'll turn it back to Mike for some closing remarks.
Well thank you Thierry.
Obviously I hope you took away from Michael and my comments that we are very pleased with the progress in the second quarter particularly I think the quarter was a result of positive execution in all three of our businesses.
I don't know how many times in my career I am going to have the opportunity to report a quarter where the corporation EBIT is up 60% and Composites is up 80% and Roofing and Insulation are both up 40%.
Those are some pretty heady numbers.
I don't know that we can sustain that through all the quarters of my career.
But it was a fun to have one where we have all three of the businesses really showing that kind of growth and that kind of improvement at the same time.
Obviously that is consistent with the overall strategy we laid out for the company that we have been talking now for two to three years with our investors of getting all three of our businesses and our portfolio operating at very high levels of performance at the same time.
I think you are seeing the power of that capability inside Owens Corning and the numbers coming through the second quarter.
I'd expect that we would be able to demonstrate through the second half of the year continue progress and I think most importantly that progress that we are demonstrating here in the second quarter and through the second half should continue on into 2016 and 2017 provided we see the kind of macro environment and economic fundamentals that underpin our very very good businesses.
So we are very proud of the quarter.
We appreciate the support of all the people on this call and we look forward to talking to you on the third quarter call.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Owens Corning Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thierry Denis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Allison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us for today’s conference call and review of our business results for the third quarter 2015.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning’s Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-Q that detailed our financial results for the third quarter.
For the purposes of our discussion today we’ve prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the third quarter of 2015 and we will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the earnings press release from 10-Q and a presentation slides at our website owenscorning.com.
Refer to the Investor’s link on the bottom right-side of our homepage.
A transcript and recording of this call and the supporting slides will be available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today’s remarks will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
These statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
We undertake no obligation to update these statements beyond what is required under applicable securities laws.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent risks and uncertainties affecting such forward-looking statements.
Second this presentation and today’s prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release on owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period-to-period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
In the third quarter we have utilized an effective tax rate of 33% on adjusted earnings the midpoint of the 2015 range published this morning.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who would be followed by CFO Michael McMurray.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our third quarter results.
As noted in the press release we had a very strong quarter representing a record EBIT performance for the company.
All three businesses made substantial contributions to this performance.
The Composites business continued to momentum we have seen throughoutthe year driven by stronger volumes improved pricing and good manufacturing performance.
Our Roofing business saw volume growth in the quarter with improved margins benefiting from the continued asphalt deflation we have discussed throughout the year.
The Insulation business grew at double-digit rates reflecting the improved housing activity in the second half of the year.
This marks the 17th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement for our Insulation business.
All three businesses performed at double-digit margin levels in the quarter as a result of positive macro trends and solid commercial and operational execution.
The company delivered consolidated revenue in the quarter of $1.46 billion a 6% increase from $1.38 billion for the same period a year ago.
We earned $198 million in adjusted EBIT for the quarter up from $132 million last year.
Adjusted earnings were $113 million up from $73 million one year ago.
We are also pleased to note that we have delivered year-to-date cash flow from operating activities of $384 million up from $62 million one year ago.
At the outset of the year we discussed a number of expectations for sustained or improved performance across our businesses in 2015.
Let me review them now beginning with safety.
As is the case each year we said that we will continue to make progress towards our goal of creating an injury free workplace.
We continue to perform at a high level of safety.
Through the third quarter the number of recordable injuries is tracking at approximately an 8% year-on-year improvement.
We are on track to have the best safety performance in the company's history.
In Insulation we said the business should continue to benefit from growth in US residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
Insulation delivered its 17th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement.
Revenue grew at a double-digit rate in the quarter and we continued to see price improvement.
As the housing market recovery progresses we will see continued performance improvement in this business.
We also remain confident in the commercial segment of the Insulation business and are underway in the construction of our new mineral wool facility in Joplin Missouri.
In Composites we updated our outlook on our second quarter call and said that we expected a $50 million EBIT improvement over 2014 including the negative impact of the stronger US dollar.
Composites delivered double-digit margins for the same growth improved pricing and good manufacturing performance.
The Composites business performance in 2015 reflects the effective execution of our previously announced strategy of cost leadership price realization product leadership and capital efficiency.
In Roofing we said the outlook would be largely determined by competitive pricing dynamics the timing and value of asphalt cost deflation and overall market demand.
For the quarter Roofing delivered $45 million of EBIT improvement on both volume growth and asphalt deflation restoring year-to-date margins to mid-teens.
Pricing in the marketplace was stable on a sequential basis although still below last year's level.
Asphalt deflation contributed $27 million of benefit in the quarter.
We are seeing this business play out as we had hoped and are pleased about the developments that have helped us [repair] margins this year.
2015 is shaping up as a better year for our Roofing business.
Before I move to our outlook we had one other achievement in the quarter that I would like to note.
For the sixth consecutive year Owens Corning earned placements in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in recognition of our sustainability initiatives.
The company was also named the industry leader for the building products group for the third consecutive year.
We are proud of our accomplishments in the area of sustainability and the recognition we receive as a global leader.
Next week we will announce more ambitious 2020 sustainability goals for reduction in greenhouse gas and toxic air emissions along with new sourcing partnerships that will further demonstrate our commitment to leadership in reducing our carbon intensity.
Now I will review our outlook for the remainder of 2015.
The company expects to continue to benefit from sustained improvements in the US housing market along with moderate global growth.
In Composites we now expect a full-year improvement of $80 million based on current volume and pricing strength.
This improvement includes the impact of $25 million in currency headwinds.
In Roofing we continue to expect that the full-year US shingle market will be in line with 2014.
We expect the full-year benefit from asphalt deflation to be around $60 million.
Overall this business is positioned to meet or exceed last year’s EBIT performance.
As I noted earlier our insulation business should continue to benefit from growth in US residential new construction market along with improved pricing and operating leverage.
We expect revenue growth of about 10% in the second half with full-year operating leverage of approximately 40%.
In July we provided an EBIT range for the full year of between $460 million and $500 million for Owens Corning.
Based on strong year-to-date performance and our outlook for the remainder of the year we now expect adjusted EBIT to be at or above the high end of that guidance and feel confident we should deliver Owens Corning’s best EBIT performance in nearly a decade.
With our current guidance we are expecting more than 20% growth in the company’s full year EBIT performance.
On a year-to-date basis all of our businesses are ahead of last year and we expect that our overall corporate performance will be driven by full year margin improvement in all three businesses.
Our current performance and the positive momentum in our markets put us on track for double-digit margin performance in all three businesses in 2016.
On November 18th we will host an investor day in which management will review our businesses in more detail.
At that time we look forward to sharing how we will continue to build on our current momentum.
With that I'll now turn it over to Michael who will review further details of our performance in the quarter.
I'll then return to recap and open the call up for questions.
Michael? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier we had a very strong quarter and were very pleased with our results.
All three businesses delivered double-digit EBIT margins in the quarter resulting in a 14% adjusted operating margin for the company.
As I have said on previous calls Owens Corning is a better company when all three businesses are making meaningful contributions to our financial results.
Now let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the third quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the table of today's new release and the Form 10-Q.
Today we reported third quarter 2015 consolidated net sales of $1.46 billion up 6% as compared to sales reported for the same period in 2014.
Net sales in our Insulation business increased 11% primarily on increased sales volumes.
In our Composites business higher sales volumes favorable product mix and higher selling prices were offset by roughly $50 million of foreign currency translation.
In our Roofing business net sales were up 6% primarily on higher sales volumes.
Adjusted EBIT for the third quarter of 2015 was $198 million up $66 million compared to the same period one year ago.
This represents record EBIT performance for the company.
Adjusted earnings for the third quarter of 2015 were $113 million or $0.96 per diluted share compared to $73 million or $0.62 per diluted share in 2014.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $73 million down $2 million as compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $89 million.
Cash from operations improved by $125 million for the quarter and $322 million for the year-to-date compared to the same period one year ago.
For the year we expect to see strong free cash flow as a result of improved earnings better working capital performance and our advantage tax position.
Over the past several years we have heard from investors about the desire for Owens Corning to deliver better free cash flow performance.
I'm pleased to report that we would make significant progress in 2015.
The investments we have made in Composites to achieve a low-cost networks are now paying dividends.
Also we have demonstrated this year that when all three businesses make substantial contributions to our financial results significant free cash flow is achievable.
Given our progress year-to-date we expect free cash flow conversion of adjusted net income to be about 100% in 2015.
Now in Slide 6 let me reconcile 2015 third quarter adjusted EBIT of $198 million to our reported EBIT of $196 million.
We have adjusted $2 million primarily related to the prior restructuring action we took in Japan.
No please turn to Slide 7 where we provide a high-level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing the third quarter of 2015 to the third quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBIT increased by $66 million or about 50% over the same period last year.
Each business showed significant improvement year-over-year with a 91% increase in our Composites business a 78% increase in our Roofing business and a 35% increase in our Insulation business.
General and corporate expenses were about $24 million for the quarter in line with the previous two quarters but higher than the same period in the prior year primarily due to an unusually low comparison in 2014.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 8 where we provide a more detailed review of our business results beginning with our Insulation business.
Sales in Insulation of $502 million were up 11% from the same period a year ago.
The business delivered EBIT of $58 million in the third quarter compared to $43 million in the same period one year ago primarily on improved volume.
This was our 17th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement in our Insulation business.
Revenue grew at a double-digit rate in the quarter consistent with our expectations for improved housing activity in the second half of the year.
We are pleased with the progress that we have made to our Insulation business.
While we have made some progress in price this year we expected a better price environment at the outset of the year.
For the full year 2015 we now expect operating leverage performance to be consistent with our year-to-date performance of approximately 40% which has been affected by price realization below expectations.
We continue to remain confident in our guidance of 50% average operating leverage through the recovery.
The Insulation business should continue to benefit from growth in US residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
We expect Revenue growth of about 10% in the second half of 2015.
Now I will ask you to turn your attention to Slide 9 for a review of our Composites business.
Sales in our Composites business for the third quarter were $500 million up approximately 2% from the same period one year ago.
Revenue grew on higher volumes of 6% favorable product mix and improved selling prices despite currency headwinds of almost $50 million.
On a constant currency basis revenues would have grown about 12%.
EBIT for the quarter was $61 million almost double compared to $32 million in the same period last year.
Composites continued to deliver double-digit EBIT margins and improved EBIT on stronger volume improved pricing stronger manufacturing performance and favorable product mix.
Selling prices continued their sequential improvement for the ninth consecutive quarter.
Commercial and operational execution exceeded expectations in the quarter.
We are pleased with the progress that we have demonstrated in the Composites business over the previous two years including improvements in operating margins and return on capital.
The actions we have taken to achieve a low-cost manufacturing network in the tightening capacity environment positioned this business to continue with the momentum we have established.
For the fourth quarter we expect our normal sequential decline in volumes of a little more than 5% and lower production leverage primarily related to seasonal [plant curtailments] that support the US asphalt shingle market.
In addition we expect higher sequential startup costs related to our new non-woven facility in Gastonia North Carolina.
These costs will continue into 2015.
As a result we would expect fourth quarter EBIT to come in below last year’s fourth quarter’s EBIT.
For the full year we continue to expect moderate global industrial production growth.
Based on our strong volumes continued good manufacturing performance cost management and pricing strength we now expect a full year EBIT improvement of about $80 million.
Our outlook is due to the impact of foreign currency translation which will negatively impact revenue like close to 200 million and EBIT by about 25 million for the full year.
Slide 10 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing sales for the quarter were 502 million a 6% increase compared with the same period a year ago primarily in higher sales volume.
EBIT in the quarter was a 103 million up 45 million compared to same period of 2014 on stronger volume and improved margins.
Roofing delivered 21% EBIT margins for the quarter.
Year-to-date margins are back to mid-teens on volume growth in Asphalt deflation.
Pricing was stable sequentially through the third quarter but remains below last year's level.
Our U.S.
Asphalt shingle volumes grew double-digit and we believe our third quarter volume performance was broadly in line with the market.
Asphalt deflation contributed 27 million of benefit in the quarter and we now expect full year Asphalt deflation of around 60 million.
We continue to expect a flat market for U.S.
shingle shipment in 2015.
We believe industry shipments for the first three quarters were broadly flat with last year.
And therefore we would expect fourth quarter industry shipments to be flat as well.
We expect fourth quarter margins to be sequentially down by as much as 10 points as compared to the margin seen during the third quarter 2015 on seasonably lower demand.
As a reminder over the three year period from 2012 to 2014 we experience aggressive discounting in inventory built within the channel during the first quarter which resulted in higher shipments.
During this period first quarter shipments averaged about a third of full year demand.
When you review the data you see that higher first quarter shipments typically pulled volumes out of the third quarter.
As a result we tended to have weaker third quarter volumes in those years and a less dramatic drop in volume in the fourth quarter.
This resulted in a less dramatic seasonal decrease in EBIT margins from the third to fourth quarter.
Given the lack of discounting the in light what Canada built in the first quarter of 2015 we expect a more traditional demand pattern with strong recorded third quarter volume in an expectation their volumes to be down as much as 40% sequentially in the fourth quarter.
This would drive a decrease in EBIT margins from the third to fourth quarter more consistent with the years prior to 2012.
One final reminder.
The U.S.
and Canada commercial industrial end market represents approximately 16% of the topline and is primarily related to third party Asphalt sales.
Given deflation in oil and Asphalt our Asphalt sales prices are expected to be down about 30% year-over-year driving a corresponding impact on revenue we derive from this end market.
We are pleased with the performance in our Roofing business and so far the year has played out generally as we had hoped.
We saw a limited discounting and less inventory built early in the year.
We experienced improved volumes and stable pricing in the second and third quarters with Asphalt deflation tracking broadly in-line with expectations.
Based in our performance today we expect the business to meet or exceed last year's EBIT performance.
Now let me turn your attention to slide 11 which provides an overview of significant financial matters and our outlook for 2015.
The company's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.17 per share payable on November 03 2015 to shareholders of record as of October 19 2015.
In the third quarter under a previously announced here repurchased program we repurchased about 1.1 million shares of the company stock or $47 million at an average price of $44.72.
For the year-to-date we have repurchased about 2.1 million shares of the company stock for an $89 million at an average price of $42.13.
As of September 30 5.6 million shares remained available for repurchase under the company's current authorization.
As we balanced our priorities for the future deployment of free cash flow both dividends and stock repurchases will be important mechanisms to return capital to shareholders.
Our current market outlook is for continued growth in U.S.
housing starts and moderate global industrial production growth.
Expectations for 2015 U.S housing starts are at 1.1 million units.
Now please turn to slide 12 where I provide financial guidance for the year.
We previously expected full-year adjusted EBIT in a range between $460 million and $500 million.
We now expect to be at or above the high end of this range.
We expect full year corporate expenses to be around a $110 million.
Capital expenditures to total approximately $380 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense to be about $310 million.
And interest expense to be about a $110 million.
Our $2.2 billion U.S.
tax N.O.L will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
As a result of our tax N.O.L another tax planning initiative we expect our 2015 cash tax rate to be approximately 10% to 12% of adjusted pre-tax earnings.
Our 2015 effective tax rate on adjusted pre-tax earnings is now expected to be 32% to 34%.
The increase from 30% to 32% is primarily due to better performance in the U.S.
where we have a higher statutory tax rate.
We also some minor prior period adjustments.
Thank you.
And I'll now turn the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I noted at the outset of today's call Owens Corning had a very strong quarter representing an all-time best EBIT performance.
Our Insulation business grew EBIT to the 17<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter.
Our Composites business delivered at 9<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of EBIT growth and our Roofing business improved margins to 21% and is now tracking ahead of 2014 on a year-to-date basis.
Given our performance this year analysis for the remainder of 2015 we are confident we should deliver EBIT at or above the high-end of our previous guidance of $460 million to $500 million.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Thierry who will lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Alison we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much guys and good results in the quarter.
Thank you.
I wanted to first start off with your Insulation business.
You have talked about incremental there 40% for the year longer term.
I think you talked about 50% better it was about 25% in the quarter and we know the pricing was disappointing.
I guess I'm wondering how much of the difference between the current incremental that we are seeing and your forecast in incremental is to solely to an improved outlook for pricing? Thanks Stephen.
As we talked about our operating leverage guidance we said through the recovery which is now in multiple years we expected that we would have about 50% operating leverage.
And in fact based on our comments today where we said we think this year will come in around 40% we are still at about that 50% level cumulatively over the last three or four years through the recovery.
So we're still tracking pretty well; to the overall guidance we gave there on 50% incremental.
You are correct that in the third quarter our incremental were a bit weaker.
I think there is some comparison issues and other things that caused the third quarter to look a little bit worse than the full year.
But fundamentally I would say there is nothing in the quarter that causes me to believe that the underlying momentum around incrementals is different in this quarter than it has been in the other.
I think we are going to average about 40% through the year.
Your second question around pricing I think that that's a key observation for us.
We came into the year thinking that we would maybe do a little bit better than our current guidance at 40%.
I think the gap or the disappointment is primarily on the pricing side.
We would have expected at this point the recovery the prices and insulation should be accelerating from what we saw in '13 and '14 and in fact we are experiencing a bit of a deceleration in price performance.
We think that's specific to 2015.
So we had kind of a context or some fact and circumstances associated with this year that have made the price environment a little bit more challenging.
The nature of the price announcements and the price increases that were put into the market earlier in the year created some expectations of some price protection through the year.
So it's been difficult to raise prices we got later in the years demand has got in a lot stronger.
We also saw weaker demand early in the year.
So the market was quite competitive for volume early in the year which made full realization of the price increase that we announced earlier in the year challenging.
So we didn't have great realization of the price increase at the beginning of the year.
We've had a bit of a challenge trying to realize price here in the second half of the year.
Our hope would be as we go into 2016 that we maybe have a little bit more constructive environment on price.
I mean I think as you know our prices of insulation are still well below where they were a decade ago on a nominal basis and we've had inflation.
It's a high quality product it has a lot of value.
There is no really good reason why insulation shouldn't be valued in the new construction market and we are working very hard to try to get back to value for our product and pricing for our product.
It's consistent with the investment we have in the business and the value of the product we offer.
Great yes thanks.
Yes certainly in insulation some of the pricing announcements remained over the year which mean in the beginning of the year probably accounts for some of that.
I wanted to switch to roofing.
And I know you are going to get a bunch of questions about the volume and the margin.
I wanted to ask you specifically about the pricing.
I think you -- I think Michael talked about Asphalt prices being down roughly 30% year-over-year in that segment.
And we know this is obviously some mingling of your Asphalt prices in your -- together with your shingle prices and the number that you reported to us.
I was wondering if you could give us some help us see through some of that and give us a sense for if pricing stays flat sequentially how much would you expect I'm talking shingles here.
If shingle pricing stays flat sequentially how much do you think year-over-year shingle prices will be up or down in 4Q and if you could help us understand what that shingle specific price performance was year-over-year in 3Q? Yes.
I think we have some pretty good disclosure on this in our 10Q.
So we tried hard to enhance that and make sure that our investors have the ability to kind of track pricing.
I think this year we talked pricing primarily sequentially and we said in the second quarter then in the third quarter that prices were relatively stable on a sequential basis.
I think we've given indications based on our outlook for the fourth quarter.
We did not call prices down for the fourth quarter.
So we do believe that for the second half of the year prices will be largely stable or flat sequent to where they were exiting the first half of the year.
They are in fact tracking below last year.
That was true in the first half of the year.
If you remember last year we had to do some price corrections in the middle part of the year coming through in the second and third quarter.
We are still comping against those number but we are comping pricing today below those numbers.
I think our characterization of pricing being stable would suggest that while we're meeting competitive situations and we're seeing competitive situations in the market every single day we are not seeing widespread discounting which characterize 2014.
So whereas in 2014 we would say there was national market-wide price movements.
I think today it's much more on a regional or local basis.
It so much channel specific even at times new construction versus repair remodel specific.
So we're seeing a very different and I would say positive market environment today around pricing and that it's still very competitive but we are seeing prices relatively stable.
That said our overall price level in the third quarter and expectation for the price level in the fourth quarter is that those price levels will be below last year.
We've also said we expect full-year Asphalt cost deflation to be $60 million that's related to our Shingle business.
So Michael broke out and gave I think a little bit more guidance today on that commercial and industrial end market which is our roof which is our Asphalt business too other roofing manufacturers and into the commercial roofing business.
That's independent of our guidance around deflation.
So the 50 million of deflation is specific to Asphalt shingle business given that we're saying we think the overall market will be flat our volumes would be slightly up because of our share position last year and that we think Asphalt cost deflation would be $60 million.
I think the influence of that in an overall flat EBIT year is that most of that has been given back in price in total relative to 2014.
And our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and nice quarter.
Good morning Mike.
The first question I had was on Composites.
I think definitely better than expected results than we were looking for and I think also perhaps as implied by guidance last quarter where there were a number of items I think that you highlighted.
And I think this is more for the second half overall not for 3Q specifically but you cited rebuild expenses and cost associated with the startup of the U.S.
facility implementation cost with an expanding supply line for the Chinese-based manufacture as well as lower level of higher margin specialty glass sales.
And those were the three items that you kind of talked about.
Clearly it looks like there are some things that are on the positive side that are perhaps giving greater than expected tailwinds but I just wanted to get back to those three drivers that you mentioned last quarter and ask if all of those items are in effect still in your guidance for the year or if some of them are differed or if there is other elements that have kind of played into the picture as you now look at the second half overall? Okay.
Hey thanks Michael its Michael.
Why not I give you a bit of color on the quarter itself and then I can specifically take on the question you had specifically around rebuild cost and startup cost and how we shaped that for the year.
But you are right.
So we delivered very strong results in the quarter 61 million versus 32 million year-on-year.
You heard me in my prepared remarks talk about exceptional operational execution and exceptional commercial execution really kind of hitting the ball out of the park on all fronts.
We probably guided last quarter a little bit conservatively and as I back up to the beginning of the year where I sit today.
Maybe we guided the year a little bit conservatively but I'd rather be a little bit conservative may been aggressive.
We've really seen three big bright spots in 2015 and let me take you through those.
So the first one would be Europe.
So our European business went through a pretty extensive restructuring over the last three or four years.
And the European business has executed very well this year again both commercially and operationally.
And I'd say that their results are probably about a year ahead where we thought they'd be when we started the year.
So again really strong performance in Europe driving some of the up-slide that we've seen in the year.
Secondly the other area I'd highlight is manufacturing.
So manufacturing this year has been a significant tailwind.
And again they are probably about a year ahead of where we thought we'd be as we sit here today versus at the start of the year.
So very smooth operations good cost take out and execution of rebuild which I'll come to in a minute.
And then the third bright spot that I'd highlight would be developing markets.
So there is a fair amount of uncertainty in developing markets when we entered the year.
A fair amount of FX volatility that we have exposure in Brazil India Russia and China.
And so we were a bit conservative on what was going to play out during the year quite frankly.
Given our position and given three of those markets and have pretty big imports.
It's actually turned out to be a bit of a tailwind for us this year versus a headwind.
So I'd say those are probably the three big bright spots for the year and why we probably have a kind of consistently exceeded guidance.
I would probably have a little bit of implication as we look to '16 and beyond because they may not repeat.
Now in regards to your specific question on rebuilds you are right.
We said that rebuild and start-up expense in '15 would roughly equal rebuild expense in '14 with the majority of those expenditures taking place in the second half of the year.
That's broadly still in line with what we expect.
And although rebuild execution has gone very well and expenses are probably tracking a little bit lower than what we anticipated at the start of the year.
And then lastly I just remind you that our Gastonia North Carolina facility is under start up and those cost are going to be more heavily weighted to the fourth quarter which I think I highlighted in my prepared remarks.
That's very helpful Mike thank you for that.
And I guess just second question maybe on the below the operating line you made adjustments for full year guidance in terms of lowering corporate as well as raising the tax rate.
I guess obviously you're not at the point yet to talk about 2016 guidance per se but just wanted to get a sense of thinking about things from an ongoing basis if there were certain items that on the corporate expense were differed in that you might see that moved into '16.
So kind of an ongoing corporate expense.
How to think about that.
And if there are any items again that were shifted forward or the changes there.
And then also on the tax rate with the move up by two points was that due to any type of geographic mix and is that something that on an ongoing basis should be now the more of the go forward type of rate? Thank you Mike.
Yes I think I can help you.
Just as a reminder let's take corporate expense line item first.
So just as a reminder at the start of the year we had guided you a 120 million to 130 million.
On the last quarterly call we lowered that guidance to the low end and then on today's call I have given you guidance of a 110 million.
You will recall that last year corporate expense came in significantly below our first part of the year guidance primarily as a result of lower performance based compensation but also as a result of a very good spend control.
As we went and since started this year we kept the range on corporate cost and had been very disciplined throughout the year.
So we're clearly seeing some benefit there.
And at some point we will have to all right take the reins off a bit.
And then the other thing that happened in the third quarter which won't be repeatable is we had about a $7 million insurance settlement.
So was a claim related to prior to the company's0 bankruptcy that we were successful in collecting on and clearly that won't be repeatable.
And then in regards to tax yes the change in rate is predominately driven by the geographic mix of earnings and then we've also had a couple of prior period adjustments two minors ones which were in the third quarter but the big driver is actually the geographic mix that is driving higher.
I'm probably not going to give you guidance for 2016 but clearly we'll lay that out in much more detail at our Investor Day mid-November.
The one thing I want you to stay focused on though is we have $2.2 billion tax N.O.L and cash tax this year remains unchanged at roughly 10% to 12%.
Our next question comes from Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Ken.
So in roofing Mike you talked about your expectations that from a volume perspective you might up a little bit versus the market because the market share last year.
If I look at the sales you talked about down kind of sequentially 40% volume is the number you kind of threw out there.
Obviously with less volume there is going to be some fixed cost absorption.
Given that pricing was stable sequentially Asphalt's kind of flattened out a bit.
Would you assume that the margin degradation sequentially is going to be largely associated with those fixed cost overhead components or is there actually kind of a change in your variable cost or a hypothetical gross margin there? Yes.
Thanks for the question because I appreciate the opportunity to clarify that.
We think variable margins which is the way we really that's the key management data that we manage the business to internally.
We would expect variable margins to be relatively flat really from the second to the third and now from the third to the fourth.
So the Asphalt cost deflation that we saw come through in the second quarter continue through the third and will continue into the fourth.
Given that the fairly stable variable -- margin performance over the last couple of four months and we would expect through the reminder of the year.
We were explicit today about saying that we think EBIT margins could decline by as much as 10 points in the fourth quarter for the very specific reason you are bringing up.
And it's really on the fixed cost absorption or fixed cost as percent of sales basis.
The downtick in volumes in the fourth quarter will be more pronounced than what we've seen in the last three years primarily because third quarter volumes were better than what we've seen in the last three years producing a bigger down take producing a bigger sequential decline in EBIT margins.
But our variable margins are intact and really in good shape.
Good.
Thanks for that clarification.
And then Mike to you.
I wonder if you can clarify it seems -- I know you guys never look at the stock price but it seem to me you made a comment about perhaps being some -- you're not making any outlook comments on FY '16 but it's certainly I kind of heard some cautiousness around composites.
It seemed I mean and I started to notice the stock moved downside.
I just wonder if you said something that you didn't mean to say in terms of these tailwinds that you had in composites might because they did better than you expected.
It might be headwinds next year I think that where I kind of heard that.
Was that what you meant to say I know you guys will give more clarity at the annuals day but if you would expand on that I would appreciate that.
Thank you.
Yes.
Let me talk to that Ken.
And obviously specific to the stock prices.
We're not working at the stock prices we're in the [indiscernible].
I don’t know.
I know.
I don’t know.
I'm not talking to that.
I will talk about our outlook for composites which is very bullish.
Year ago we improved EBIT in the business by about $50 million.
We were around a $100 million in 2013 we stepped up to a $150 million in 2014.
We've given guidance today that we expect EBIT improvement in the composites business of $80 million in 2015 which would put us well above $200 million; a double digit operating margins.
I think one of the open question has been as we've updated guidance through the year what's going better in composites I would say that the market is going about as we expected.
I'd say pricing is going about as we expected and then our operating performance and our agenda around cost improvement and our agenda around performance improvement in the business is about a year ahead of schedule.
And I think that's maybe what Michael was saying in his comments which is some of the things we are seeing this year which are good guise and helping performance absolutely are repeatable and absolutely are sustainable.
But they are actually some of the performance we expected to see in 2016 now appearing in our 2015 books just because we've gotten a better on the operation side a little bit faster than we expected.
So if there is any confusion at all I want to be very clear we expect operating improvement in Composites in 2016.
We expect volume improvement in Composites in 2016 we expect price improvement in Composites in 2016.
We expect operating margin improvement in Composites in 2016.
We see green lights in that business.
It's operating well today but it's in our view not anywhere yet nearing its potential performance.
We see upside in that business pretty much across all aspects of the business.
And our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hi Mike.
Just to push a little bit on that Composites.
I think you said margin being up next year which sounds pretty optimistic.
And just want to make sure as you dial back maybe to the revenue side.
I think where maybe clients and probably analysis well are a little uncertain.
It's just how you get comfortable with some of the industrial slowdown globally.
That it is a headwind that's to come on the revenue side.
And that's ultimately seemingly been the trigger to weaker than expected margin performance.
So maybe just detail what you've seen recently from a either a geographic and our end channel perspective just to maybe put some confidence behind what you've said from that outlook? Yes I mean let me make a few comments on this and maybe Michael will want to add some additional specifics.
But we're not seeing the slowdown that I think is often reported typically in the ANOS reports associated with our business.
We've seen decent growth in most of the geographies around the world where we think the overall market has probably been declining which is a couple of the developing countries like Russia or Brazil.
We're basic in those countries.
So we have manufacturing operations and generally those were import markets.
So devaluations of the currency have actually benefitted us because it's made imports more expensive it's made our manufacturing cost more competitive.
So some of the places where there was volatility in currencies is actually played a little bit to our advantage because we're in those countries and manufacturing in those countries.
I think it's probably without question that China is slowing down some.
I think slowing down is different than declining.
So if we see volume growth in China that's a couple of points weaker or three points weaker then maybe what we've seen over the last couple of years that's a very different scenario for our business than actually somehow seen that volumes will decline in China.
I have not seen and maybe I'm reviewing different economic reports than the folks on the call.
But we haven’t seen a lot of people calling for China to go into actual negative growth.
We're just seeing commentary that China will likely continue to slow down typically in the industrial side.
Given the amount of progress we've made industry wide on capacity utilization and capacity.
I think the Composite industry is in a position to absorb a slowdown in growth in composites without creating much turmoil in the marketplace.
So in prior cycles when global industrial capacity utilization was maybe in the 80's if you saw a decline with capacity coming online that created a lot of tension in the marketplace and weak pricing.
We don’t see a lot of capacity coming online we see rebuild activity now among our competitors which is a pretty straightforward way to adjust inventories if your outlook to demand changes.
So we think there is a number of tools and levers that are available to us to adjust our capacity relative to market expectations or demand expectations.
So we're relatively bullish.
The last thing I'd say is we've absorbed a pretty tough decline in oil and gas related volumes in North America this year associated with the price in oil.
That's an important end use market and North America is very important market for us.
And we've absorbed that impact this year and still put up very good numbers and very good progress.
We think on year-on-year basis oil and gas will not be robust next year but the decline we see in the oil and gas won't be anywhere near the decline we've had to deal with this year in oil and gas.
So it's not that the business is not been without some challenges.
From a market point of view this year we've overcome challenges in Brazil and Russia.
We've overcome challenges in oil and gas but we've operating very well and feel like that the pricing environment is stable to up.
The volume environment is stable to up.
And I think you can give us that kind of environment.
We've demonstrated we can make very good money in the business.
Okay.
Is it possible if you were to look at the 6% volume in the whole segment just a segment that by North America Europe and Asia-Pacific just to speak to what you're talking to which is pretty broad base strength? We published a slide in our investor doc that shows where our revenue is by geography.
So obviously we are over weighted towards North America we are kind of market weighted towards Europe and we are a little bit under weighted to China.
But China has been the fastest growing market.
So for us to be showing kind of broad based growth across the business; we had growth in the third quarter.
We didn't have a ton of volume growth in the second.
We had very good volume growth in the first.
So kind of a year-to-date basis our volume growth a bit below what we showed in the third but we would see volume growth pretty much in all regions of the world.
So it's been broad-based performance in the business.
And as Michael said are particularly very happy with the rate of improvement we've seen in Europe.
It has exceeded our expectations for the year.
And our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
To build on the last question within composites.
If you look at it from an end user market perspective are there oil and gas I assume is negative but beyond that is there any ones that are really driving what was a perfectly solid volume performance in the --.
Keith it’s Michael.
We have a slide in our investor deck that we kind of show or segment the end market.
So you heard Mike talk about oil and gas being the one market that's weak.
That's probably the one that I'd highlight.
It's been weak otherwise whether it's transportation consumer winter construction we've seen pretty positive trends throughout the year.
In particular I'd probably call out transportation has been really good automotive build this year in particular in North America.
And second question on that part of that business and that goes to the distributors of our margin items.
As we approach the year end how are they thinking about inventories during the winter months and '16 in general? What have you heard from them? As far as I know distribution isn't a huge part of our business.
I think it's actually relatively small.
But things in general are pretty balanced as you know the industry as a whole is operating at 90% utilization within China they're operating at about 90% utilization where actually certain product lines in geographies that are experiencing tightness.
I don't think there is any inventory backup anywhere that I am aware of.
And our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Question on roofing.
You had $15 million in production benefits in the third quarter.
I was wondering if you can maybe expand on because specifically what that entailed.
Did you tend to overproduce demand in the quarter to take advantage of over Asphalt costs? And how is that say from an inventory perspective at the plant level when looking out to force you into next year? Thanks Garik this is Mike.
We did have a benefit in the third quarter relative to the third quarter of last year.
And I think that goes to some additional disclosure that Michael made in his prepared remarks regarding the timing of shipments in roofing and how that impacts our economics.
If you look at last year we had an obviously big first quarter.
We produced through kind of the midpoint or late in the second quarter at pretty high levels and then began to realize that the shipments in the first quarter had created an inventory build that actually was going to blow back in us in the third quarter.
And that's I think in our analysis what we've seen is this [indiscernible] or buy activity in the first quarter hasn't had so much of an impact on the second quarter.
Historically it's actually had an impact on the third quarter.
So last year as we ended the third quarter we took production way down and to give us some runway to be able to get to our year-end working capital targets we needed a fair amount of time to reduce production and had to take production down really across the network for the second half of 2014.
This year we didn't have that big first quarter we didn't produce big in the first quarter.
I would say we've been producing pretty ratably two shipments and as a result we had good production economics in the second where we weren't yet slowing down.
We had good production economics in the third quarter where we produced about two our shipments.
So we didn't have inventory build a little bit actually inventory reduction in the third quarter.
Now we're positioned to produce at the fourth quarter at about what we believe our shipment levels will be to get to our year-end inventory target.
So it's really a timing issue.
Last year in the second quarter we probably benefited from producing when we didn't have as much shipments and then that came back on us in the third.
This year we pretty much produced shipments every single quarter.
So we're comping against a little bit weaker second quarter -- third quarter number last year which was a benefit.
And then we'll comp against I guess a comparable fourth quarter number which is why we'll see margin weakness in the fourth.
Okay.
Shifting at the insulation.
You put up double digit volumes in the business I guess in line with your previous outlook expected to continue in the fourth quarter.
What are the main end markets that it's contributing to that type of volume growth? Is it they coming out of the second quarter you talked about pent up them there because of weather acceleration in U.S.
housing.
Is that really the material contributor to volume or is there something else? Yes.
I mean it's really residential new constructions.
If you look at the current housing start forecast I think for this year it's an 1130 as the consensus somewhere in that range.
That's about a 13% improvement in residential new constructions versus last year where I think we finished at right around a million.
That's actually been a little bit back-end loaded.
So if you look at how the million 130 would play out through the year.
If you recall in the first quarter the housing start numbers we’re kind of printing around a million.
And then really since April-May timeframe we've been more consistently kind of at the million two range.
So we're really seeing new construction at above that 13% growth rate in the second half of the year just based on the timing of the start.
We had some headwinds.
Obviously we are dealing with FX which excluding revenue which is reading top-line.
We have a good side of business in Canada.
We do very well there and obviously the Canadian dollar getting a lot weaker has been hurting top-line.
We also have some resin based foam business particularly polystyrene related.
It was deflation in polystyrene.
We've seen a little bit weaker price environment although margins have been fine in that business.
Because of weaker polystyrene we have not had a robust pricing environment there.
So as a result we have a little bit of topline headwind around from those businesses but we've been overcoming that with growth in residential new constructions in U.S.
primarily.
And our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi it's actually Alex Lin sitting in for George.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just starting up with roofing can you just talk about where the incremental 10 million of Asphalt benefit came from and then kind of related can you provide any color on how we should frame the potential benefit for 2016 assuming no changes from today? Yes Alex.
I assume when you talk about the 10 million in incremental benefit you're talking about third quarter versus second.
And fundamentally that timing issue where we had said coming into the year that we expected about $15 million deflation and we expected to see most of that in the second half.
We updated that guidance on our second quarter call and so that actually we had seen a little bit better volumes in the second quarter.
And as a result we had shipped some shingles.
We had expected that would be second half in the second quarter and as a result had pulled some of our deflation outlook into the second quarter and had got some of that benefit in the second but we didn't have a full quarter benefit in the second.
We didn't really get to a full quarter of benefit associated with deflation until the third.
So I think you're just seeing the impact of three full months of lower Asphalt cost coming through our numbers.
We would expect that to come through our numbers in the fourth quarter or be in a more volume.
So we'll have less benefit in the fourth quarter because we'll ship fewer shingles but the overall cost per shingle benefit would be pretty similar to what we saw probably starting in the mid second quarter and then through the third into the fourth.
You asked a question about next year.
Obviously we do have some ability as we go into next year to have Asphalt come positively for us through the first kind of quarter and a half of next year.
Since we didn't see a lot of benefit through the first quarter and a half we would expect to carry these Asphalt cost through into next year and hopefully I'll be able to take some of that benefit through to the bottom-line in terms of continued margin improvement.
And then we've seen some additional weakness and that in oil prices for a period of time where oil kind of dipped down into the 40's.
Oil has kind of picked up again.
And if you look at the future I am not sure that there is a huge spread today between the oil that's probably in our numbers for the second half of 2015 versus the outlook for all oil prices would be in 2016 but if anything is biased towards the benefit side.
So if you look at our futures that those came to pass we would probably see some additional benefit in 2016 as those oil prices came through relative to what we pay for Asphalt in 2015.
Got it.
I appreciate the color.
And then just second question on capital allocation is there any way to comment on the outlook for CapEx in 2016? I understand it may be a little early in the planning process.
So if not maybe you can just detail what are some of the key areas in opportunities requiring some investment for next year? Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
We've said that kind of reinvestment in the business we feel like we ought to be able to invest in our business at about a 100% in depreciation and in some years 90% of depreciation.
And to keep our assets well maintained safe and get incremental capacity expansions and productivity associated with capital projects and the continuous process type manufacturing environment capital projects tend to bring with them benefits around throughputs and benefits around productivity.
So it's all pretty integrated.
We don't have kind of separate maintenance budgets and productivity budgets.
Our maintenance budgets tend to be productivity budgets and vice versa.
I think that's pretty reasonable going to the next year.
So as you look at the footprint of our business we come through a pretty strong capital spending cycle here in composites.
We have some rebuilds that we we'll do next year and then I think we start to get into a little bit of a benefit beyond 2016.
Related to rebuilds we'll detail that a little bit more at our investor day coming up here in November.
We have announced obviously a couple of big capital projects.
We should be largely complete with capital spending associated with Gastonia by the end of this year which is a non-woven facility.
We'll be in the bulk of the capital spending for our Joplin Missouri mineral fiber facility next year.
So that will be something that we come in above depreciation.
We have a couple of capacity expansion projects that look interesting to us.
But I would say that we've been at in kind of the high 300's the last two or three years which has been both the maintenance and productivity capital as well as the expansion projects.
And we haven't announced anything that would cause you to believe we're going to be above that level.
Alison its Thierry.
I think we have time for one more round of questions.
Certainly.
The next question will come from Mike Wood from Macquarie Securities Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
And I love the Pink Panther music before the call started by the way.
Thanks Mike.
You answered a lot of the short term questions I had.
So I was just wondering if we could switch to some longer term thoughts.
I am curious what your view is.
This year you had the Asphalt deflation you called up.
The price decline more than offset that Asphalt deflation.
Curious what you're thinking as longer term on price cost in the roofing industry sort of what it would take to turn that positive going forward? I think in the near term the most constructive way for us to see some margin expansion in the roofing business would be for us to have additional Asphalt cost deflation and be able to capture that Asphalt cost deflation in our P&amp;L.
I think what we've been able to demonstrate this year in our business is we've been able to do that and I think that's also been an environment that's been constructive for our customers.
I mean if you understand distribution related businesses typically deflating cost hurt the value of your inventories and compress margins.
I mean the roofing distribution market today is very competitive.
So additional deflation of roofing prices would if anything in our view likely put down more pressure on our customers prices which would not be good for their businesses.
So a stable price environment for the manufacturers where we can get to our margin goal and support stable pricing to our customers seems to be a winning formula.
Now obviously the best equation generally in distribution related businesses is rising prices because that revalues our inventories and allows them to expand margins.
We saw some progress this year in the April-May timeframe associated with the May price increase where we did get some positive price utilization.
I think that was good for us and I think that was good for our customers.
I think that's a bit of a challenging thing to guide to or to expect in the deflationary environment.
So our goal would be to try to manage into next year with flat prices sequentially and a little bit more deflation.
And since we won't be comping off of a high priced year like we were in the first half of 2014 our price comparisons would be a little bit better next year and as a result maybe our margins would expand out a bit more.
Great.
As a follow-up around this time last year you commented on your expectations for the winter discount do you have thoughts as whether or not you are going to attempt to lead a low or no winter discount this year? Our view on winter discounting which I don't think has changed much over the last three or four years is that it's not constructive for Owens Corning.
We don't necessarily believe it's constructive for our customers as it got bigger and more widespread.
I think it created price confusion in the marketplace at the distribution level.
It created piles of low cost inventories that had to be worked off through the year.
And we certainly heard feedback from our customers that that was a difficult environment for them.
Also the history of winter discounting that used to be a good idea when the market was much more northern and winter based.
If you look where the United States has houses today and population the market is not quite as seasonal.
So the need for manufacturers to find a way to keep their plants busy in the winter has kind of gone away over the last decade and it all used to be.
The Asphalt prices were a lot more seasonal.
Asphalt prices were very high in the summer and they used to be very cheap in the winter with Koppers and with the changes in refinery economics we don't see that either.
So it's a bit of a time-worn idea in our view that you should try to somehow produce a bunch of shingles in the winter and ship them out and have them in the marketplace as the inventory piles.
Our economics don't support it and I don't think our customers' economics benefit from it.
So our view would be we'd like to see a repeat of our strategy in 2015 which is we would go into next year and sell our customers the product they need in the first quarter of the year and then track their business through the year.
I will say again what I've said in every call though it's a competitive market.
And to the extend we see competitive pricing that doesn't allow us to achieve our margin goals we're going to go where we need to go on competitive pricing to maintain and we defend our market share.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our Question-and-Answer Session.
I will now turn the conference back over to Mr.
Thierry Denis.
Very good.
Thank you everyone for joining us for today's call.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Mike Thaman for a few closing remarks.
Thank you Thierry.
As I noted the outset of today's call Owens Corning had a very strong quarter.
Not only we did we deliver all time best EBIT performance which is something that we're really proud of.
But we also had very good cash performance and that's a performance that we'll continue through the remainder of this year and I think into the coming years.
We’ve made great progress in getting the profitability and returning capital of all three of our businesses in some cases to exceptional levels and in some cases to acceptable levels but in all cases great progress.
I think Michael noted we've been really pleased with the pace of progress in our Composites business.
That business has continued to perform at high levels above our expectations and continue to move its agenda forward at a very quick rate.
The highlights of the quarter for us were insulation putting up 17<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of EBIT growth composites with a ninth consecutive quarter and roofing on a year-to-date basis is now ahead of last year.
It was a bit daunting earlier in the year when at the end of the first quarter we were 60 million behind last year.
We made a good dent in catching that up in the second quarter.
We've now caught fully up in the third quarter and have given guidance on today's call that we expect Roofing to be at or above last year's performance on an EBIT basis and probably a tick ahead of last year's performance on a margin basis.
And given that outlook and given our performance year-to-date we've upgraded our overall corporate guidance a bit.
We were previously in a $460 million to $500 million range.
We said today we now expect it will be at or above the high end of that range.
So lot of things lining up well for the company in 2015.
And I think for me probably the most positive is all of those are things that we believe carry us into 2016 with expectations of continued performance improvement in each of our businesses.
I said in my prepared remarks that we do believe with the right macros and momentum in our external markets that 2016 could mark the year where all three of our businesses produce double-digit EBIT margins.
Any of you who have been around been in investor meetings or at other times know that over the last four or five years that's something I've talked about as a destination for our company.
I think that destination is maybe coming into view and we're getting closer to that as something that will become a reality for us.
We will talk more about that at our investor day on November 18 and go into our businesses in more detail at that time.
We hope many of you are able to join us in person.
We will be putting out the webcast details and the communication details associated with that probably early in the November.
And I think we'll have a very good information on our businesses that help support our strong outlook for the remainder of this year as well as our outlook for '16 and beyond.
Thanks for joining the call.
And we appreciate your interest in our company.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Owens Corning Q4 and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Thierry Denis.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kate and good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us for today's conference call in review of our business results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and CEO; and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-Q that detailed our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year.
For the purposes of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 and we will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the earnings press release from 10-K and a presentation slides at our website owenscorning.com.
Refer to the Investor's link under the corporate section of our homepage.
A transcript and recording of this call and the supporting slides will be available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
First today's remarks will include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future events.
These statements are subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially.
We undertake no obligation to update these statements beyond what is required under applicable securities laws.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and the risk factors identified in our SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent risks and uncertainties affecting such forward-looking statements.
Second this presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release and in the appendix of this presentation on owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period-to-period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded non-recurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effect of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
For the full year our adjusted effective tax rate was 33%.
We also use free cash flow and free cash flow conversion of adjusted earnings as measures helpful to investors to evaluate the company’s ability to use cash to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by CFO Michael McMurray.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our fourth-quarter and full-year 2015 results.
Fourth-quarter revenue was $1.3 billion compared with $1.26 billion one year ago.
Adjusted EBIT for the quarter was $136 million up from $107 million in 2014; adjusted earnings for the quarter were $79 million up from $55 million in the prior year.
For full-year 2015 Owens Corning consolidated revenue was $5.4 billion up slightly from $5.3 billion the prior year.
Full-year adjusted EBIT was $550 million up significantly from $412 million in 2014.
Full-year adjusted earnings were up 46% with $304 million in 2015 up from $208 million in the prior year.
Owens Corning also generated nearly $350 million of free cash flow and exceeded 110% conversion of adjusted earnings.
Owens Corning delivered an outstanding year.
The company is at its best when all of its businesses make meaningful contributions to our financial results.
All three businesses posted significant earnings growth for the year and the company achieved record earnings growth.
Now as I do every quarter I will review our performance as it relates to the expectations we set for the year.
As is the case each year we said that we would continue to make progress toward our goal of creating an injury free work place.
Owens Corning continued to maintain a very high level of safety performance in 2015 with 7% fewer injuries than 2014.
The company had 85% fewer injuries than the average manufacturing company as measured against the rate published by the U.S.
Department of Labor.
We remain focused on our goal of zero injuries.
In Insulation we said the business should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
During the third quarter call we said we expected revenue growth of about 10% in the second half of the year with full-year operating leverage of approximately 40%.
Insulation delivered its 18th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement.
For the quarter the business produced $70 million of EBIT and grew margins to 14%.
We delivered better than expected operating leverage in the fourth quarter on improved productivity and earnings grew by nearly 50% in 2015.
Revenue growth in the second half was slightly below our expectations.
In Composites we updated our 2015 outlook on our third-quarter call and said that we expected an $80 million EBIT improvement over 2014 which included the negative impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar In the fourth quarter the Composites business delivered $44 million of EBIT.
Full-year earnings grew by 56% and the business delivered an $83 million EBIT improvement over 2014 with 12% full year EBIT margins.
Strong commercial and operational execution combined with the strategy of low cost manufacturing has proven successful.
The business delivered outstanding results despite currency headwinds of more than $180 million of revenue impact and $24 million of EBIT impact.
In Roofing we said that we expected full-year U.S.
shingle industry shipments to be in line with 2014 and the full-year benefit from asphalt deflation to be around $60 million.
We also said that the business was positioned to meet or exceed last year’s EBIT performance.
Roofing delivered $34 million EBIT improvement with mid-teen operating margins in 2015.
Pricing was stable through the fourth quarter although it remains below the prior year’s level.
Full-year asphalt deflation was about $70 million with $24 million in the fourth quarter.
The strong fourth quarter resulted in full-year industry shipment growth of about 5% which was above our prior expectation of a flat market for 2015.
We had strong market-based execution on shingle and components sales in terms of both growth and profitability.
We are pleased with the developments in 2015 that have helped us repair margins and position the Roofing business for continued success.
In addition to these business results I want to review other significant accomplishments and milestones that position us well for the future.
Based on the strength exhibited across our portfolio and confidence in our market outlook our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.18 per share representing a 6% increase.
Since the dividend was initiated two years ago we have increased the payout by approximately 13%.
Construction is underway on the $90 million mineral fiber Insulation plant in Joplin Missouri.
We expect this capacity to be available in 2017 and help us meet the needs of our customers in a growing market.
Our new non-wovens Composites plant in Gastonia North Carolina is now in the start-up phase.
The facility will support the growing U.S.
construction market with technology capable of meeting the evolving needs of our customers.
We’re also excited to begin 2016 having announced an agreement to acquire Ahlstrom’s non-wovens and fabrics business reflecting Owens Corning’s commitment to capital efficient growth in our Composites business.
The acquisition which is subject to regulatory approval will provide new revenue technology talent and access to markets.
With that let me now turn to 2016.
In Insulation we expect revenue growth will be slightly weaker than the growth experienced in 2015.
While we do expect margin expansion the magnitude of the improvement could fall below that experienced in 2015 and is dependent upon the progression of pricing and volume in the U.S.
residential new construction market.
In Composites we expect continued growth in the glass fiber market driven by moderate global industrial production growth.
Following very strong earnings growth in 2015 we expect the business to improve EBIT by at least $20 million in 2016 on price and volume growth.
This would represent an EBIT improvement of more than $100 million over two years.
In Roofing we anticipate modest market growth primarily driven by growth in new construction markets.
We hope to see a replay of 2015 with a balanced distribution of shipments that track end market activity.
We expect to see additional asphalt deflation in 2016 and are focused on realizing a portion of the deflation in improved margins.
We anticipate earnings growth in all three businesses in 2016 and expect to provide EBIT guidance later in the year.
With that I’ll now turn it over to Michael who will further review details of our business and corporate performance.
I’ll then return to recap and open the call up to questions.
Michael? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike mentioned earlier Owens Corning delivered an outstanding year achieving record earnings growth driven by strong commercial and operational execution in all three of our businesses.
I am also pleased to report that we made significant progress in free cash flow this year as a result of improved earnings and strong working capital performance.
Now let’s start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the fourth quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today’s news release and the Form 10-K.
Today we reported fourth quarter 2015 net sales of $1.3 billion up 3% as compared to sales reported for the same period in 2014.
Net sales in our Insulation business increased 6% primarily on increased sales volumes.
In our Composites business higher sales volumes and higher selling prices were offset by roughly $42 million of foreign currency translation.
In our Roofing business net sales were up 8% primarily on higher sales volumes.
Adjusted EBIT for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $136 million up $29 million compared to $107 million in 2014.
Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter of 2015 were $79 million or $0.66 per diluted share compared to $55 million or $0.47 per diluted share in 2014.
For the full year the Company delivered double-digit operating margins.
Our 2015 effective tax rate was 33% in line with our previous guidance.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $76 million relatively flat compared to $75 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Full year depreciation and amortization expense was $300 million and capital additions for the year were $403 million excluding alloy.
In 2015 the Company improved cash from operations by almost $300 million as a result of improved earnings better working capital performance and our advantaged tax position.
We achieved free cash flow conversion of adjusted net earnings of 112% and returned $212 million to shareholders through dividends and buybacks.
Now please turn to Slide 7 where we provide a high-level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing 2015 to 2014.
Adjusted EBIT for the year increased $138 million or 33% over last year led by significant improvements in our Composites Insulation and Roofing businesses of 56% 48% and 15% respectively.
General corporate expenses were $108 million in line with expectations.
With that review of key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 8 where we provide a more detailed review of our business results beginning with our Insulation business.
Sales in Insulation for the quarter of $518 million were up 6% from the same period a year ago.
Revenue growth in the second half was slightly below expectations as industry shipments were weaker than anticipated primarily due to an elongating construction cycle and higher than anticipated currency headwinds.
Insulation delivered EBIT of $70 million in the fourth quarter compared to $46 million in the same period one year ago primarily on improved volume and pricing.
This represents 14% operating margins and our 18th consecutive quarter of EBIT improvement.
Operating leverage exceeded expectations in the quarter on strong manufacturing productivity.
For the full year Insulation sales were $1.85 billion up about $100 million as compared to 2014 primarily on increased volume higher selling prices and favorable mix.
EBIT for the full year of $160 million was nearly 50% higher than the previous year EBIT of $108 million primarily on improved volume and pricing.
Pricing improved by $24 million in 2015; however it remains well below the market peak.
While we have made some progress in price in 2016 we had expected a better price environment at the outset of the year and more progress during the year.
Consensus expectations for U.S.
housing starts are above 1.2 million units for 2016; therefore we anticipate a market growth rate for U.S.
residential new construction similar to last year.
We expect another year of earnings growth as our business should continue to benefit from growth in new construction increased industry capacity utilization and improved pricing.
As we said in the earnings release we expect our revenue growth in 2016 will be slightly weaker than the $100 million of revenue growth we experienced in 2015.
While we expect margin expansion the magnitude of the improvement could fall below the 240 basis point improvement we experienced in 2015 and is dependent upon the progression of pricing and volume in the U.S.
residential new construction market.
Now let me provide some additional color.
First our revenue will be impacted by third party contract manufacturing arrangements that we did not extend by mutual agreement at the end of 2015.
Second our margins will be impacted by lower production leverage related to the expiration of these contracts and start-up costs associated with our mineral fiber Insulation facility in Joplin Missouri.
Third the magnitude of our earnings improvement for 2016 will be dependent upon competitive dynamics and commercial outcomes related to the U.S.
residential new construction market.
As I said earlier in my prepared remarks price remains well below the prior peak - even on a nominal basis.
We believe there is further opportunity as the product is fundamentally useful and undoubtedly valuable.
As a reminder our profitable portfolio of products and geographic diversity extends beyond U.S.
residential new construction and we are confident that these businesses will grow earnings in 2016.
Now I will ask you to turn your attention to Slide 9 for a review of our Composites business.
Sales in our Composites business for the fourth quarter were $445 million down approximately 3% from the same period one year ago.
Volume growth of 5% and improved selling prices were offset by currency headwinds of $42 million.
EBIT for the quarter was $44 million down compared to $53 million in the same period last year as expected.
Composites continued to deliver double-digit EBIT margins in the fourth quarter on improved pricing and stronger volume.
Full year sales were $1.9 billion slightly down compared to the same period in 2014.
On a constant currency basis revenues would have grown over 8%.
Volume growth of 4% favorable product mix and improved selling prices were offset by currency headwinds of $182 million.
EBIT for the full year was $232 million an improvement of $83 million or 56% over the prior year on strong commercial and operational execution.
Composites delivered 12% full year EBIT margins.
In 2016 we expect continued growth in the Composites market driven by moderate global industrial production growth.
We are pleased with the progress that we have demonstrated in the Composites business over the past two years including improvements in operating margins and return on capital.
Strong commercial and operational execution combined with a low cost manufacturing network and a tightening capacity environment position the business to continue the momentum we have established.
The financial results we have delivered are roughly one year ahead of schedule.
As a result we expect an EBIT improvement of at least $20 million in 2016 which would result in $100 million of improvement over the two-year period 2015 and 2016.
One further item to note.
In the fourth quarter we discovered an immaterial error in the elimination of revenue between Composites facilities that impacted 2014 and 2015 revenue.
The error did not impact gross margin or EBIT.
We have corrected the amounts for the effected years in our 10K and provided revised segment information by quarter in Table 8 of our Earnings Press Release.
Slide 10 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing sales for the quarter were $368 million an 8% increase compared with the same period a year ago primarily on higher sales volume.
EBIT for the quarter was $53 million up $21 million compared to the same period in 2014 with margins of 14% on volume growth and asphalt deflation of $24 million.
Pricing was sequentially stable through the fourth quarter but remained lower than last year’s level.
Our U.S.
asphalt shingle volumes grew about 30% which was broadly in-line with the market.
The strong fourth quarter resulted in full year industry shipment growth of about 5% which was above our prior expectation of a flat market for 2015.
We believe that the favorable weather conditions extended the Roofing season and drove some of the growth in the fourth quarter.
Sales for the full year were $1.8 billion a 1% increase over the prior year primarily on higher sales volumes.
Full year EBIT increased $34 million.
The business delivered mid-teen operating margins for the full-year on volume growth and asphalt deflation of about $70 million.
I’m pleased to report that we made substantial progress in growing our components business in 2015.
The components business delivered record sales and EBIT for the year and its EBIT growth represented about half of the Roofing segment’s overall improvement for the year.
We are pleased with the performance in our Roofing business.
2015 played out generally as we had hoped.
We saw limited discounting and less inventory build earlier in the year.
We experienced improved volumes and stable pricing in the second third and fourth quarters and asphalt deflation tracked broadly in line with expectations.
Also the market grew for the first time in 4 years.
We anticipate modest market growth in 2016 driven primarily by growth in new construction and possibly some growth in re-roof.
In 2016 we hope to see a similar distribution of shipments as in 2015 and the same constructive market dynamics as we experienced last year.
We continue to see asphalt deflation as a way to improve our margins although we expect our end markets to remain competitive.
Now let me turn your attention to Slide 11 which provides an overview of other significant financial matters and our outlook for 2016.
On January 21 2016 the Company signed an agreement to acquire the nonwovens and fabrics business of Ahlstrom subject to regulatory approval.
This is a highly complementary acquisition that will provide new revenue technology talent and access to markets.
This transaction will further extend our position in glass non-wovens and is consistent with the capital efficient growth strategy of the Composites business.
The assets to be acquired include operations in Finland and Russia.
The €73 million purchase price represents a little less than one times annual revenue.
This transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2016.
The company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share a 6% increase based on the Company’s positive financial outlook and strong cash generation.
In the fourth quarter under a previously announced share repurchase program we repurchased about 1 million shares of the Company’s stock for $46 million.
For the year-to-date we repurchased about 3.1 million shares of the Company’s stock for $134 million.
As of December 31st 4.6 million shares remain available for repurchase under the Company’s current authorization.
As we balance our priorities for the future deployment of our free cash flow both dividends and stock repurchases will be important mechanisms to return capital to shareholders.
Now please turn to Slide 12 where I provide our outlook for 2016.
We expect all three businesses to grow earnings in 2016.
Consensus expectations for U.S.
housing starts are above 1.2 million units and moderate global industrial production growth is projected.
As we discussed at Investor Day improved earnings better working capital performance and our advantaged tax position will translate into a high rate of conversion of adjusted earnings into free cash flow averaging about 100% over the years 2015to 2018.
As we did in 2015 we will provide Corporate EBIT guidance later in the year.
Now please turn to Slide 13 where I provide guidance on other financial items for the year.
We expect corporate expenses between $120 and $130 million.
Capital additions will be about $385 million including approximately $50 million of spending associated with our mineral fiber Insulation facility in Joplin Missouri.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about $320 million.
Interest expense is expected to be about $110 million.
Our $2 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
As a result of our tax NOL and other tax planning initiatives we expect our 2016 cash tax rate to be 10% to 12% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Our 2016 effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 32% to 34% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Thank you and I will now hand the call back to Mike.
Thank you Michael.
As I noted at the outset of today’s call Owens Corning achieved record earnings growth driven by strong commercial and operational execution in each of our three businesses.
Insulation Composites and Roofing all showed strong year-on-year improvement in 2015 and contributed materially to our performance.
We’re confident as we enter 2016.
With all three businesses performing well continued growth in U.S.
housing and global industrial production growth we will see another strong year for Owens Corning.
With that I will turn the call over the Thierry to lead us in the question and answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Kate we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Well thanks very much guys.
Congratulations.
Great result.
Thank you Stephen.
If we - lots of questions we could ask.
But let's just start with Roofing.
One of the things we've heard from people there's been a little bit of confusion because you don't actually give an actual blended price or anything like that.
But your performance in pricing shingle pricing appears like it was pretty much in line with our expectations flat sequentially but down 5% to 6% just by way of the fact that Q4 2014 had a more elevated price level.
By our math though by the time you get into 1Q the decline in pricing or the headwind from pricing year-over-year should drop into the very low single-digits and really not be that much of an effect.
So your comment about having pricing or I guess having raw material benefit flow into your margins would seem to suggest would seem to dovetail pretty well with what we're looking for.
But I didn't hear you give an actual number for raw mats.
So I guess maybe if you could help us? If the asphalt and oil prices remain where they are now what would your expectation be ballpark for the benefit that you would get on raw mat from the lower asphalt costs? Sure thanks Stephen.
I think we laid out some pretty useful information for our investors in our Investor Day back in November.
And went through some of the relationships that we see between oil and asphalt cost and then also how long it takes the oil cost to come through our economics by 90 days to get to the refinery about 90 days to get through our cost of goods.
As a result of that I think we said a number of times last year we didn’t really see much deflation in 2015 until really the middle of the second quarter.
So we have one benefit in 2016 which we really expect to see really pretty good comps in the first quarter and half of the year on asphalt cost deflation as we carry what was effectively the big drop from a $100 a barrel to kind of $50 to $60 a barrel.
We haven't seen that yet in the first part of the 2015 numbers.
We would expect to see that in the first part of 2016 numbers.
We then have a second effect which we saw kind of in the second half of '15 where oil then moved further down off of kind to $50 to $60 range and where we see it now.
Those affects would start to probably come through our numbers a little later in the first half of the year as they work their way through.
So I think it's reasonable to conclude that we are looking at asphalt deflation that could be sizable and not just similar to what we saw last year.
I think it's hard to quantify that given the amount of volatility we've seen in oil that the second half of the year is still yet to be seen in terms of what we would buy now and when it would come through our economics but we're pretty optimistic that on the cost side we should have a good profile in Roofing and then the real issue is obviously going to be in terms of price and volume how much of that comes through in terms of our volumes and how much of that we can get the margin in terms of margin appreciation.
Got it.
Certainly that would suggest if you did what you did last year raw material benefit it actually sounds like it could be better than that and your price headwind is only a couple percent sounds like it would be very good for your margins.
There are a lot of things we could ask about but let's talk about the Composites business.
We know that you have - I think it's about half of your business there is on fixed contracts.
Most of those I would think are - well they are at this point I guess locked in for much of the first three quarters of the year of 2016.
And you've given guidance for 20% - $20 million EBIT or better improvement in 2016.
This is the segment that people have a lot of concerns about given the Chinese export threat.
So I guess the real question that I have for you is how much of your $20 million improved guidance for the Composites segment is largely a function of the pricing dynamic that you have very high confidence in giving what you've already contracted for? And what kind of assumptions are you making about an evolution of a potential export threat from China? Thanks Stephen it’s Michael.
How are you? So a couple of things you're right.
So there is about 50% of our volumes that are up for annual negotiation.
Those negotiations take place in the fourth quarter and broadly conclude in the first quarter.
As you would have seen in our press release and also in my prepared remarks and Mike's prepared remarks is that we expect at least $20 million of improvement primarily coming from both growth and pricing and growth and volumes.
I can't tell you that we are largely through our negotiations that take place on an annual basis and we make good progress so in line with our expectation.
The next question is from Mike Wood of Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just to follow up on that asphalt deflation.
In your prepared remarks you had mentioned that you'll benefit from a portion of the asphalt deflation.
Just wondering in your mind what determines how much of the asphalt benefit you'll be able to hold in terms of pricing or potentially have to give back? I think we've said this over and over again as we worked our way through kind of the Roofing business over the last three years or four year.
It's a very competitive market and we see regional dimensions product line dimensions channel dimensions to the competition.
So the nature of the Roofing business is very much kind of a day-to-day transaction by transaction type pricing environment.
It has been relatively stable over the course of the last year.
We think that's a positive for us as a manufacturer.
We also think it's probably a positive to most of our channel partners as they have better visibility to their cost of goods better visibility to their inventory cost which allows them to distribute or retail the product at good margin.
So we think the way the market played out in 2015 with relatively stable pricing through the year and with us being able to get a little bit of margin improvement from asphalt cost deflation was a very good outcome for us in '15.
And got margins back to kind of that mid teens level which is where we have historically guided the business.
As a matter of fact we guided the business kind of to mid teens of better operating margins.
I think our hope as we look at 2016 would be that we continue to have a good demand environment and we were happy with the way that we've finished that really the entire Roofing shipments and Roofing market ramps through the finish line and didn't die off on the fourth quarter but had a good finish to the year.
We've seen a relatively good start to this year so we're expecting that demand in sell-through out there is reasonably good and there is good Roofing activity which typically supports little bit more stable pricing and as a result if that’s the environment we're in it will look a lot like 2015 and then the asphalt cost deflation would help us a bit more in getting our margins back to something that will be above mid teens.
Great.
And the Composite volumes that growth has really been holding in.
I would hope if you can give us some color on what segments are leading that growth? Potentially what end markets are offsetting any of the strong growth that you're seeing? Thanks.
I'd say all regions are seeing growth and so for the full year we put up about 4% of volume growth really nice progress that we saw in Europe for 2015.
Application weakness one application weakness would be oil and gas which we experienced in 2015 we’ll probably see a bit of weakness in oil and gas for this year as well.
Our China volume last year we're up.
China volumes were up also in the fourth quarter along with profitability.
The Russian economy and the Brazilian economy are pretty difficult but we have unique position there and unique cost position that's actually done quite well from a profitability and commercial point of view as well.
So I'd say we're cautious but things are progressing pretty well even as we get off to the start here in 2016.
The next question comes from Kathryn Thompson of Thompson Research Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my questions today.
First on the Composite position how much would the Ahlstrom acquisition contribute to your 2016 segment earnings? And if you could give a little bit more color on the potential contribution and answering why now in terms of their willingness to sell? Thank you.
Yes Kathryn.
So I'll take the first part of the question and I'll let Mike come in and ask the why now or answer the why now.
Again the acquisition itself is about €73 million a little less than one time sales.
We expect to get the deal closed in the second quarter so it's still subject to regulatory approval.
From a current year perspective I think it's not going to be really anything to talk about from an accretive point of you.
But as we move into 2017 and get the full year affect and slowly start to bring down synergies.
It's going to be a nice deal.
And then just some comments about kind of why now I think your question was probably more from the Ahlstrom perspective on why now than from our perspective.
And I think if you look at what Ahlstrom had to say I think they're refocusing their business and as a result decided they didn't want to be in the fiberglass Composite business.
We obviously just being a core business of ours and something we're the market leader feel like people who want to exit this business we're the logical home for these assets.
So it was a wonderful opportunity for us to extend our European business to the East and to the North.
Our non-wovens business and fabrics business is primarily in Western Europe.
This puts us in the Finland it puts us in the Russia it puts us into some new end use market.
So it was a very good fit with our footprint as well as our expansion of our non-wovens business with the Gastonia investment.
So it was really a logical next step for us in terms of building out and strengthening our downstream businesses or our value added businesses.
And I think there was a good meeting of the minds between us and Ahlstrom that now is a good time to do this.
Great.
On Insulation could you give more color on the driver for the decision to discontinue third-party contracts? And how much did pricing or other factors take into that decision? Thank you.
Thanks for that question.
We have from time to time manufactured product for third parties under other brand names.
That's the business that kind of built up over the course of the last three or four years when an industry is going through a very challenged time.
It's a pretty logical effort to try to optimize your business that you would try to use some contract manufacturing to maybe load assets that were underutilized then we were the beneficiary of some business in that regard.
I think if you look at some of the things we showed at our Investor Day we think we're in a business kind of in that transition point now ongoing from looking forward to the volumes that will load our assets to trying to figure out how we meet growth in the new construction market that should load our assets and potentially produce better margins for us.
So there was going to come a point in time where it made more sense for us to have our capacity available to us in order to support the growth of our customers.
We worked our way through some of these agreements at the end of last year and concluded that it was in the best interests of our shareholders of our business forced to take the capacity back to make it available to support our own growth.
To give you kind of an order of magnitude we described a line in the industry is being about 100 million pounds.
We had about one line of capacity spread throughout our network that was subject to contract manufacturing.
We also said in the last Investor Day that 100 000 units of growth in new starts produces 215 million -- 200 million pounds of end use demands.
So if you kind of work your way through that map 100 000 units of growth are a little bit more which is consensus at our market share level would require us to need about a line of available capacity in any given year to support our portion of the growth.
So we're looking downstream in terms of '16 '17 '18 and think how do we want to position our assets and now seems like it's a good time to do that.
Obviously the challenge for us is we have been growing the business at about $100 million the last few years.
I think we get a little more cautious outlook related to contract manufacturing today saying we expect overall revenue growth this year will be a little bit below what the three-year trend was.
But I think it is back on trend as we see new construction growth beyond '16.
The next question is from Ken Zener of Keybanc.
Please go ahead.
Just sticking with the Insulation could you comment on -- you talked about perhaps a little lower pricing which would seem to go to perhaps lower than that 50% leverage that long-term target.
Could you kind of break that -- the pricing discuss what's happening there? How that relates to perhaps lower new construction than people had initially expected a year ago and/or how much of that price? I would think by not doing third-party contracts you would actually have a richer margin there rather than it -- obviously it sounds like you lost some volume leverage there.
But could you go into the pricing in the EBIT leverage a little bit more? Thank you.
Sure happy to do that.
Let me just back chart for a second and talk just about operating leverage broadly.
We've said this under the calls that there has been kind of three phases.
Operating leverage know the real depths of the downturn.
We had hot assets that were underutilized and basically our marginal cost in production was relatively close to zero.
So any time you saw any growth at all and you could load hot asset you could get the marginal contribution against really really good marginal economics.
And we were able to get some early operating leverage by doing that even though the margins in the business were pretty lousy.
As we got into kind of the mid stage we started to get back to some level of profitability at the variable cost level and then at the fixed cost absorption level.
So you could get some growth that both gave you some cost absorption actually the growth could contribute some amount of earnings and then we started to see some pricing that also helped us sustain 50% operating leverage over the last couple of years.
We're not kind of entering a stage where our assets are a bit better utilized.
The business at the manufacturing level in U.S.
new constructions is profitable at the manufacturing level.
So growth produces some amount of earnings from volume growth but really we're at the stage now where to stay on track with our operating leverage guidance we're going to need to see some acceleration of price.
If you look at 2015 we didn't really see an acceleration of price.
We had decent price performance in the first part of the year but in the middle of the year where in prior years we had had some decent success on pricing.
We did not have as much success in 2015.
As a result we're carrying a bit less price into 2015.
We do have a price action in the market today that we've talked about previously on apriority call.
I think we feel pretty good about our ability to realize price in the early part of this year.
But obviously given with what happened last year how price progresses through 2016 how volume progresses through 2016 is going to have a big impact on the rate of improvements in the business and our outlook.
So with a little bit weaker topline because of a contract manufacturing little bit of lost leverage what we're guiding today would suggest we're going to need to see some acceleration of pricing to really be able to get strong operating leverage in '16.
We did over deliver our operating leverage a bit in '15.
We had guided the 40% we come in at 50%.
I think over the last four or five years we were at about 53% overall leverage.
So I don't think on a multiyear basis we are at all off track on where we would have said operating leverage level will be but a little bit of question I think this year in terms of what it will track exactly to that guidance.
Thank you.
I do appreciate that clarity.
Looking at Composites with Ahlstrom selling its assets the success of your Brazil assets despite a very difficult end market points to the fact that you guys operate well outside your country as opposed to some of your foreign competitors I would say.
With Ahlstrom selling with your ability to execute better in Brazil and probably in some other markets where people are producing let's say from Chinese assets what is that really saying? If we could take a step back about how the overall composite market is consolidating and/or the Chinese inability to really execute very efficiently outside of their home country.
I mean what does that broadly mean? With pricing and volume being very good your margins indicate that's very good it seems like we're approaching a point where if there's some new capacity is there going to be something irrational? I know there's stuff you talked about with North Carolina with the Chinese but it seems that's very well structured industry right now and in fact it's moving in your favor due to what we're seeing out there.
Is there anything that would really concern you if capacity additions were to come on or volume or specifically the Chinese currency were to devalue? Thank you.
Mike this is - Ken this is Mike.
I think what we have seen over the last couple of years is a validation of our strategy which has been very much of an in-country for-country manufacturing strategy.
So we never believe when we saw the huge buildup of capacity in China during the 2000s that there was enough factory cost advantage or relative cost advantage of manufacturing all the world's glass in China and shipping it all over the world.
We obviously got well ahead of ourselves in terms of industry supply but there was a glut of capacity in China in 2009 and we needed to see industry growth both in China and outside of China to get back to some level of reasonable balance.
Through that period of time we invested in China to meet the demand that we saw in China we invested in Russia to meet the demand we saw in Russia we continue to invest in Brazil and India to meet the demand we see in those countries within low cost and Europe and the U.S.
And we think we are returning back to an industry that looks more similar to what we would had seen in the 80s and the 90s than what we saw in the 2000s which is generally glass manufactured and consumed in a regional economy is the best match.
So when you look at where we are today even in Brazil and Russia those are tough economies right now.
But to Michael's point we are the largest scale manufacturer in each of those two economies and they are generally import economies.
As the economy has weakened and the currency has weakened it's very difficult for import manufacturer to compete in those markets.
We have a nice cost position because our costs are denominated in local currency.
And as a result we are able to service the local market.
And if we have excess capacity we are able to export.
We see the Ahlstrom deal pretty similar to that so we are buying assets today in Finland and Russia.
Obviously we took a lot of thought into putting additional capital into Russia but we have low-cost glass manufacturing the Russia which will be the feedstock to the Ahlstrom asset that we intend to buy in Russia.
So we do believe we'll have a vertically integrated kind of ruble denominated asset in Russia.
That will give us a good opportunity to serve the Russian market which is quite big and non-woven and also give us capacity to potentially be exported.
I'll say the same thing about the assets outside of Russia.
So our overall strategic philosophy in global businesses has been kind of in-country for-country.
And I think you've seen over the last four or five years not without some pain that that strategy is the right strategy to fit the dynamics of the markets we are in.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
I just want to focus on the Roofing side just a clarification.
It sounded like the sell-through was stronger than expected and there was some explanation or there was an explanation for some of the benefit for weather.
But could you maybe just account for the volume difference by either an end market whether that's R&amp;R or whether that was storm-related activity? Well we do our own analysis which we publish of overall Roofing volumes where we break it down by new construction versus classical R&amp;R versus storm-related demand either major storms or where we think storm activity or weather has had a contribution to improving the market condition.
We actually believe what we saw in terms of the growth in 2015 which was about 4% or 5% overall growth in shipments by all Roofing manufacturers including ourselves is that the bulk of the growth probably came in the new construction segment where we saw housing start off about 10%.
And then in classic repair remodel segment people were placing roofs that have just aged out.
We took some confidence from the fact that business stayed strong through the fourth quarter.
I think on the one hand you can say well we had kind of favorable weather and the weather was kind of mild then it extended the Roofing season.
I can tell you probably three of the last four years this is my estimation.
The Roofing season probably stopped just as much because there was no demand out there as it did stop for weather.
So we had contractors that were being reported back to us because they said very weak backlogs at year-end.
So even if the weather had been favorable they didn't have a lot of work to go get done.
I think the fact that favorable weather caused more work to get done would suggest that on the other side of the contract there are more home owners who are interested in improving their house.
Now we do think some of the work that got done in the fourth quarter at some point will come out of 2016.
So we are off to a decent start in the first part of this year.
Contractors are reporting reasonable with backlogs but its possible that as they worked their way through the 2016 backlog the fact that we got ahead of the curve at the end of 2015 may suggest as we get to the second half of 2016.
We won't see as much growth but overall we are looking for probably some growth in the overall market which would suggest growth in new construction maybe flat to a little bit down in that classic reroof market with a stable storm-related or weather-related market.
That's very helpful.
Just on Insulation side this is my read into your commentary but I would appreciate some additional color on there.
It would suggest that maybe there's a slower take-off or sell-in the market over the last couple of months maybe since the Analyst Day.
And then what does that imply in terms of on the volume and pricing side? Are you suggesting that your end market or the builders in particular are taking a little bit more of a wait and see approach in terms of how the construction season develops hence the caution on the outlook on that particular sector? Yes.
Obviously our fourth quarter revenue performance in Insulation was probably a bit below the expectation as we said either on our third quarter call on Investor Day.
I think that's primarily related to construction cycles maybe gaping out a little bit in the second half of the last year.
So we model our business on the assumption that 90 days after housing start is when you see Insulation demand.
And that's been through time a pretty good relationship.
I think that relationship maybe extended a bit in the second half of last year.
We've heard that from other sectors of the building materials industry.
We track labor growth and if you look at some of the trades they will be important to Insulation demand.
You didn't see much labor growth in framing contracting in the second half of 2015 which we suggest maybe there is some bottlenecks out there in terms of framing some bottlenecks in terms of getting Insulation done.
So I think the good news would be that suggest there is some demand that we would have expected to see in '15 that's carried over into '16.
Said the other way though once those bottlenecks start to emerge they can cause the cycle for construction to push out a little bit.
So we gave our guidance for 2016 under the assumption that cycle is relatively stable but maybe a bit elongated in terms the demand that we would see.
Overall though we are pretty bullish on housing.
Obviously it's hard in today's environment with as much financial market volatility as we have seen in the last four or five weeks to make a near term estimate of how that affects consumer confidence and the confidence of a home owner to buy a house.
But certainly the underlying indicators of traffic homeowner intention to buy affordability some of the other things that drive housing have continued to improve and we would suggest that we will see another year of good housing performance this year.
The next question is from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Two questions.
First on the rebuild schedule for 2016 from a cost perspective how is that going to change incrementally 2016 versus 2015? And then second question on currency heard Composites a fair amount this year.
As you look at currency rates where they are now what will the impact be in 2016 as well? Hi Keith it's Michael.
Thanks for that.
From a rebuild expense perspective year on year so '15 versus '16 broadly flat.
And then from a currency perspective a significant headwind obviously in 2015 it will be just a slight headwind in '16.
Let me just add one there.
The one place we probably will see a bit of currency this year that will end up talking about as we go through the year would be in our Insulation business.
The Canadian dollar has gone very weak as most of you know.
We have a decent business in Canada.
So we didn't quite see that through all of '15 and I think we are going to see a bit more of that in '16.
The Euro dollar which was the big theme for us in '15 seems like it's primarily in the rear view mirror but some of the Canadian dollar effects will still come through Insulation business in '16/ And specifically for Composites by $9 million to $10 million headwind this year Just like to sneak another one in on Composites the rebuild.
You've done a lot of rebuilds by the time we get to the end of 2016.
Beyond that will that ramp down substantially in subsequent years? Yes so it will begin to ramp down as we move into '17.
The next question comes from Garik Shmois of Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about mix in Composites and how you're viewing that in 2016? And then specifically to some of the seasonal components if I remember correctly the beginning part of 2015 had some significant benefits from product mix that potentially could be a headwind in the first half.
Just wondering if I remembered that correctly in how you're viewing mix and the evolution of mix against the comp as you look out over the next several quarters? That’s a great question so let me talk at a high level and then I’ll come down and actually talk specifically to some of the specialty glass sales that we had in 2015.
At a high level our assets are generally running at high utilization and that’s across regions but also across product lines and so we are seeing some tightness.
And so therefore our commercial teams are focusing on our business it tends to be a higher price and therefore higher margin products.
We also had a pretty successful pricing and margin enhancement efforts that’s been underway for the last couple of years really getting our commercial teams to be better at selling in higher margin products.
And then if you remember from Investor Day one of the key themes that we brought forward was our focus on new product introductions and those new product introductions are tend to carry higher margins and products that they are replacing.
And then lastly specifically around specialty glass sales from last year we don't expect that to repeat and that’s about $60 million.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then secondly I was wondering if you could comment a little bit on Roofing inventories just given the strong sell-in in the fourth quarter.
Are you seeing any excess channel inventories for Roofing? If I remember correctly you entered 2015 with relatively low inventories and that turned out to be favorable for yourself and the industry.
Just wondering if you could also talk about where you're seeing inventories right now and how you expect the progression to move through 2016.
I mean we don’t have great visibility to inventories but we have good relationships with our customers and have kind of ability to evaluate what we think is going on out there.
Obviously the fact that we continued to shift relatively good volumes through the fourth quarter would suggest to us that inventories are on very good shape at the distribution level.
I mean typically most of our customers are in calendar year given the dynamic of shingles most of them do not have huge incentive they want to carry excess inventory the year end that's when they do their financial results that’s when they report to the borrowers.
And then also that’s typically when their business is the weakest.
So that would be the time of the year were our experiences in the industry tries to drive to all levels of inventory and yet we were seeing pretty broad based shipments geographically by channel through December suggesting most of our customers were where they wanted to be on inventories when we entered this year in a solid position.
This is Thierry we probably have time for one more round of questions.
The next question comes from Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Some of the mothball capacity that came on last year in Insulation may have weighed on pricing.
Is that largely absorbed at this point? Can you talk about how the industry is behaving? Is there opportunity for two price increases like in years past? This is Mike.
I think that we framed our kind of view of the industry and how we see kind of our position in the industry.
We do believe and has held to a position that the fact that Insulation prices are still so far below where nominal prices were a decade ago.
Is there a real problem for our business and then we need to get pricing back to levels that would reassemble where we were in the last cycle in order to get profitability back to reinvestment economics? I think Michael use the phrase that our product is useful and undeniably valuable.
I think that that’s a simple description of how we should think about the Insulation business.
That said it’s a competitive market and we have not yet seen the real acceleration of pricing that maybe our analysis would suggest should come at some point in this cycle.
So we continue to go out there and fight for every order and believe that we can grow our business at the topline and at the EBIT line in 2016 and beyond.
But we still have our eye for the long term I guess for the mid-term.
I'm trying to get back to pricing levels that will support higher levels of profitability to give us some return on the challenges that we experienced over the last decade where the business didn’t performed very well.
Got you.
That's helpful.
And I guess bigger picture in the next leg of growth on starts I would imagine you're going to have to bring on some higher cost capacity on the mothball side.
Are you thinking about bringing that stuff on a function of getting a proper return before you actually pull the trigger and holding back on maybe seeing some volumes and taking the price over volume? Can you talk about how you approach that? Thanks.
I mean we’ve said it’s going to be a difficult to want to go back and turn on a facility that has been shut down.
I mean we tend to think of our shutdown facilities the same way the utility industry would think about peakers which is you’re going to bring them on they’ll probably run for a period of time but then if the economy rolls over and you start to see a decline in housing those are also the facilities that are going to shut down quickly.
So you need to be able to make a quick simple return in cash on cash.
And certainly today we are not close to that.
I think what Michael shared in terms of contract manufacturing has given us some availability to some low-cost capacity that is now back inside our supply chain.
So the next tranche of growth that we see is low-cost assets that we were using to service the contract market which will not be available to us to support growth over the next couple of years.
So we backed down there a little bit to make sure that we could have our own low-cost capacity available for us to serve to our customer.
So we are managing that balance in our supply chain and we believe that we’ve got our assets very well positioned for how we see the recovery playing out in the next couple of years.
This concludes our question and answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Thierry Denis for any closing remarks.
Very good.
Well thank you everyone for joining us for today’s call.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Mike Thaman for a few closing remarks.
Sure Thierry thanks.
Obviously we are very proud of the results that we reported today.
Owens Corning had a great year.
We saw all three businesses show very very good improvement.
As a corporation it was our all-time record year in terms of EBIT growth.
But in addition to the strong EBIT growth in all three of our businesses the strong earnings growth as Michael noted we also had very strong free cash flow which is then a focal point for the company over the last two or three years of getting on to a little bit better cash conversion.
So from a financial performance and a diversity across our mix of businesses and across our portfolio of companies or businesses we really feel like 2015 was a great step forward for our company.
We think 2016 is going to be another similar big step forward.
We expect all three businesses to again show year-on-year improvements in earnings and some growth.
We'd expect to see Owens Corning show strong EBIT growth as evidenced in some of the conversations we had today about our outlook.
We'll reserve fully quantifying what we think that EBIT outlook will be later in the year so we get better visibility.
I'd say probably to the evolution of the Roofing market to the first half as well as the evolution of Insulation volumes and pricing as they progress through the first half of the year.
So I think we’ll get better visibility probably as we get into our second quarter earnings call.
I think we are appropriately cautious.
Given the uncertainty we see in the global economy today and the volatility of some of the markets but we are also quite confident that the businesses are performing at high levels and that we can produce very good returns for our shareholders irrespective of the fact that we are in a little of a challenging and somewhat choppy marketplace.
So we're looking forward to 2016.
We appreciate your ongoing support and we look forward to talking to you again on our first quarter call.
Thanks The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Owens Corning Fourth Quarter 2013 and Year End Results.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that today's call is being recorded today Wednesday February 12 2014.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's call Thierry Denis Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Rachel and good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us for today's conference call and review of our business results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013.
Joining us today are Mike Thaman Owens Corning's Chairman and CEO and Michael McMurray Chief Financial Officer.
Following our presentation this morning we will open this one-hour call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Earlier this morning we issued a news release and filed a 10-K that detailed our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year.
For the purpose of our discussion today we've prepared presentation slides that summarize our performance and results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013.
We will refer to these slides during this call.
You can access the press release Form 10-K and the presentation slides at our website owenscorning.com.
Refer to the Investors link on the bottom right side of our homepage.
A transcript and recording of this call and the supporting slides will be available on our website for future reference.
Please reference Slide 2 before we begin where we offer a couple of reminders.
Today's presentation and remarks include forward-looking statements based on our current forecasts and estimates of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements.
Additional information about the risks uncertainties and factors that could cause these material differences can be found in today's press release as well as in our 2013 Form 10-K.
This presentation and today's prepared remarks contain non-GAAP financial measures.
The calculations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures may be found within the financial tables of our earnings release on owenscorning.com.
Adjusted EBIT is our primary measure of period-over-period comparisons and we believe it is a meaningful measure for investors to compare our results from period to period.
Consistent with our historical practice we have excluded nonrecurring items and items that we believe are not representative of our ongoing operations when calculating adjusted EBIT.
We adjust our effective tax rate to remove the effects of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations which have the potential to be significant in arriving at adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share.
For those of you following along with our slide presentation we will begin on Slide 4.
And now opening remarks from our Chairman and CEO Mike Thaman who will be followed by CFO Michael McMurray.
Mike will then provide comments on our outlook prior to the Q&amp;A session.
Mike? Thank you Thierry.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
2013 was a good year for Owens Corning.
We grew adjusted earnings per share by nearly 70% and increased adjusted EBIT by $123 million.
All of our businesses increased EBIT versus 2012 including an improvement in both the third and fourth quarters.
This momentum gives the company a positive trajectory for continued earnings growth.
And as we announced in this morning's press release our Board of Directors has established a quarterly dividend as an additional mechanism to return value to our shareholders.
I'm pleased that our strong financial improvement in 2013 and confidence in our business outlook allowed the board to make this decision.
Let me start with a summary of the company results for the fourth quarter and full year.
Owens Corning consolidated revenue for 2013 was $5.3 billion up from $5.2 billion in 2012.
Full year adjusted EBIT was $416 million compared to $293 million last year.
Full year adjusted earnings were $221 million compared to $131 million in the prior year.
Fourth quarter revenue of $1.28 billion was up from $1.16 billion in the same period.
Adjusted EBIT for the quarter was $96 million up from $52 million in 2012 and adjusted earnings for the quarter were $52 million up from $13 million in the prior period.
Now I will review our performance as it relates to the expectations we set earlier in 2013.
As I always do let me start with safety.
We maintained our safety performance in 2013 when compared with the prior year.
The company continues to operate at a very high level relative to industry benchmarks.
In fact Owens Corning had 88% fewer injuries than the average manufacturing company when measured against the rates published by the U.S.
Department of Labor.
I'm delighted to note that we've been named the 2014 National Safety Council Green Cross recipient for our ongoing safety performance an achievement that recognizes the tremendous progress that our team has made in eliminating injuries.
Our goal continues to be 0 injuries and we entered 2014 with a renewed purpose and energy toward that goal.
In Roofing we said that we would improve margins and see better pricing.
Roofing delivered 20% margins for the year.
This 4 point margin recovery over 2012 represents the execution of our teams on pricing initiatives and customer relationships.
Our Roofing volumes were down mid-single digits in line with the market.
The overall market was down due to a negative storm comparison and a weaker re-roof market.
Despite some variability from quarter-to-quarter we maintained our overall position in the market in 2013.
In the Insulation business we said that continued improvement in U.S.
housing market would translate to a return to profitability for the business in 2013.
The business delivered a profit of $40 million for the full year.
Full year revenue grew 12% with year-on-year EBIT improvement of $78 million.
Operating leverage continued to be strong with leverage of 50% since the start of the housing recovery.
We expect the business should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
We said we expected the Composites business to improve financial performance as the year progresses by demonstrating operating leverage in a stable price environment.
For the full year EBIT improved by $7 million.
In 2013 we saw a slower-than-anticipated rate of industrial production growth and we did have some manufacturing challenges.
We saw price improvements in the second half of the year.
In the fourth quarter the business had a year-on-year EBIT improvement of $13 million on better pricing stable manufacturing performance and volume growth.
In addition to these strong business results for the year I wanted to review other significant accomplishments that have strengthened our company and positioned us well for 2014.
In our Building Materials segment we acquired Thermafiber a mineral wool insulation manufacturer.
We will leverage this capability for growth in the commercial insulation markets.
We both completed the rebuild of our Kearny New Jersey roofing plant and resolved the insurance claim in 2013.
This facility was damaged in the fall of 2012 by Superstorm Sandy.
We opened a new insulation plant in Xi'an China to meet the growing demand of Western China.
In Composites we strengthened our capability and cost position in China with strategic actions that will help us meet future demand and reduce our capital intensity.
We began construction on a $130 million nonwovens composites plant in North Carolina.
When operational in mid-2015 the new facility will support the growing U.S.
construction market with technology capable of meeting the evolving needs of our customers.
Finally our board initiated a quarterly dividend of $0.16 per common share in recognition of our strong cash generation capability and expectations of sustained financial performance.
We finished 2013 with strong year-on-year EBIT improvements across all businesses leading market positions and great technologies.
Our team has demonstrated the ability to execute through changing market conditions.
With that let me now turn to 2014.
The momentum of 2013 provides the confidence we will deliver another strong year in 2014.
Our current outlook for a continued recovery of the U.S.
housing market as well as improved global growth supports guidance of $500 million in adjusted EBIT.
In addition to another year of EBIT growth we expect strong cash flow as a result of better performance in Insulation and our advantaged tax position.
Key elements of our current outlook include: The Roofing business will deliver another strong year in 2014.
We anticipate market growth in new construction with flat or potentially improving re-roof demand.
Our Insulation business should continue to benefit from growth in U.S.
residential new construction improved pricing and operating leverage.
In Composites the company expects improving market conditions and pricing to drive EBIT growth year-over-year.
Improved manufacturing performance and higher volumes are expected to offset higher rebuild expenses.
Overall we delivered a strong 2013 and we expect to deliver another strong 2014.
Our businesses are executing on the right strategies and we are seeing continued improvement in our key markets.
I will now turn the call over to Michael for a more detailed discussion on our financial performance.
Michael? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Today I'm pleased to report that Owens Corning delivered strong results for the quarter and full year 2013.
All 3 businesses improved their financial performance and our Insulation business achieved an important milestone delivering its first profitable year since 2008.
We believe the actions we have taken combined with the recovering markets will continue to drive the improved financial performance in 2014.
Now let's start on Slide 5 which summarizes our key financial data for the year and the fourth quarter.
You will find more detailed financial information in the tables of today's news release and the Form 10-K.
Today we reported 2013 revenues of $5.3 billion compared with $5.2 billion in 2012.
Sales in our Insulation business grew by 12% on stronger volumes higher selling prices and the acquisition of Thermafiber.
In our Roofing business sales were down 2% resulting from lower volumes which were in line with the market.
Lastly sales in our Composites business were down 1% primarily due to foreign currency translation.
In a moment I'll review our reconciliation of items to get to adjusted EBIT our primary measure to look at period-to-period comparisons.
Adjusted EBIT for 2013 was $416 million compared to $293 million in 2012.
Adjusted earnings for 2013 were $221 million or $1.86 per diluted share compared to $131 million or $1.10 per diluted share in 2012.
Fourth quarter 2013 adjusted EBIT was $96 million compared to $52 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter of 2013 were $52 million or $0.44 per diluted share compared to adjusted earnings of $13 million or $0.11 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our 2013 effective tax rate on adjusted earnings was 27% which was below our previous guidance of 30%.
Our ongoing tax planning initiatives drove the improvement versus our previous expectation.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $332 million for 2013 including $9 million of accelerated depreciation related to our asset repositioning in Europe which is now substantially complete.
There was an additional $20 million of accelerated depreciation related to an incomplete insulation manufacturing facility located in Cordele Georgia which I will discuss later.
Capital expenditures for 2013 were $353 million compared with $332 million in 2012.
Capital expenditures in 2013 were in line with depreciation and amortization for the year excluding costs associated with rebuilding our New Jersey roofing facility damaged as a result of Superstorm Sandy.
Now on Slide 6 let me reconcile 2013 adjusted EBIT of $416 million to our reported EBIT of $385 million.
We have adjusted out $15 million of net gains related to the flood that occurred in October 2012 at our New Jersey roofing facility as a result of Superstorm Sandy.
As the timing of recovery does not match the timing of expenses we are adjusting the impact of this event out of our results.
The net gain in 2013 includes the impact of $58 million in insurance recoveries received partially offset by $43 million of additional repair replacement and cleanup costs taken.
As communicated in our third quarter call the facility has returned to full operating capacity and in December we reached final settlement for the claim for $83 million which is expected to fully cover all cost and the losses incurred including the final cleanup and repair expenses of about $6 million in the first half of 2014.
In addition we have adjusted out $26 million of expenses related to our previously announced restructuring actions $20 million of which is related to our 2012 actions taken primarily in Europe and $6 million of severance cost associated with the shutdown and sale of our composites facility in Hangzhou China discussed in our third quarter call.
Finally we have adjusted out $20 million of accelerated depreciation related to assets at our incomplete Cordele Georgia insulation manufacturing facility.
We began construction on this facility in 2006 and froze the project shortly thereafter due to the rapid downturn in the U.S.
housing market.
As a result of recent product and manufacturing technology developments we concluded that the engineering and construction work performed to date is no longer commercially viable.
These factors led to a write-down of this project in the fourth quarter.
We will continue to evaluate the use of this site in the future when warranted by positive economic factors and growth in market demand.
Now please turn to Slide 7 where we provide a high-level review of our adjusted EBIT performance comparing full year 2013 with 2012.
Adjusted EBIT improved $123 million.
Each of our businesses improved EBIT performance versus last year.
Our Insulation business improved by $78 million and reported its first profitable year since 2008.
Our Roofing business improved by $55 million from the higher pricing and lower manufacturing cost partially offset by lower sales volumes.
And our Composites business improved by $7 million.
General corporate expenses were $17 million higher versus the prior year primarily due to higher performance-based compensation.
With that review of the key financial highlights I ask you to turn to Slide 8 where we provide a more detailed review of our business results starting with Building Materials.
For the fourth quarter Building Materials sales were $847 million an 11% increase compared to the prior year with higher sales in both businesses.
Building Materials delivered $94 million in EBIT in the fourth quarter of 2013 up from $51 million for the same period in 2012.
For the full year 2013 Building Materials sales were $3.6 billion up 4% compared to 2012.
Building Materials delivered $426 million in EBIT in 2013 compared with $293 million in 2012.
Slide 9 provides an overview of our Roofing business.
Roofing sales for the quarter were $381 million a 9% increase compared with the same period a year ago.
EBIT in the quarter was $55 million up $13 million compared to the same period in 2012.
Roofing sales for the year were $2 billion a 2% decline compared to the prior period driven largely by lower sales volumes.
Market volume for 2013 were down in the mid-single digits due primarily to weaker storm and re-roof volumes partially offset by growth in U.S.
new residential construction.
2013 EBIT margins exceeded 2012 in every quarter.
For the year EBIT margins were 20% up from 16% in 2012 primarily driven by strong price execution during the year.
Contribution margins in the fourth quarter continued to be attractive and capable of sustaining strong annualized EBIT margins.
As we look forward to 2014 we expect the Roofing business to deliver another strong year.
We expect the asphalt shingle market to grow in 2014 primarily driven by new construction activity and possibly some growth in re-roof.
As has been the case for the last couple of years we expect our volumes to track with the overall market.
Given our shipments to date and backlog we would expect the first quarter shipments to be down as much as 10% compared to the first quarter of last year.
Now Slide 10 provides a summary of our Insulation business.
Sales for the quarter in Insulation of $466 million were up 13% for the same period a year ago on stronger volumes improved pricing and the acquisition of Thermafiber.
The business delivered EBIT of $39 million in the fourth quarter compared to $9 million in the same period 1 year ago.
This was our most profitable quarter since 2007 driven primarily by growth in volumes and strong price execution.
For the year sales in Insulation of $1.6 billion were up 12% compared to 2012.
The business delivered its first profitable year since 2008 driven by strong commercial execution an improved housing market and cost reductions.
In addition the business has delivered operating leverage of approximately 50% over the past 2 years.
As the U.S.
housing market continues to recover we expect to see further sales growth.
Expectations for 2014 U.S.
housing starts range between 1 million and 1.2 million units with the current consensus at 1.1 million U.S.
starts.
Although macros and the overall market momentum are positive we are taking a cautious approach as January shipments were off to a slow start which we believe to be primarily related to cold weather and its impact on construction activity.
Now I'll ask you to turn your attention to Slide 11 for a review of our Composites business.
Sales in our Composites business for the quarter were $461 million an 8% increase compared to the same period in 2012.
Full year sales were $1.8 billion a 1% decrease compared to the same period in 2012.
Sales for the year were up approximately 1% compared to 2012 and seen primarily in the fourth quarter.
The volume gains were more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation and unfavorable mix.
Prices continued their sequential improvement in the fourth quarter and ended flat for the full year.
EBIT for the quarter was $36 million compared to $23 million in the same period last year due primarily to improved manufacturing performance higher sales volumes and better second half selling prices.
EBIT for the full year was $98 million compared to $91 million in 2012.
In 2013 global reinforcements demand grew less than the historical average of 5% as global industrial production growth was below historical trends.
In 2014 we expect moderate global industrial production growth.
With recovery market conditions we expect to drive price improvements of $20 million to $30 million during the year.
Improved manufacturing performance and higher volumes are expected to be offset by higher expenses associated with plant rebuilds.
During 2014 we will complete rebuilds on melters that represent roughly 20% of our global capacity which is about 2x our typical rebuild activity.
Now let me turn your attention to Slide 12.
In 2013 the company continued its disciplined approach to balance sheet and capital management for the long term benefit of its investors and we strengthened our balance sheet through the execution of several key transactions including the refinancing of our $800 million senior revolving credit facility in the fourth quarter.
The continued recovery of the U.S.
housing market improved global growth and confidence in our earnings and cash flow outlook support the board's approval of Owens Corning's first quarterly dividend since 2000.
The company will make an initial quarterly payment of $0.16 per common share on April 3 2014 to shareholders on record as of March 14 2014.
During 2013 we also repurchased 1.4 million shares of the company's stock for $54 million under a previously announced share repurchase program.
Since 2008 we have purchased 18 million shares for approximately $500 million at an average price of $28.27.
This repurchase activity was accomplished during a very challenging housing market and weak global economy.
As of year-end 8.6 million shares remain available for repurchase under the company's current authorization.
The return of capital to our shareholders reflects our strong outlook for growth in earnings and free cash flow generation.
As we balance our priorities for future deployment of our free cash flow both dividends and stock repurchases will be important mechanisms to return capital to shareholders.
With that review of 2013 results I now ask you to turn to Slide 13 where I review our guidance for 2014.
Our current market outlook for continued growth in U.S.
housing starts and moderate global industrial production growth supports 2014 adjusted EBIT guidance of $500 million.
Now please turn to Slide 14 where I will provide other financial guidance for the year.
We expect corporate expenses to be in the range of $120 million to $130 million.
Capital spending will be about $400 million including approximately $65 million of spending associated with the construction of our new nonwoven facility in Gastonia North Carolina.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about $315 million.
Our $2.2 billion U.S.
tax NOL will significantly offset cash taxes for some time to come.
Our tax position has delivered another year of significant cash tax savings and cash taxes paid were $29 million.
As a result of our tax NOL and other tax planning [ph] initiatives we expect our 2014 cash tax rate to be approximately 10% to 12% of adjusted pretax earnings.
Our 2014 effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 28% to 30% of adjusted pretax earnings slightly higher than our 2013 effective tax rate of 27% as the majority of our earnings growth are expected to come from within the United States.
Finally as a reminder we expect to close on a couple of nonrecurring items in the first half of 2014 that we intend to adjust out of our operating results.
As previously discussed we anticipate incurring an additional $6 million in repair and remediation cost associated with the rebuild of our New Jersey roofing facility which was damaged by Superstorm Sandy.
We also expect to close on the sale of our Hangzhou China manufacturing facility in the first half of 2014.
This sale is expected to result in a gain of $30 million to $40 million.
Thank you and I'll now hand the call back to Mike.
Mike? Thank you Michael.
As I noted at the outset of today's call 2013 was a good year for Owens Corning.
We grew adjusted earnings per share by nearly 70% and improved adjusted EBIT by $123 million.
All of our businesses increased EBIT versus 2012 including an improvement in both the third and fourth quarters.
Our businesses are executing on the right strategies and we're seeing continuing improvement in our key markets.
For 2014 our current outlook for a continued recovery of the U.S.
housing market as well as improved global growth supports guidance of $500 million in adjusted EBIT.
In addition our board's decision to establish a quarterly dividend is a clear response to our improvement in 2013 and an indicator of the confidence we have in our outlook for 2014 and beyond.
With that I'll turn the call over to Thierry to lead us in the question-and-answer session.
Thierry? Thank you Mike.
Rachel we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Garik Shmois with Longbow Research.
Just have a question on the 2014 guidance.
Just wondering if you could walk us through the thought process in setting the $500 million EBIT target and thinking about it in the context of -- you delivered about $123 million of growth in 2013.
It seems like you've got good price and volume momentum across all of your businesses when looking out to the balance of 2014.
I'm just wondering why you set the guidance at about an $85 million EBIT growth figure relative to 2013 which was a stronger year against more challenging conditions.
Thanks Garik.
Happy to address your question.
We kind of walked you through in each of the 3 businesses what we're looking for in 2014.
We said that we think Roofing will have another great year.
That business is performing at a very high level for the last 4 or 5 years.
We think Insulation will continue to show strong improvement really tracking the rate of improvement in residential new construction in the U.S.
I think we're confident we'll see growth in new construction this year.
I think the rate of growth at this moment is a little bit of an open question.
There's been a little bit of soft spot I think in the new construction market.
Some of it may be weather.
Some of it may be interest rates.
I think generally there is still strong optimism in the industry but the general consensus around starts this year has been fairly broad.
Michael characterized it as 1 million to 1.2 million.
So we're confident in growth in Insulation.
I think we're looking at a fairly broad range and saying how much impact that will have on our Insulation business is something that we'll learn through the year.
And then in Composites I think we expressed a lot of confidence in the call that this will be another year of improvement.
And in fact improvement in a very important way which is we expect to see a nice uptick in pricing performance in that business.
We did say that we've got about 20% of our capacity being rebuilt this year.
The average melter lasts about 10 years.
So what's typical for us is about 10% of our capacity.
So we have a lot of very low-cost capacity that's going to be offline for a period of time this year which will create some cost in that business which will then give us a little bit of tailwind into 2015.
I think the biggest difference if you compare 2013 going into 2014 versus 2012 going into 2013 is we did have a bit of a down year in 2012 in Roofing and we expected to see a significant snapback in that business.
And in fact we did generate 20% operating margin.
We did generate improved operating margin in all 4 quarters.
I think we expect another great year in Roofing.
I'm not sure that we expect that we're going to snap back off of 2013 which was already operating at a very high level.
Okay.
And then I guess just a follow-up on Composites.
Can you provide a little bit more detail on the revenue growth that you saw in the fourth quarter? Where what geographies outperformed and maybe what price versus volume looked like? Yes the fourth quarter volume growth in Composites was I think a real bright spot for the business both the fact we got price in the fourth quarter and saw good volumes I think gave us confidence as we look into 2014.
I wouldn't say there was as much of a geographic story.
The market overall was growing.
I think we grew generally with the market in glass reinforcement on a geographic basis.
There were a couple of end markets that were a bit stronger.
One end market was the wind market in North America.
And that's more on a comp basis.
It was very very weak in the second half of 2012.
The renewable tax credit had not been renewed at the end of 2012.
The supply chain really dried up.
It took most of the first half of 2013 for us to see some rebuilding of that supply chain.
And really at the end of last year we started to see decent volumes in wind which we think will carry over into 2014.
The second market which has been growing fairly consistently is the nonwovens market particularly in North America.
That's almost kind of fiberglass paper.
A lot of it goes into construction markets.
That's the technology that we're investing in in North Carolina.
So we saw good growth through the second half of the year which was really construction-related in North America.
And as that market grows that will be the market that will support our investment in North Carolina in a new nonwovens facility.
So more of those 2 end-use markets than any big geographic story.
Your next question is from the line of Mike Wood with Macquarie.
This is Adam in for Mike.
Just a quick question on Roofing volumes in 4Q.
I mean would you say if you compare your volumes versus the market would you say you outgrew the market or you're in line? And did you see any kind of snapback given sort of the underperformance you saw in 3Q because of geography? Yes we went into a fair amount of detail in the third quarter kind of talking about what we thought about our position in the market and the profile of the growth of the market in the third quarter which really didn't advantage us.
I think in the fourth quarter we did see a market that was more consistent with what we've seen historically and generally consistent with what we said in the third quarter which is we think these things kind of even out over time and that sometimes you get some results in a quarter that then catch up in the next quarter.
So we probably outgrew the market a bit in the fourth quarter.
We think we tracked the market in the second half.
So if you take the third quarter and the fourth quarter together we think we're about right on the market.
We had said we were right on the market in the first half.
And we said we were right on the market for the full year.
So I think that aberration or that little pause that we had in the third quarter which we tried to identify some drivers of that in the -- our last call mostly corrected itself in the fourth quarter.
And we were satisfied that our volumes were in line with where we had expected them to be based on market conditions.
Your next question is from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Incrementals in your Insulation business was quite strong in Q4 and the full year.
Is that 50% run rate still sustainable going to 2014? Yes so I think each call I get the opportunity to make sure that we talk about the guidance we've given on operating leverage.
We've said really at the beginning of the housing recovery which goes back to kind of the beginning of 2012 when housing kind of bottomed in '11 that we thought over a 3-year period of time the business would average about 50% operating leverage.
Over any extended period of time since we gave that guidance if you'd take any 2 3 or 4 quarter period we've been pretty much in line with that.
And we've also said there are going to be some quarters based on either when we're building inventories or depleting inventories or turning on some capacity or the timing of price increases where we may lead or lag that indicator.
So I think the conclusion I'd ask you to draw from the fourth quarter is that happened to be one of those quarters where we led that indicator.
I think it's reasonable to think there may be some other quarters where we've lagged that indicator.
But in total we'd expect over a 2 or 3-year period of time that 50% operating leverage is still good guidance for the business.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then switching gears on Roofing.
You provided some color on the demand profile.
Can you give us some color on how you're thinking about price? Obviously there's a few price increase across the supply chain.
There's some capacity coming on later this year.
So just help us have -- get a better sense on pricing how you're thinking about it? Yes if you look back at the business over the course of the last 4 or 5 years really with the exception of the first quarter of 2012 we've had very stable and strong margin performance in the business.
And the 1 year where we had some challenges from a pricing point of view where we got kind of on the wrong side of cost inflation versus price was the first quarter 2012 where we had some very aggressive winter buy incentives in the market; that encouraged our customers to buy a lot of product from us in the first quarter.
We actually had decent pricing performance through the remainder of that year but were never able to recover from the amount of volume we shipped earlier in the year.
So we're very focused in Roofing in making sure that we start the year well.
So we think we have pretty good visibility to the first quarter of this year in terms of where the winter offer that we made is and how that's going to affect price and volume.
Our winter offer this year is pretty much in line with where we were last year.
So we feel comfortable that we've started the year with the business on a solid basis.
And that at least for now we feel comfortable that our pricing is stable in the marketplace relative to last year.
Michael did say in his comments we're expecting to see less volume in the first quarter at those numbers.
So partly probably as a result of weather maybe as a result of expectations of our customers that last year buying a lot of product in the first quarter maybe didn't help them in terms of their facing the market and then what happens in terms of fiscal years and year-ends and some other things that cause customers to need to buy product at different times in the year.
Our current estimate is that we'll see less volume in the first quarter than normal -- or than what we saw last year and then actually we'll return back to a bit more of a normal profile with maybe not a first quarter that's quite as big.
Overall we'd say that's probably a good thing for the business.
We would expect that that volume will get caught up through the year and that generally our margin rates are as good or better in the second and third quarter so we can pick any of that volume up through the mid-year.
I think that net-net helps us.
Your next question is from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you I guess first about the Insulation.
One of the things that we saw last quarter third quarter was that you sometimes have costs associated with opening up a new line or adding shifts and things like that.
I was curious as to whether you had anything like that in the Insulation business this quarter.
And to the degree that you will see those kind of quarterly gyrations affect your quarterly results I was curious if you could give us any visibility into what you're anticipating next year if you can foresee any intended costs like that in Insulation business that we should think about as we try to model this thing out quarter-to-quarter.
Yes I'm fearful I'm not going to be much help to you in terms of helping you model the business quarter-to-quarter because we'd look at it and obviously our internal planning process is very detailed around when we bring capacity on the line and what that will do in terms of absorption and other costs.
That's also a dynamic problem for us.
So as we look at it each quarter we assess what happened to the marketplace where we think lagged starts are and we adjust all of that timing.
So our sense would be getting more detailed in this area would likely only serve to confuse investors rather than try to make the business more understandable.
So I would say that generally we have confidence in our ability to forecast annual volumes in that business.
We have reasonable confidence in our ability to break that out by quarters.
And then we have an operating plan that supports the volume and production required to service that demand but we're constantly adjusting it.
So those costs could move around a lot and I don't think we would clarify things by giving you further guidance on that.
Research Division</strong> Out the rearview mirror anything in 4Q that you can comment on? I wouldn't say anything of note.
Obviously the key issue for us typically at the end of the year is decisions about how much inventory we want to be holding at the end of the year based on our production plan for the following year.
So we'll be looking all the way through to the second half of 2014 in making decisions on how much capacity we want to run in the fourth quarter of 2013.
So we would have some effects at our outlook based on how we would have managed the business late in the year but I think that's all consistent with our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was curious -- next question relates to Composites.
I was curious if you could talk about some of the success you've had there.
You talked about improved pricing and improved pricing outlook.
I think last time I was with you guys in Europe you talked about the fact that the European pricing environment had seemed to be ameliorating and the Asian pricing environment had gotten better before that.
So I was curious if you could comment on sort of your success in renegotiating your annual contract that again typically have at the end of the year how that went in your view and if you could sort of talk about the generalized environment for pricing in Europe that you're seeing recently.
Okay.
I think we've given a fairly bullish message on pricing for Composites in today's call.
So we have guided to $20 million to $30 million of price improvement in 2014.
If you go back and look at last year one of the big challenges we had in 2013 is we lost price early in the year which I think was a little bit unexpected.
We had expected price to be relatively flat in the first half with maybe some improvement in the second.
In fact we had a little bit weaker pricing in the first half.
We saw the improvement in the second half but only got back to kind of our starting point.
So a little bit of a V-shaped price curve in 2013 which yielded really no net pricing for the full year but did yield price improvement in the second half.
Obviously from a carryover point of view when you have V-shaped pricing you're going to end the year with a better price than your average price for the full year.
So you're going to carry over some price into the following year.
So we started the year in that environment.
The year-end price negotiations I think met our expectations and are consistent with the guidance we gave today.
If I were to characterize it by region I would say Europe is maybe a little bit tougher.
The euro has continued to be relatively strong.
So on a translation basis it's a decent market for exporters.
And we do see some Chinese product from our Chinese competitors coming into the European market.
It also tends to be the highest cost capacity in the world for us and our competitors and so most of the European capacity is stranded in Europe.
If it can't find a market in Europe it really can't find a market globally.
So with weakness in volumes in Europe you tend to find that all the Chinese -- all the European producers are searching for European-based demand in order to try to load their capacity.
And we didn't see quite strong enough demand in Europe to really get the European capacity fully loaded and so we've seen that to be a little bit more of a competitive market than maybe what we've seen in Americas or I think a little bit optimistically China.
So early in the year we have gotten news of some price announcements from some of our competitors in China.
Actually early in the year before Chinese New Year which is pretty unusual.
Typically if we see pricing action in China it tends to be after the Chinese New Year which is a more natural kind of timing or cycle for the business over there.
So our sense is that maybe some of the credit issues in China is now starting to come down to the industrial level where there's more pressure on industrial companies to start earning returns on capital start focusing more on profitability than growth.
That has been our theory for a number of years.
Obviously it's going to take time to see whether or not that theory will come true but our sense is we're seeing a competitive environment in China that's maybe a little bit more focused on profitability than growth right now which would help pricing in China.
Not such a material effect for us because you know that we don't have a significant amount of our volume in China.
But obviously if the Chinese market were to get a little bit more profitable I think it might reduce the incentives for some of the Chinese manufacturers to need to export to try to load their assets which would help us in Europe and help us in the U.S.
So in total I would say the market environment is evolving consistent with what we talked about at our Investor Day where we laid out and said we have seen over the last 5 or 6 years a couple of times where market conditions were right that we could get as much as $100 million of pricing over a 2-year period.
I think if we can get $20 million or $30 million this year with carryover that at least gets us in the range of maybe believing we're in one of those kinds of price cycles for ourselves in the 2014-2015 timeframe.
Your next question is from the line of Jack Kasprzak with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> On the Insulation business can you talk about the contribution of price and volume to the sales gain you had there in the fourth quarter? Well we have been getting a lot of positive progress on price in the Insulation business as you would expect.
Generally where we've been seeing a lot of growth has been in the residential new construction market where we're growing with housing starts.
I think we've talked on prior calls that the reportable business for Insulation that we report in the Building Materials segment was profitable in 2013 had been having profitable quarters up until 2013 but that on balance the new residential piece of it was not making money.
And that in fact as we were seeing volume growth in new residential most of the operating leverage there was coming from absorption and positive pricing and very little of it was actually coming from volume.
I would say that's still largely true as I look at 2013.
Manufacturing margins or gross margins are still very low in the fastest-growing segment of that business which is the new construction side.
As we head into 2014 with more positive pricing this year I think volume will begin to contribute more in terms of the impact.
But for last year I would say most of the impact in terms of overall EBIT improvement in the business was coming from an improved price environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sticking with Insulation on the subject of pricing are there incremental or new price increases out in Insulation for 2014 or is the comment on positive pricing just the carryover effect from '13? We announced and have executed against a November price increase so late in 2013.
So really in terms of the impact that price increase would have on the business I think we would feel most of that in 2014.
So while it was announced and executed in the prior year from a carryover point of view there's very little carry from last year and most of the net benefit of that will happen in 2014.
So we would look at that in terms of our own financial outlook as being a 2014 event.
In that price increase I believe we said that we would not announce another price increase until sometime in the late spring.
So we have not made any additional disclosures on our expected pricing actions for the remainder of the year.
But in a growing market environment and given our profitability which is well below historical levels we're going to continue to look at prices and lever to try to improve the performance of the business.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So the Pink Panther delivered.
I wonder if you could -- just going back to Insulation given the different margin trends that we have within the international the U.S.
commercial and obviously the residential fiberglass business the sequential change in margins that we had -- you talked about how you guys do internal and don't want to describe that because it would create noise understood.
Did it hit your expectations? And then if so -- or if you'd just let us know how your forecasting is.
And then was it really regional or product mix that caused the sequential lift in margins? I'm just trying to see how -- if we get that volatility realizing you're going to stick with the 50% incremental annualized.
Yes I guess when you look at it relative to our expectations I think the business has definitely been delivering against our expectations.
Maybe the area where we've been hopeful which is a market condition not really a business condition where we've been hopeful to maybe see a little bit more tailwind would be the mix of single-family and multi-family and some of the dynamics in the housing market that might have created a little bit more acceleration in end market demand.
So the demographics of housing recovery is still pretty skewed towards multi-family which doesn't consume quite as much insulation as what we would see in single-family starts.
Counteracting that we had a really good story around building codes where the building codes that are being adopted today are requiring more insulation per square foot of construction.
I think we expected maybe the building codes to be a bit more accretive to our demand than it's been because we haven't really gotten great demographic in terms of what's being built.
As we get to a bigger housing market we don't think multi-family stays at this high a percentage of the overall mix.
So on a relative basis the next increments of growth over the next 2 or 3 years should be a little bit richer to us in terms of the yield out for demand.
But based on the macros we track where we think pricing should be and how the business has progressed over the last 3 years we're right on track with all the things we said when we were at the bottom of the cycle and feel really good about the business' ability to return to very high levels of performance.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I clearly got that.
I guess now in pricing in the Composites.
You talked about in the guidance of $20 million to $30 million.
If that's happening within a 2% or 3% industrial demand environment you're going to be looking at about 2-points of price call it 2 or 3 points of unit growth.
But that's really what you said EBIT growth would be more in that $20 million to $30 million range or primarily that.
So can you talk about why and how your plant closures if that's different I assume you had a fairly mature furnace base that was always kind of cycling but are there any incremental EBIT headwinds that we're experiencing in '14 that you might want to call out given the distinct $20 million to $30 million incremental EBIT growth that you did talk about? Yes Ken I think you called out the key one that we wanted to make sure all of our analysts were well aware of which is the rebuild profile.
So we do have a -- we have a very good story around price we think.
We actually have a good story around volume.
We've got a good story around regional mix.
So there's a lot of good things going on in the market and market conditions.
The challenge we have this year is this rebuild issue.
Our melters we've got a fleet of melters globally.
On average they last about 10 years.
So in any given year we tend to rebuild about 10% of our capacity.
Our rebuilds can be downtime anywhere from 30 to 60 days depending on the extent of the rebuild.
Because of the economic crisis and kind of when we turned some melters off in order to take some inventory reductions and when we extended the lives of some melters because of some things we had we ended up with some really low-cost very good melters all needing to be rebuilt in 2014.
Given that we think we're headed into a little bit better cycle for Composites with higher levels of utilization better pricing and better profitability and better returns we wanted to go ahead and get that work done make sure that we've got all of our low-cost melters in position to service the market as we its continuing market growth.
And that's really the big headwind this year which is offsetting a lot of the good news that we would have expected to be able to report from volume and manufacturing performance.
I think as we head into 2015 we would hope if this year plays out right that we would then have next year with a tailwind where we comp positively on rebuilds a tailwind where we get volumes and also get price and we start to see an acceleration in the rate of improvement in Composites.
Research Division</strong> So you said it was $40 million headwind.
I mean how are you thinking about that the headwind from the rebuild from the low-cost plants that we're experiencing in '14 vis–à–vis what the run rate will be in '15 from a cost basis? Yes we have not disclosed on that Ken.
We've only said that it's about equal to and expect it to be offset by improved manufacturing performance and a little bit better volume.
Research Division</strong> Which would normally be about 30% incrementals on the volume.
Therefore that's the headwind.
30% on the volume incrementals is that what you're saying? Yes I don't think I may be able to help you on that.
Your next question is from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Mike just to delve a little bit further on this EBIT guidance.
If I back out the Composite contribution that's [ph] about $60 million.
And if I think about that is the split better on Insulation more contribution there than Roofing? And is it more volume versus price? Yes so I mean without really breaking it down and guiding by business but I think we've been pretty explicit on Composites because we wanted to make sure that we didn't have the market get ahead of us in terms of how much progress we thought we would make in 2014.
It's reasonable to conclude that from a guidance point of view the rest of the improvement is going to come from Building Materials.
We said that we think the roofing market should be up a little bit this year.
So new construction has been driving about 2.5% or 3% growth in volume in the roofing market.
Last year that 2.5% or 3% growth in new construction was more than offset by a declining reroof market and a declining weather-related or storm-related market.
Storms were pretty weak in 2013 so we would expect that we would comp flat or maybe slightly positive on storms.
Obviously we can't forecast that but they're low enough in 2013.
We wouldn't expect we've got a lot of downside risk related to storms.
We also think re-roof demand in 2013 was affected by very high levels of storm activity in 2011 and 2012 which was causing some natural re-roof demand to get pulled forward due to storms.
We think that effect will start to dissipate a little bit in 2014.
So Michael commented I commented both of us would hope to see re-roof demand at least flat in 2014 maybe optimistically slightly up.
So it's not hard to get to low-single digits or mid-single digits growth in roofing.
And if we could get some of that I think that would help top line in Roofing.
Obviously with very good margins if we have top line improvement in Roofing that's going to help bottom line.
But it's very hard for us at this early in the year to know where we think the overall market opportunity in Roofing would be.
But to the extent we have improvement in Roofing I think it will be mostly volume-related.
I think to the extent you see improvement in Insulation it's going to look a lot like the last 2 or 3 years which is it's going to be a combination of operating leverage volumes and price that gets us to the operating leverage guidance we've given.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up you talked about the channel and the inventory both in building products and your visibility on production.
But how would you characterize maybe since the Investor Day and maybe now your plan on production in terms of scheduling and is the inventory -- is the channel inventory pretty full or is it lean? Al which business are you -- is that comprising? Research Division</strong> When I was thinking I said Building Materials but you can pick whether that's Insulation or Roofing.
I mean you talked earlier about a lot of reduction in the volumes on Insulation that helped drive some of that leverage and I'm just -- given that it is a high throughput business I'm just trying to think about how you're thinking about production efforts for '14.
Okay.
I'll let Michael take that one.
Michael? I think 2 things to kind of keep in mind.
So from a supply chain perspective the 2 Building Material businesses operate pretty differently.
So the supply chain within Insulation is actually relatively short.
So days maybe weeks because our customers typically stock very little volume versus Roofing where the supply chain actually tends to be quite lengthy where distribution at times will stock up quite heavily and have weeks if not months of inventory in their warehouses and in their yards.
As we look forward and look at kind of both those businesses I don't think there's an inventory problem that we have in Insulation right now.
I think things are broadly balanced.
Obviously you heard us say that kind of out-the-door sales in January for us were a bit slow.
So we're probably building a little bit of inventory personally as we get ready to service spring demand.
And in Roofing our perspective is that things are probably broadly in balance.
Mike I'm not sure if you want to add anything further.
No I think that's right.
I think there's going to be some timing things earlier in the year which we believe will come back later in the year.
So could affect the quarter but most of the conversations today that you hear about weather we don't think really has a big impact on how we view 2014.
Your final question is from the line of Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I guess Mike the first question was back on Roofing and the start to the year.
If for whatever reason whether it be weather or some other reason that shipments don't pick up through the rest of the first quarter do you think it's more likely that the industry would extend the pre-buy period or that you would replenish inventory at higher prices as you move into the second quarter? Yes well I mean I certainly can't speculate on what the industry would do.
I can talk about how we see it from our perspective.
We're obviously in close contact with our customers in terms of their expectations of our ability to ship them in the first quarter.
And our view today is for the most part what our customers would like to take in in the first quarter and what we are able to ship under the buy program that we put in place is pretty well balanced and that we should be able to meet our customers' expectations.
We have announced -- Owens Corning has announced a price increase for April 15.
So as you come out of the first quarter I guess there would be a short period of time where there would be an absence of buys in the market where price -- where there had not yet been a price increase and then you'd have a spring price increase where prices would begin to go up at least that would be our expectation.
So as we look at it the real question would come in if our customers wanted to buy a lot more product than we were able to supply them in the first quarter that might put pressure on our need to either extend the season or try to find a way to get them more product.
But at this point we feel like we're going to be able to meet what the customers are asking us for.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then separately how do you think about raw material inflation across the businesses in '14 versus '13? Raw material inflation right now is pretty tame I guess I would say.
We've obviously seen some natural gas inflation but we think we've got that well under control.
That used to be a big theme in our discussions of our business back when gas was kind of $12 and $13 a decatherm.
Today it's at low enough levels that even if you see big percentage changes in natural gas that's pretty manageable and a lot of that for us is contracted.
That would be a source of concern if we were to continue to see gas prices go up even more and be persistent at higher levels.
We're not expecting that.
We think a lot of that is very cold-weather related and as we get into the spring there will be ample supply of natural gas.
We see some chemicals going up but we also see some opportunities to offset inflation.
So in general we think we've got our arms around inflation pretty well and don't see anything running away from us.
LLC</strong> So just generally speaking cost inflation that was evident in '13 becomes less of a headwind in '14? Yes I mean obviously the big variable that we can't forecast particularly well is what happens with asphalt cost.
We would expect as we get into the spring that we're going to see an uptick in asphalt cost.
Any of us who are living in places that are under 24 inches of snow know that every time the snow melts you find bigger and bigger potholes.
So at least in our part of the country there is a lot of road repair that's going to need to get done.
I would expect that's true in a lot of the country and that there's going to have to be money that's allocated towards road repair which will create asphalt demand which will create asphalt inflation for us.
We think that's manageable through pricing and margin management but I would expect that that's going to be another theme for us to talk about as the year goes by which is how much road repair we need to see.
And that does conclude today's Q&amp;A session.
I will turn the call back over to Mr.
Denis.
Very good.
Well thank you everyone for joining us for today's call.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Mike Thaman for a few closing remarks.
Okay thank you Thierry.
Let me start by saying that we're very proud of the year that we produced in 2013.
We set out at the beginning of the year to see improvement in all of our businesses.
We finish strong and we're able to do that in the fourth quarter.
And in fact we did it in the third quarter.
So now for 2 consecutive quarters we have seen improvement across all 3 of our businesses.
We did say that we expect 2014 to be another strong year for the company.
We expect to see another great year out of Roofing continued improvement in Insulation and progress in our Composites business all building towards continued strong growth for our company.
I came in to today's call prepared to talk a lot about the dividend in the Q&amp;A.
And I didn't get any questions so I'll take my time now to again reinforce how excited we are to implement a dividend.
This is a company that in its history had always been a dividend-paying industrial company.
That's how we think about ourselves.
We know that we've got great cash-generating capability.
We've maintained a good investment-grade balance sheet.
I think we've managed capital return to shareholders effectively when we went through a period here with some weak stock price.
And Michael mentioned in his comments that we had bought back a number of shares almost 18 million shares at an average price in the high $20s.
We are expecting that as we go through what should be a prolonged and sustained recovery for housing and the impact that that will have on our overall portfolio that we had room in our balance sheet strategy to also put a recurring quarterly dividend in.
And we're doing that now.
And we're really excited to be able to do that for our shareholders.
And I think that's a source of another opportunity for the company to create value for shareholders which is what we'd like to do.
So we look forward to a great 2014.
Look forward to talking to you again on our next quarter call and as always appreciate your support of our company.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call and you may now disconnect.