Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to now introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our first quarter 2011 earnings call.
We hope everyone's had a chance to review our earnings release.
We’ve posted to our website both the press release and a presentation covering the information that we'll present this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and the other information that's included on Page 1 of our investor presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and actual events or results may differ materially.
I'd also like to remind you that during the course of this earnings call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find a reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation accompanying this call.
We're going to begin the call with some brief remarks from John Wren.
Following John's remarks we'll review our financial performance for the quarter and then both John and I will be happy to take questions.
Thank you Randy.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased with our operating results for the first quarter.
These results build on the progress we made during 2010 and also show the strengthening of our business over the last year.
This morning in particular I want to highlight several areas.
First organic growth.
Organic growth in the quarter was up 5.2% over the same period in 2010.
This represents the fifth consecutive quarter of positive growth and the last quarter where we face comparisons to the Chrysler business.
Excluding its effect organic growth would have been 6.8%.
Second we completed the Clemenger acquisition in early February.
This is one of a series of strategic acquisitions in markets such as Columbia Russia India and China that will help us deepen and expand our presence in Asia and developing markets.
In addition our acquisitions of Communispace Voce and Fanscape help us to expand our digital capabilities in consumer insights analytics and social media.
Each of these acquisitions meets the test of strategic fit and price and each represents an investment in what we believe are some of the best companies in their respective disciplines and markets.
As many of you know in March we announced that we have made significant progress in digital through new strategic partnerships with Microsoft Yahoo! and AOL.
This come on the heels of our Google partnership announced in 2010.
Each of these partnerships is designed to leverage our skills in areas of brand building storytelling and creative with our partner's technological skills platforms and reach.
Our goal with each of these partnerships is to continue to build the strongest competencies for our agencies and deliver innovative and effective tools and ideas to our clients worldwide.
Lastly we continue to make progress towards our goal of returning margins to 2007 levels by 2012.
Late last year we embarked on a review of all of our businesses with the goal of improving margins while also investing in our best growth opportunities.
We also challenged each of our companies to identify opportunities to improve margins while continuing to drive growth.
I'm happy to report that we made substantial progress disposing and of reorganizing non-strategic and underperforming businesses in our portfolio.
Total annual revenue for businesses disposed of to date is approximately $120 million.
During the quarter we did incur charges affecting the P&amp;L as a result of these repositioning activities.
We also recognized the gain in connection with the completion of our acquisition of a majority interest in Clemenger.
Randy will walk you through these items and their implications on the quarter in more detail during his part of the presentation.
Although we are not finished with our review of all the companies in our portfolio we do not expect to incur significant charges for the remainder of the year.
Taken together these actions demonstrate a focus on executing our core strategies of building our presence in key markets outside the United States improving our digital competencies and driving margin improvement without hampering growth.
Turning to an analysis of revenue by region.
In the U.S.
we continue to see strong organic growth of 4.1% versus the first quarter of last year and 6.8% excluding Chrysler.
As I noted in February we expect growth for the year to return to more historic levels as we face more difficult year-over-year comps.
With that said though we expect to see solid growth in the U.S.
market as employment and business fundamentals continue to improve.
In Europe organic growth was 2.1%.
We saw a strong growth in both the U.K.
and France trends we believe will continue.
Outside the Eurozone we also saw solid positive growth.
In the Middle East the recent political turmoil did not have a significant impact on our revenue.
In Asia and South America our investments continue to generate significant positive returns with double-digit growth in each of the regions.
The tragic events in Japan contributed to a negative performance in that market for the quarter.
However based upon what we know today we do not see a significant impact to our operations for the remainder of 2011.
Our thoughts are with the people of Japan and the families of our clients and staff who were affected.
I want to thank our agencies and employees around the world for their numerous efforts to support the victims of the earthquake and the tsunami.
Lastly I want to note that as part of our continuing efforts to diversify our geographic revenue mix non-U.S.
revenues have increased to 47.6% from 45.5% in the year-ago quarter even while U.S.
revenues continue to grow significantly.
Our revenues from markets other than the U.S.
U.K.
and Euro now represent over 20% of our revenue for the first time in our history.
Our growth is also coming from the spectrum of industries we serve.
Revenues are up in every significant industry category including pharma and healthcare financial services food and beverage and consumer products.
All these areas performed exceptionally well.
Turning to our balance sheet and cash flow.
We continue to utilize our free cash flow and cash on hand for acquisition dividends and share repurchases.
In addition to the acquisitions we completed we repurchased 6.8 million shares and increased our quarterly dividend by 25% during the quarter.
Finally overall we are pleased with the continued performance of our business.
As we talk with our clients we see significant opportunities to help them execute their plans for growth.
As we talk to our agencies we see an organization that is working aggressively to anticipate trends and develop innovative ideas for our clients.
As we look forward for ways to deploy our capital we continue to see reasonably priced companies in the market or we specialize skills that we believe will continue to further our overall growth strategies.
Lastly but certainly not least we remain vigilant in seeking to optimize our portfolio to ensure that when we invest we are doing so in companies that are well positioned for profitable growth.
I will now turn the call back to Randy and he'll take us through the quarter in detail.
Thank you John.
In summary the first quarter was a solid and busy start to the year.
The underlying fundamentals of our business have continued to improve and our new business efforts have been very successful.
As a result we continue to experience positive organic growth across each of our business disciplines and across all of the industry segments that we serve.
In addition we successfully closed several acquisitions in the quarter that we're very excited about.
Before I discuss the results for the quarter I want to point out that there are a couple of items included in the reported figures that we need to break out so that the numbers are more comparable against the prior period.
As we discussed in the Q4 earnings call as a result of our acquisition of a controlling interest in our long-term affiliate the Clemenger Group which is the leading marketing communications group in Australia and New Zealand in accordance with GAAP we recorded a gain resulting from the remeasurement of the carrying value of our equity interest to fair value.
In addition we continue to implement the strategic review process that we initiated last year.
Our agencies were very busy in the quarter taking a number of actions including disposing of several businesses consolidating several of our smaller operations as well as certain businesses consolidating several of their locations and taking numerous actions to further increase operating efficiencies.
As a result of these repositioning actions we incurred a cost in the quarter of $131.3 million.
There were also a number of disruptive and tragic events that occurred in the quarter that many of our agency personnel and their families had to work through including the disaster in Japan; the earthquake in Christchurch New Zealand; the floods in Brisbane Australia; and the political unrest and turmoil in the Middle East.
I commend our agencies in those affected regions for managing what are extremely difficult situations with exceptional skill.
Now turning to our financial performance.
As I said it was a very solid quarter and largely in line with our expectations.
Year-over-year revenue grew 7.9% bringing revenue for the quarter to $3.15 billion.
Reported EBITDA increased 11.6% to $343 million and our resulting EBITDA margin was 10.9% up about 40 basis points from last year.
As I mentioned there were several items in the quarter that impacted our reported earnings.
First the cost associated with the repositioning actions that were executed in the quarter totaled approximately $131.3 million and second the remeasurement gain associated with our acquisition of a controlling interest in Clemenger of $123.4 million.
The net effect of these two items reduced EBITDA by $7.9 million or about 25 basis points.
Our reported operating income or EBIT increased 10.7% to $322 million for a year-over-year margin improvement of about 20 basis points.
Adjusting for the repositioning costs and the remeasurement gain our EBIT margin was 10.5% off about 50 basis points.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $32.1 million up $8 million from Q1 last year and essentially flat from the fourth quarter.
The increase versus the first quarter of 2010 was primarily reflective of interest on the $1 billion of 10-year senior notes issued in August of 2010 partially offset by the positive effects for interest rate swaps on our 2016 senior notes and increased interest income.
From the tax front our reported tax rate for the quarter was 25.5%.
The reduction in the rate is primarily the result of minimal tax expense associated with the Clemenger remeasurement gain offset by a lower-than-average tax benefits on certain of the repositioning charges and a $9 million tax charge associated with closing various audit issues for the years 2005 '06 and '07.
Going forward as we outlined at the end of last year we expect our operating tax rate to be in the 34.2% to 34.4% range.
Net income for the quarter increased 23.6% to $201.9 million and diluted earnings per share in the quarter increased 32.7% to $0.69 per share.
The diluted share count for the quarter was 289 million shares down about 7% from the same period last year.
Before we review our financial performance we added a slide on Page 3 that lays out where the remeasurement gain and the repositioning charges are reflected in our P&amp;L.
The repositioning expenses primarily included severance real estate and other charges related to underperforming businesses that were disposed of as well as our efforts to correct staffing imbalances and make operating improvements in certain underperforming businesses that we believe are strategically important.
We also undertook the consolidation of certain back-office operations and infrastructure for a number of our smaller businesses.
The severance charges which will be cash totaled approximately $92.8 million and were included in salary and service expense.
Additional primarily non-cash charges related to asset and goodwill write-offs real estate charges net of gains on dispositions totaled $38.5 million were included in office and general expenses.
The remeasurement gain of $123.4 million is included as a reduction in office and general expenses.
While the bulk of our actions associated with our strategic review activities were completed in the first quarter we do anticipate several additional dispositions and some additional repositioning expenses later this year.
The exact timing is difficult to predict with certainty but our goal is to complete these actions in the second quarter.
Turning to Page 4 we take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX.
On a year-over-year basis the dollar weakened versus most of our major currencies with the exception of the euro.
The net result was a positive FX impact for the quarter of $37 million or about 1.3%.
Looking ahead if rates stay where they are currently we expect FX to be positive around 4% in the second quarter and then flatten out in the second half of the year.
We expect the full year impact to be positive only about 2%.
Revenue growth from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $42 million in the quarter or about 1.4%.
A few of the larger transactions were Clemenger and Communispace this quarter and DDB Columbia and OMG Middle East at the end of last year.
As I mentioned before we do expect to complete a couple of additional dispositions before year end.
And in all likelihood we will also close at least a few more acquisitions.
With regard to organic growth we had a very solid quarter.
We continued to see year-over-year growth across every industry sector that we serve.
Our new business efforts have been strong and we continue to see economic recovery although slow in most of the markets that we operate.
As a result organic revenue growth was 5.2% or $152 million.
Fortunately this was the last quarter before we cycle on the Chrysler loss.
Excluding Chrysler which was just over $47 million in revenue in Q1 of 2010 organic growth was 6.8%.
A couple of other items in the quarter worth mentioning.
We did experience lost revenue in the quarter as a result of the political turmoil in the Middle East.
As a result growth in the region slowed from strong double digits to single digits.
The Middle East region accounts for about 1% of our revenue.
Also as a result of the tragic events that occurred in Japan we experienced some disruption at the end of the quarter and expect it to continue for the next couple of quarters.
Japan accounts for about 1.5% of our revenue.
Although it has not yet impacted us the issues in Japan may also affect spending by Japanese clients outside of Japan over the balance of the year.
Turning to our mix of business brand advertising accounted for 45% of our revenue and marketing services 55%.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising had 4.2% organic growth and marketing services was up 6.1%.
However with brand advertising we have to keep in mind the Chrysler loss.
Excluding Chrysler brand advertising had organic growth of about 7%.
Within the marketing services category CRM had 7.1% organic growth.
Within this sector direct and field marketing branding research and design all had outstanding performances.
Our Events business was flat year-over-year which we actually believe was quite strong given in Q1 last year we had the Winter Olympics.
Public Relations had organic growth of 1.9% and Specialty Communications was up 6.6%.
On Slide 6 our geographic mix of business in the quarter was 52% U.S.
and 48% international.
In the United States revenue increased $60 million or 3.8%.
Acquisitions net of dispositions reduced revenue by about $5 million or 0.3% and organic growth was 4.1% or about $65 million.
Again the Chrysler loss had a disproportionate impact on the U.S.
numbers given it was almost entirely a U.S.
account.
Excluding Chrysler the U.S.
had organic growth of 6.8%.
International revenue increased $171.6 million or about 12.9%.
FX increased revenue by $37 million or 2.8%.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $47 million and organic growth was 6.6% or about $87 million.
Internationally in Asia we had strong performances in China Singapore Australia and South Korea.
And as I said before Japan was negative.
In Europe we had good performances in the U.K.
France Russia Poland and Spain.
However in the other so-called PIIG countries Portugal Ireland Italy and Greece they continued to be negative although less negative than last year.
And Latin America continues to perform well across the region.
Slide 7 shows our mix of business by industry.
There were no significant changes in our mix of business in the quarter.
And again this quarter we experienced positive growth across all of the industry segments that we serve.
In the auto industry while we had low single-digit growth overall excluding Chrysler it was up over 26%.
In the financial services technology healthcare and pharma food and beverage and consumer products segments led our growth this quarter each having double-digit growth rates.
Turning to Slide 8 cash flow.
Our cash performance in the quarter was in line with our expectations.
We generated approximately $160 million of free cash flow after CapEx and excluding changes in working capital.
Our primary uses of cash during the quarter were dividends to our common shareholders which totaled $58 million; dividends paid to our non-controlling interests shareholders of $25 million; acquisitions including earn-out payments and the purchase of additional interest in controlled subsidiaries net of proceeds from the sale of investments of approximately $216 million; and share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our share plans and the related tax benefits totaled approximately $302 million.
Slide 9 shows our current capital structure.
Including changes in working capital our net debt position at the end of the quarter was approximately $1.7 billion an increase of about $350 million over the last 12 months.
That increase was driven predominantly by our stock repurchase activity which has totaled $1.2 billion over the last 12 months.
And our total debt was $3.2 billion which was effectively unchanged from year end and up about $1 billion year-over-year due to the issuance of the 2020 bonds last August.
Our leverage ratio or total debt-to-EBITDA ratio stands at 1.8x and net debt-to-EBITDA is just under 1x.
Our interest coverage ratio remained very strong at 11.9x.
Our liquidity continues to be very strong as well.
We finished the quarter with cash and undrawn committed credit facilities totaling about $3.5 billion.
We had additional uncommitted facilities available totaling another $670 million.
And finally on Slide 11 where all the numbers come together both our return on invested capital and return on equity for the last 12 months increased to 15.7% and 23.3% respectively both reapproaching our 20-year averages.
And with that I'm going to now ask the operator to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first on the line is Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Just a couple of questions.
First looking a bit closer to organic revenue growth in the U.S.
in the quarter is there any sort of unique trends as the quarter progressed that would suggest maybe a bit more of a moderation in the second quarter? And then if you could also touch on PR and it seems a little bit light.
What happened there? I believe I mean what happened in the first quarter without Chrysler there is very consistent on what we expected to happen and I think what we signaled to the marketplace when we reported in February that we were going to return to more normal comps which is we’ll outperform GDP growth.
And so we don't see any difficulties.
We see the continuation of strong moderate growth I think.
I think that's right.
We explained in the fourth quarter sort of that fourth quarter effect why that drove organic growth exceptionally high in the fourth quarter.
Again excluding Chrysler organic growth in the U.S.
was pretty strong.
So basically adjusting for the comps you would expect sort of the growth rate to sort of continue like what we saw in Q1 into Q2.
Is that fair? No.
The only thing I'd caution you with this is that I still see a return to a more normal activity.
So we should be able to outperform GDP by a couple of basis points I mean -- a couple of a hundred basis points please forgive me.
And then on public relations anything there? It just seems a little bit lighter than I would've thought.
I don't think there was anything unusual.
It's not a huge number.
It does bounce around a little bit from quarter-to-quarter.
Okay.
And then Germany I think I might have missed Germany.
I know it's a big market for you.
How did you do there in the quarter? Germany was lower this quarter than last quarter.
I think it was more of a client-driven versus the economy driven.
Okay.
And then lastly just jumping on to -- you highlighted obviously some one-time-ish charges associated with the closures and divestitures in the quarter.
The severance that you pointed out are those all associated with the divestitures? I mean are they sort of one-time-ish or are there also some ongoing severance in that number? Well it's not all dispositions as I tried to point out.
We did a lot of consolidations so we consolidated a number of locations.
We're trying to centralize some back office services for some of our smaller operations.
We consolidated locations within a country with agencies.
So there was quite a bit of severance associated with those items as well.
A lot of the severance was also in Europe so it was I'll say fairly expensive per headcount.
But I guess I'm trying to get a sense of -- you usually you don't break out severance.
It's sort of a one-time-ish.
So would you say the majority of it is associated with the general restructuring efforts? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
And just lastly you mentioned you did a great job I think giving us detail on sort of the issues in your client base surrounding these global crises we saw in the quarter.
But you did mention that what you can't really tell though is if there's going to be an impact in terms of pull back in spending by Japanese businesses spending rest in the world.
I don't know if this is something you can quantify but do you have any sort of ballpark sense of how much your business is sort of could potentially fall into that category? We don't have a number.
We can't even gauge it.
I mean there's a few Japanese clients and we don't know how their production is really going to be affected as you get into the second quarter.
I think I feel more comfortable as I look at it over the course of the year though.
But by the end of the year even if there's a quarterly shift somewhere it should return to normal.
Our next question is from the line of Craig Huber with Access 342.
Can you speak a little bit about what you're expecting over the second quarter trends over euro and then U.K.
looks like in the first quarter U.K.
was up a strong 9.1% and euro denominated markets up 2.1%.
Are those trends continuing here in the second quarter? The U.K.
was strong all throughout last year as well.
Most of the major European markets were fairly strong last year and the smaller markets were fairly negative.
What we expect this year and it seemed to be the case in the first quarter is that the negative markets are getting less negative and moving back to I'll say zero or probably by the end of the year move back to sort of at least small single-digit organic growth.
I would suspect the markets that have higher growth will moderate.
It will move back towards GDP or a couple of hundred basis points above GDP growth rates.
And then also can you help us from a modeling perspective I mean your net acquisitions in the quarter I guess added 1.4% to the revenues.
Given that you haven't -- everything wasn't fully closed in the first quarter and you've closed on some acquisitions since the first quarter what should investors expect for acquisitions to add to revenues during the second quarter as a percentage of revenues? Net of divestitures? Yes.
Net basis yes.
Timing is still a bit of an issue.
A couple of the acquisitions that we did Clemenger in particular was a larger acquisition that got done in early February.
The dispositions got done later in the quarter.
Yes we have one or two more dispositions actually it might even be a couple of more than that that we're hoping to occur in the second quarter but that timing is far from certain.
So where would you ballpark then your -- the acquisitions would add to revenues here in the second quarter 2% or so or you're not sure? I think it's probably going to be 1.5% to 2%.
Okay.
And I also want to ask this margin target EBITDA margin target for full year 2012 of 13.5% how much progress do you think you'll make this calendar year towards I guess roughly 140 150 basis points improvement do we got about a little bit over 1/3 of the way through towards the basis points? Well we're endeavoring to improve the margins this year on the way to getting there next year.
We've demonstrated a little bit of that in the first quarter.
What we're doing is we're going through as we said in restructuring and repositioning things for growth.
So I feel very comfortable with the 2012 forecast based upon everything that I see now.
I don't want to necessarily get into a quarterly forecast of margin improvement while I'm still going through this process.
So I'm not being very helpful but you know that we're endeavoring to improve things along the way.
And the way the P&amp;L works Craig as you know is there's costs associated with getting some of those efficiencies.
This quarter there were large numbers so we broke them out.
Generally those are just ongoing costs.
I'm sure we didn't capture all the costs this quarter.
These were really the costs associated with these very specific fairly large restructuring items.
Every agency is going through initiatives to get its operations more efficient and streamlined.
There's costs associated with that.
Is it safe to say then for you expect like more progress towards the basis points improvement in 2012 than you expect here in 2011? I think yes.
And next we move to William Bird with Lazard.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about -- just elaborate a little more on organic revenue growth? Excluding Chrysler do you expect Q2 organic growth to be similar to Q1? Yes I think overall it will be similar to Q1.
Yes these are pretty high organic growth rates still relative to GDP.
What we said last year is that organic growth over time is going to reconnect with GDP.
We think we can outpace GDP by 100 to 200 basis points.
It's sort of the timing of that reconnection.
We thought last year we stated in the fourth quarter that we thought the U.S.
organic growth rate would slow.
As a result of that we think the European organic growth rate will improve overall.
And that's largely going to be the negative countries getting these or less negative or returning to positive as their comps line up.
And some of the larger markets that had performed pretty well throughout last year in all likelihood their organic growth rates will slow.
And I don't think 9% organic growth in the U.K.
is probably going to occur at that level given the current GDP growth rates for a year or two.
But our agency is with strong individual performance can certainly prove us wrong those are kind of macro predictions.
Yes.
The only thing I would add to it Bill is just two-words question and it's like I'm happy with what Randy just said.
One is the second quarter is the second-largest quarter we face in the year just because of the seasonality of the business and the second thing is if there is a quarterly impact to disruption coming from some of the Japanese especially the auto dealers and the like in all likelihood that's going to -- we're going to be affected in the second quarter there before we have an opportunity to recover over the course of the rest of the year.
Very helpful.
On that topic at this stage have you seen any pullback from the U.S.
auto companies from any Japanese supply chain disruption? I'm not doing it day-to-day.
We have not seen it but we've heard discussions around it a lot of rhetoric.
So I don't have any hard numbers yet to tell you.
And given how you account for organic growth did dispositions have any impact on organic growth positive or negative? It wouldn't have no.
I don't think so.
Do you think it was neutral? I think it was probably neutral.
Yes it would have been neutral.
Our next question is from Meggan Friedman with William Blair &amp; Company.
I wanted to ask a question on the impact of rising commodity prices.
Can you talk about how clients are talking about marketing spending plans given these increases? Are the conversations changing as a result of this? It's a real pressure on a number of our clients especially some packaged goods clients that we have.
We're concerned about the things that they're concerned about in their business.
But I think those issues have not resulted in any material changes to their marketing plans because I believe they're all focused very heavily on market share gains.
So the two aren't 100% correlated although there is a lot of conversation.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then I actually just had one housekeeping question.
Did you provide a new business wins number? I don't think I did but it was just under $1.1 billion.
Our next question is from Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Just want to talk about costs for a moment.
Last year you guys spoke a bit about I think catch-up so to speak in terms of underlying costs and probably on the salary and services side in terms of either base salaries or payroll or insurance and then real estate all those items that sort of go up year-on-year regardless of what you're doing elsewhere in the business.
So excluding the actions that you took this quarter can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of costs elsewhere in the business? I think a lot of the -- there were a couple of things that we talked about last year in trying to manage costs.
I think some of the areas of cost that we were able to manage in 2009 I think they came back in 2010 and I think those cost buckets were pretty full in 2010.
I think we made quite a bit of progress in 2010 on real estate.
I think we'll have a little bit more to go on that with some of the consolidations and the things that we're trying to execute on.
I think as far as base compensation costs I think that's one of the areas that our agencies have to focus heavily on this year to make sure that we put the flexibility back in our cost structures.
That's certainly one of the tasks that we've given people to focus on.
When you talk about the agencies being focused on it this year to what extent does that involve getting some of your comp levels particularly at media agencies trued up to competitive levels as of January 1? I think we're probably in competitive levels now.
I certainly don't believe we're under -- yes I don't think our comp structures are under our competitors.
Okay.
And just in terms of the actions that you're taking on the cost side what are you -- how do you categorize them geographically split between the U.S.
and international particularly in Europe and do you have an expectation as you go through this process for the payback period? I would think most of the activities are in the United States and developed Europe in terms of geographic locations.
And I think the payback period we're looking for is throughout this year but certainly the largest payoff being 2012 where we see the margin improvement.
And depending upon the cost action payback on the I'll say headcount side salary side is generally quite a bit faster in the United States than in Europe.
Certainly when you get into a real estate and operations your payback's pretty comparable between one market and the other.
And then just finally is the split geographically similar in terms of severance relative to the OMG? No.
Severance is much more heavily weighted towards Europe and the international markets.
And our next question is from Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
I have a couple.
I just wanted to clarify when you guys have said GDP you guys are going to grow 100 basis points 200 basis points per GDP that's nominal U.S.
right? That's the benchmarks you're pointing to? Yes.
And then I guess we won't know until the quarter is all done for everyone but would you think that if you adjust for Chrysler 6.8% growth U.S.
do you think that's going to be at the end of the first quarter have a normal run rate for everyone in the quarter? Do you guys think you took share or lost share have any sense of what the overall market’s looking like in the first quarter for the U.S.? I don't have any sense of the number.
I think our agencies performed pretty well.
I think our new business activity over the last couple of quarters which is what would really drive the organic growth rate this quarter.
Current new business wins or losses really it affects it more three to six months down the road.
I think our agencies have done fairly well.
So I suspect we'll be in the mix with everyone else.
Question the revenue question people just were surprised by the downgrade from second -- from fourth quarter growth to first quarter.
I know there were a lot of one-timers and project numbers and the comp rate was easy.
But in terms of what you're looking at your businesses were -- there were no change to the kind of projection -- your projection of your business versus what you looked at for the fourth quarter? The fourth quarter organic growth as we explained in the fourth quarter was high because of the fourth quarter effect.
I estimated it at roughly 3%.
When we looked at the year end -- the fourth quarter revenue effect there's -- and I've explained it to a lot of different people there's a number of things that go into that.
We think that number was about $100 million at the end of 2009 and we think it was about $200 million at the end of 2010.
That $100 million of incremental growth in sort of that one category of revenue was really about 3% or so organic growth in the fourth quarter.
That's not a long-term sort of trend issue that's kind of a one-time “getting back to normal” effect.
Yes I mean and historically the way the business has always been and it's also true of our competitors is classically the second -- the largest quarter is the fourth quarter.
The next largest quarter is the second quarter followed by the third quarter followed by the first [ph] quarter.
So that's the seasonality of the industry of the business.
So there's nothing terribly unusual in doing -- in what happened in the first quarter as it compares to the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then the other question just last one would be do you remember what first quarter severance was a year ago? What's kind of a normalized and I guess nothing's normal but what was the compare for severance last year for this quarter? I don't recall but organic growth was just modestly positive last quarter.
I think in 2010 we were just recovering.
Sorry I don't have the number in front of me.
Our next question is from John Janedis with UBS.
I'll follow-up on any numbers we don't have here.
Randy the U.K.
was pretty strong in the face of some macro headwinds.
Were there any one-time projects or major wins there? And what are your clients and people on the ground telling you and is the government a meaningful client? No we don't do a lot of government business.
We have a little bit probably everywhere but it's not a meaningful number for us.
The U.K.
has been fairly strong for us throughout last year certainly stronger than just the economy.
So the performance of our underlying agencies has been very good in that market.
There's not a specific single item that I can find that's really driving the U.K.
to an abnormal level.
The items can get I'll say relatively small as we start focusing on individual countries $3 million or something moves the needle a 100 basis points in the U.K.
Okay.
And then just somewhat of a follow-up to Mike's question you called out the severance.
Can you help us maybe with a more normalized run rate going forward? And does EBITDA margin target that you've set for next year incorporate maybe all charges in the remeasurement gain or is it exclusive of those items? Next year's margin objective? Yes.
Well next year's margin objectives was trying to get back to the 2007 levels.
So it doesn't reference this year.
Did I miss something? I just wanted to make sure if it includes any kind of severance going forward.
That's all in the number right? Yes absolutely.
Yes.
And then just in terms of severance is it more normalized run rate on a quarterly basis more like 30-ish or...
No probably more like 15.
Our next question is from James Dix with Wedbush.
Just a couple of things.
First has your outlook for Eurozone growth changed at all over the past three months? I mean there's been some chatter about how various underlying media businesses are doing there so I was just curious on your take on it.
And then a couple items on margin.
I think you addressed dispositions’ impact on revenue is being -- organic revenue growth is being minimal.
Any impact of dispositions on margin that you saw in the quarter? And then one other thing on margin are you seeing any differences of note in incremental margins either across your disciplines or across geographies? See if I remember them all.
For Europe Europe's I guess playing out over the last few quarters and this quarter kind of as I expected.
The larger markets recovered earlier keeping in mind we have a fairly substantial base of multinational clients that are going to focus their resources on what they believe are important markets.
So France Germany and the U.K.
all did fairly well last year and we think will continue.
The smaller markets across Europe they were hurt by their local economies and I'm sure are probably less of a focus for some of the multinational clients.
We felt that those countries that were significantly negative would be at a minimum less negative.
So they're going to have less of an impact or at least less of a negative impact.
So with that reduction our European growth would improve basically is what continue to happen this quarter.
The larger markets performed fairly well and I pointed out the PIGS markets Spain is actually positive for us this quarter.
The other markets were negative but they were less negative than they were last year.
So the European growth rates overall improved.
Trying to get to some of your other questions you talked about margins by discipline.
We've pointed out for a while the Media business in general has higher margins and some of our field marketing shopper marketing businesses have lower margins field marketing especially but they have very good returns on equity.
They have very little capital committed to those businesses so they're frankly excellent businesses from a return perspective but their overall EBIT margins are a bit lower.
And a couple more I probably forgot them.
Yes there was just one.
Any impact on margins from dispositions for quarter-to-quarter now? Yes -- well the dispositions most of them happen late in the quarter.
Obviously we're not trying to dispose of our higher margin businesses so we do expect some benefit over time from selling those businesses.
As far as going back to sort of Bill's question on dispositions with organic growth the way we calculate organic growth the revenues from the companies we disposed of would be in that base.
To the extent those companies would've had flat growth it wouldn't have affected us if they would have had negative growth not having the business -- and we wouldn't have that negative revenue piece but the base is still in it.
And we're talking a very small amount of revenue here annualized revenue about $120 million is what's been disposed of to date.
So I don't think you can have really much of an impact.
If it does it could be positive 0.1 point to negative 0.1 point.
It would be very very minor and the margins again it will also be fairly minor.
It could maybe move the number 0.1 or something.
0.1 on a consolidated basis? Right yes.
And just one follow-up you said your free cash flow looks like [ph] the results for the quarter were generally in line with your expectations.
I notice they did drop year-over-year so if you could give just a little color on that I assume a lot of it had to do with the repositioning but just also your outlook for free cash flow growth for the full year as well? Let's look at the slides.
Yes I think it's basically in the non-cash charges.
I think our free cash will continue to perform in line with EBITDA.
What I was focusing more on with that comment was the fact that we utilized more than our free cash in the quarter.
We generally think that we're going to utilize our free cash for dividends acquisitions and share repurchases for the quarter is that we were going to outspend that as we did this quarter.
Acquisitions were fairly high because both the Communispace and Clemenger deals closed in the quarter and we continue to repurchase shares.
We bought I think it was 6.8 million shares in the quarter and that's really what I was focused on.
Okay.
So you expect that to continue the use of cash being a little higher than the generation? Right.
And our generation's going to continue to be in line with EBITDA.
And we'll go to Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
I'll chop it down to just one question than two.
I heard a little bit in the marketplace and some of your competitors about a move towards performance-based pricing particularly at the media agencies and I was just interested to hear your take on that trend.
I don't really know what you're hearing.
There's conversations going -- there have been rumors from my competitors since 1988 on the subject so I don't see any wholesale change in the way that the fundamentals are there.
There’s traded [ph] digital kind of difference in traditional media but I'm not quite certain of the source of your question.
I think that maybe it's like the DSP type platforms we call the trading desk that's in effect a performance-based model and certainly there's increased focused on that versus last year still a relatively small percentage of what the media companies are buying.
Yes I think that's probably it.
People have been talking about performance fees and have experimented with performance fees for a number of years but the percentage of our revenue that's the actual performance piece remains to be very small.
Thank you all very much and thanks for taking the time to listen to our call.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to now introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our second quarter 2011 earnings call.
We hope everyone's had a chance to review our earnings release.
We posted to our website both the press release and a presentation covering the information that we'll present this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that is included on Page 1 of our investor presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and actual events or results may differ materially.
I'd also like to remind you that during the course of this earnings call we'll discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find a reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation accompanying this call.
We're going to begin the call with some brief remarks from John Wren.
Following John's remarks we'll review our financial performance for the quarter in more detail and then both John and I will be happy to take questions.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us.
We're pleased to announce strong operating results for the second quarter.
It was an excellent quarter all the way around.
Despite the challenging worldwide economic backdrop our results reflect our continued focus on disciplined growth by enhancing the capabilities in the performance of our portfolio of agencies around the world.
While every market is different we remain consistent in our focus of driving profitable and sustainable growth.
The result is we believe we are executing against our 2011 business performance objectives and we're improving our market position for tomorrow.
I want to highlight several areas this morning.
In the second quarter organic growth was up 7.2% over the same period in 2010.
Growth was particularly strong in our advertising and CRM businesses.
Geographically the strongest performing areas were the U.S.
Asia and South America.
Second we're continuing to execute against our strategic objective of building a deeper presence in rapidly growing markets.
In the second quarter we announced the creation of a new business unit Omnicom Greater China.
This unit will enhance our ability to maximize global marketing and brand building opportunities for our Chinese and multinational clients.
The group already operates in more than 40 agencies in over 30 locations covering 130 cities in Greater China and the new operating structure will allow for greater coordination and integration.
Looking to the second half we expect to increase our acquisition activities in other high-growth developing markets.
Third we continue to make progress towards our goal of returning margins to 2007 levels by 2012 which began in earnest late last year.
Randy will take you through more details of our margin for the second quarter a bit later.
However we began to see the effects of our strategic and repositioning activities on our margins during the quarter and expect the margin improvement to continue during the second half of the year and into 2012.
Although we're not finished yet with our review of all the companies in our portfolio and we still have a little bit more work to do we do not expect to incur any significant charges for the remainder of the year.
Finally our agencies continue to create groundbreaking award-winning work that delivers value for our clients.
At the International Festival of Creativity in Cannes held in June our networks and agencies once again demonstrated their leadership by garnering top honors with BBDO and DDB ranking among the top 3 networks worldwide.
BBDO is the #1 ranked network for the fifth year in a row and took home 3 Grand Prix awards the most awarded to any agency network at the festival.
And for the first time they received the network Global Creative Effectiveness award.
BBDO Almap in Brazil was also named Agency of the Year for the second time in a row and DDB's top wins included a Titanium line.
Now let me touch on a few more specifics.
Across the globe our businesses remain resilient despite some significant challenges facing individual markets in Europe and the continued challenges facing Japan.
In the U.S.
we saw very strong organic growth which was 8.1% versus the second quarter of last year.
Though the job picture and the pace of economic improvement is more negative than it was last quarter and we remain concerned about the failure to complete a debt ceiling deal we believe that this situation will improve over the coming weeks and months.
And as a result we expect to see a moderate growth in the U.S.
throughout the rest of 2011.
In Europe the picture is largely positive.
Growth remains strong in the U.K.
and in most European countries inside and outside the Eurozone.
Overall organic growth in the Eurozone was positive despite a year-over-year difficult comparison in France and the loss of an important client in the Netherlands.
Meanwhile in the rest of Europe outside of the Eurozone we saw a very solid positive growth.
In Asia we continue to see double-digit growth even as Japan continues to recover from the tragic events of the first quarter which resulted in negative growth in that country.
And in the Middle East and South America we also experienced very strong double-digit organic growth.
Thanks in part to the strong growth in developing markets together with new investments in these markets we continue to diversify our businesses globally.
Non-U.S.
revenues for the quarter increased to 49% from 46% in the year-ago period even as the U.S.
continues to grow very very significantly.
And revenues from markets other than the U.S.
the U.K.
and the Eurozone represent almost 22% of our revenue in the quarter compared to 18% in the prior year.
By industry our growth is coming from across the spectrum of industries we serve.
Revenues are up in every significant industry category with auto financial services technology and travel and entertainment having performed very very well.
Turning to our cash flow.
We remain committed to maximizing returns by utilizing free cash flow and cash on hand for dividends acquisitions and share repurchases.
While acquisition activity was slower during the quarter than in the past several quarters we continue to see a broad range of well-priced opportunities and we would expect activity to pick up again in the second half of the year with a continued focus on expanding our presence in rapidly growing markets.
During the quarter we repurchased 6.6 million shares for a total of 13.4 million shares year-to-date.
In closing we're pleased with the performance of our business and the progress on our strategic priorities.
We understand that our clients are looking for strategic partners who can not only create great work but can help them address critical business challenges both globally and locally.
With this in mind we continue to develop our management teams and seek leaders and innovators around the world to help us optimize our portfolio and drive profitable and sustainable growth.
Together our strategies will allow us to continue to serve our clients across geographies and disciplines in the face of the changes in the geographic landscape and rapidly evolving technologies.
I'll now turn the call back to Randy who'll take us through the numbers and then we'll be available to answer your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you John.
It was an excellent quarter all the way around.
Our agencies performed very well being recognized by their clients with more than $1 billion in new business wins again this quarter as well as being recognized by their peers in the numerous creative shows that have taken place this year around the world.
And not to be left out our treasury group was awarded the Adam Smith Award for best practice and innovation for 2011.
In the second quarter we continue to make solid progress towards the goals we set for ourselves for 2011 and 2012.
In spite of continued uncertainties in the domestic and global economies Omnicom recorded strong organic revenue growth in most of our major markets and all of our targeted growth markets as well as across the full breadth of industries that we serve.
Our agencies also made excellent progress in leveraging our people and resources more effectively and managing our costs more efficiently.
We achieved meaningful margin improvements this quarter and continue to track well towards the margin target we set for ourselves for 2012.
Now turning to the details of our financial performance.
With very strong organic growth and a fairly significant positive FX impact our year-over-year revenue grew 14.7% bringing revenue for the quarter up to $3.49 billion.
Our reported EBITDA increased 18.4% to $511 million.
Our resulting EBITDA margin was up substantially to 14.7% which was about a 50 basis point improvement from last year.
it's also worth noting that this margin improvement was net of what was a negative impact from FX of almost 20 basis points.
And our reported operating income or EBIT increased 17.5% to $488 million.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $27.6 million up $3.9 million from Q2 of last year and down about $4.5 million from Q1 this year.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflected the interest on the $1 billion 10-year senior note we issued last August partially offset by the positive effect of the interest rate swaps we entered into on our 2016 senior notes and the benefits of our strong operating cash performance.
On the tax front our reported tax rate for the quarter was 34.3%.
Basically in line with our expected operating rate for 2011 which is between 34.2% and 34.4%.
As a result net income for the quarter increased a very strong 13.1% to $275 million.
And when combined with the year-over-year share reduction of 7.6% diluted earnings per share on the quarter increased substantially to $0.96 per share or a 21.5% increase.
Turning to Page 3.
We take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX on a year-over-year basis the dollar continued to weaken versus most of our major currencies.
The net result was a positive FX impact on revenue for the quarter of $168 million or about 5.5%.
As I mentioned before the FX impact had a negative impact on our EBITDA margin of about 20 basis points.
Looking ahead if FX rates stay where they are currently we expect FX to be positive around 4% in Q3 and then about 2% in Q4.
Revenue growth from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $60 million in the quarter or about 2%.
The second quarter represented the first full quarter impact of the acquisitions of the Clemenger Group in Australia and New Zealand and Communispace in the U.S.
as well as several dispositions primarily in the U.S.
There continue to be several additional dispositions that we are working on that we expect to complete before year end.
And as always there are a number of acquisitions that are being reviewed and considered.
With regard to organic growth we had another very strong quarter.
Our agencies are doing very well in the new business front and on expanding the scope of services they are providing clients especially with respect to the use of new technologies.
As I mentioned we continue to see year-over-year growth across every industry sector that we serve and we finally cycled on the loss of Chrysler this quarter.
As a result organic revenue growth was a very strong 7.2% or $218 million.
Turning to our mix of business.
Brand advertising accounted for 46% of our revenue and Marketing Services 54%.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising continue to take the lead with 10% organic growth while Marketing Services was up 4.9%.
Within the Marketing Services category CRM had 7.5% organic growth.
And within this sector direct and field marketing branding and research all had outstanding performances.
Public Relations had organic growth of 1.3% and Specialty Communications decreased by about 1.2%.
On Slide 5 our geographic mix of business in the quarter was 51% U.S.
and 49% international.
In the United States revenue increased $127 million or 7.8%.
Acquisitions net of dispositions reduced revenue by about $5 million or 0.3% and organic growth continue to be very strong at 8.1% or about $132 million.
International revenue increased $319 million or 22.7%.
A little more than half that growth or $168 million was a result of FX changes.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $65 million or 4.7% and organic growth although very mixed by country was overall quite strong and up 6.1% or about $86 million.
Internationally in Asia we had stronger performances in China Australia South Korea Singapore and India.
Japan was modestly negative with several of our agencies feeling the effect of the earthquake and tsunami.
In Europe results continue to be very mixed.
The U.K.
and Russia performed very well.
France was flat and Germany was up modestly.
Elsewhere in Europe we had good performances in the Czech Republic and Belgium.
In the so-called peak markets organic growth in the aggregate are far better than last year was only marginally positive with Spain Portugal and Italy performing okay and Ireland and Greece continuing to be negative.
Additionally Latin America and the Middle East continue to have strong double-digit organic growth.
Slide 6 shows our mix of business by industry.
There were no significant changes in our mix of business in the quarter and again this quarter we experienced positive growth across all of the industry segments that we serve.
The strongest sectors for us were financial services technology travel and entertainment retail and now that we've cycled through the loss of Chrysler our auto business was up year-over-year in the quarter almost 20%.
Turning to Slide 7 cash flow.
Our cash performance in the first half of the year was in line with our expectations.
We generated approximately $470 million of free cash flow after CapEx and excluding changes in working capital.
Our primary uses of cash year-to-date were dividends to our common shareholders which totaled about $129 million; dividends paid to our noncontrolling interest shareholders of about $50 million; acquisitions net of the proceeds from the sale of investments was $277 million; and share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our share plans and their related tax benefits totaled $557 million.
Combined this resulted in a net use of cash year-to-date of approximately $543 million.
Slide 8 shows our current capital structure.
Our net debt position at the end of the quarter was approximately $2.2 billion which was an increase of about $550 million over the last 12 months.
That increase was driven predominantly by a return of capital to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases which for the last 12 months totaled about $1.5 billion and that's net of the stock issuance proceeds.
And our total debt was $3.2 billion which was effectively unchanged from the end of the first quarter and up about $1 billion year-over-year through the issuance of the 2020 bonds last August.
Our leverage ratio or total debt-to-EBITDA ratio stands at 1.8x and our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is approximately 1.2x.
Our interest coverage ratio remained very strong at 11.9x.
And finally on Slide 9 where all the numbers come together our return on invested capital and return on equity for the last 12 months increased to 15.5% and 24.5% respectively.
Both improved from last quarter and both remain consistent with our 10-year historic averages.
And with that I'm going to now ask the operator to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question in queue will come from John Janedis with UBS.
Can you give us a little more color on what you're seeing in the U.K.? You're now on I think the fifth consecutive quarter of mid- to high-single digit organic growth in the marketplace and I'm wondering how much of that is share gains? And what are your people on the ground telling you about clients spend given that continued soft economy in the market? I would say share gains contribute quite a bit to our overall performance in the U.K.
We have excellent agencies there and we've been batting very well in terms of new business opportunities.
In terms of many of our clients there are regionally and globally based clients so there's an increase in spending in terms of what their plans are and their objectives are.
Okay.
And then on -- Randy for you you talked about consolidations and divestitures as part of your margin goals for next year.
Can you give us an update on how far along you are relative to plan there? Yes.
As we mentioned or as John mentioned we think we're pretty far along with anything that could have a charge.
We think we've taken most of those charges in the first quarter.
We certainly have a few more transactions we'd like to get completed.
The timing of that is hard to determine.
It's not fully in our control.
People are progressing but whether they're going to close behind the third quarter the fourth quarter is hard to say.
I have to say there were a couple that I was hoping we're going to close in the second quarter that didn't happen.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Just looking at the impressive top line results in the quarter can you give us a general sense of how they may progress through the quarter? I'm trying to get an idea if you have any sense of the good growth continuing into Q3? And also sort of on that same topic could you just elaborate on what clients are saying about spending in the second half? Do you find that they're generally on track for their annual budgets? At the moment I would say people are on track for the spending that they're planned to do.
There is as we all know there's a fair amount of uncertainty here in the U.S.
given Congress' inaction and people not knowing quite how to plan in the near term.
So we remain a victim as everyone is of those actions But short of that everybody has been very consistent so far in terms of what their planning is for the balance of the year.
I think our revenues over the quarter were pretty balanced month-to-month.
So really no reason to assume that we should see sort of a change in the trend in sort of July August given your comps are roughly the same? No I mean July and August the third quarter is not as large or significant as the second quarter is.
But on a year-over-year basis I think we can expect the same type of growth.
And just that you bought back an impressive number of shares sort of year-to-date it sounds from your earlier comments that the focus may be more towards acquisitions in the second half.
Are those -- how much -- I guess any comments you could give us on your outlook for the share repurchase given that in the second half and also how much visibility do you have on that acquisition pipeline over the next couple of months? And should we assume that acquisition growth therefore should offset the divestitures that you highlighted? We have a great visibility in our pipeline.
We don't necessarily have such great visibility on when they're going to close.
So that one's a little trickier.
Two sides to every transaction.
I mean I guess are there some deals that sort of you -- I mean when you say the acquisition activity's going to pick up how much confidence do you have behind that? Are there some deals that you're about to close some deals that you closed? And if not should we assume the buyback activity will be similar to the first half? Well there's a number of deals which we're in the process of completing.
We expect some of them will close in the next -- in the third quarter or beginning of the fourth quarter.
Again as Randy suggested we're not always 100% in control of the timing because there's another side to the equation.
And so we've targeted a number of companies in a number of developing markets and we're proceeding at a pace to close them.
I suspect that they'll be closed this year.
I just don't know the month in which they will be done.
At least I'm hopeful that they'll be done.
Having said that I think we exceeded what our original target was in terms of repurchasing shares slightly than what we told you in the first half.
We will make those judgments along with the board as we get through the rest of the year but right now our focus is on acquisitions.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Nollen from Macquarie.
I have some interrelated questions on operating margin.
First off did you have any -- or can you give us any numbers behind any type of onetime items that might have been incurred in Q2? I didn't see any in the press release or the slides.
Secondly related to this it looks like your SG&amp;A margin went up just a bit but you're OMG margin went down quite a lot in Q2.
If you could talk a bit about what went behind those.
And then lastly again interrelated to this you had been saying that your progress towards your margin target might be a bit more 2H weighted as opposed to 1H although your Q2 margin expansion was 50 basis points.
Does this mean you I guess this is related to a previous question are you maybe a little ahead of track here? Or what should we think about second half margins? Almost forget the first points.
So the first points were on...
Onetime items if there were any onetime charges you could talk about in Q2? Certainly wasn't anything significant I mean I guess for the company of our size there's always -- you can call anything you want one time.
But there's certainly nothing of major significance.
As far as the breakout of where our operating leverage came from we had operating leverage everywhere.
What came through in the quarter was on I'll say some of our fixed cost.
We're certainly making fairly good progress on rent depreciation and those types of items that are in control of the cost making reasonable progress on the salary side as well.
That gets offset a little bit by incentive accruals as well.
Incentive accruals have been up for the first half.
So it creates a bit of a balance.
I think we're largely and you said kind of how we're tracking I think we're largely on track to where we wanted to be from a margin perspective coming through the year.
I was a little bit surprised with the impact that FX had on margins.
Obviously our domestic margins are a little bit higher than our international margins overall and with the normal sort of 2% or 3% plus or minus FX you don't really notice it.
This quarter with the 5.5% impact from FX we actually saw it in the margins a little bit.
It was almost 20 basis points.
So I think overall we're tracking pretty well.
I think we're pretty happy with our progress.
Certainly have an awful lot of people in the organization if not everybody focused on it.
Your next question comes from the line of William Bird from Lazard.
John I was wondering if you could just talk about how much impact social media is having on your business? And as you look at results this quarter was there any particular part of your business that really surprised you? I guess the second question first.
There wasn't anything that surprised me very much.
We just saw a very steady performance in all the markets that weren't under some unusual stress like Japan and Greece.
So I was happy across the board as Randy mentioned and I mentioned I think in our comments.
In terms of social media it's affecting everything Bill.
I would imagine almost every campaign advertising campaign we do every marketing services store promotion campaign that we do at this point has some social marketing component to it.
And it's becoming just part of the normal process that we go through in terms of wanting to include and extend the messaging into a network.
So it's pretty much the norm.
It's no longer just demographic targeting and media selection.
It's how do you engage the consumer and try to encourage that kind of conversation.
I think even broader is just the rapid deployment of new and emerging technologies.
It seems that every one of our disciplines every one of our campaigns people are experimenting with or utilizing new technologies to extend the region extend the breadth of the campaigns.
Great.
And just a follow-up just wondering if you're seeing any kind of change in behavior in just some of your more discretionary like project-type areas of your business? So much of it I can categorize as a project.
Now I wouldn't say I mean it's constantly evolving it's constantly changing.
But I wouldn't say there's any major trends that are developing that stand out.
Your next question comes from the line of James Dix with Wedbush.
Just maybe 3 questions.
John I guess you were indicating in the back half of the year you were looking in the U.S.
for more moderate -- for moderate growth I don't want to misstate it.
I'm assuming you consider the 8% growth in the second quarter above moderate.
So I just want to see if you can give any more color as to what you're looking for in the U.S.
kind of in the back half of the year especially since the comparisons get pretty tough in the fourth quarter.
And then secondly in terms of margins was there any easily quantifiable impact of your dispositions on margins in the second quarter? And then finally just any general thoughts on what type of salary pressure or turnover pressure you're seeing in terms of your margins going forward? Or are salary increases and turnover kind of in line with historical norms at this stage of the cycle? First U.S.
growth.
I mean U.S.
growth has trended a little higher in the first half when you exclude Chrysler from our first quarter than we have been anticipating.
And it's hard sitting here given the backdrop of unemployment and all the challenges that the U.S.
has to think that it's not going to moderate closer to what our original forecast which was a couple of points slower as we get into the second half.
We're not hoping for that.
We're not planning for it -- we are planning for it.
So we're being a bit conservative in that.
Until we see it we're not going to believe it's going to happen.
In terms of margins I didn't...
The question was the impact of dispositions on margins.
It wasn't meaningful.
Certainly the companies that we've tried to dispose of were not high-margin high-growth businesses.
Otherwise we wouldn't have been looking to dispose of them.
So I'm sure there was a positive impact.
But at most it would have been a couple basis points.
Okay.
So certainly under 10%? Yes.
First of all it wasn't very much revenue.
So it couldn't have a lot of impact.
And the last one was salary pressure and turnover.
I don't believe turnover has changed in any kind of a meaningful way.
Salary pressure there is some salary pressure.
We're 2 or 3 years into a recessionary period that we've been trying to control costs.
There's certainly a number of people that haven't had salary increases in a couple of years at this point.
So with that there's certainly some pressure but it's an unfortunate state of the U.S.
economy and a lot of the global economies that we're going to have to keep those costs under control.
So kind of a low single-digit at this point expectation in terms of just base salary growth? Certainly.
And it's not easy but we certainly try to manage to that.
As Randy said increasing base salaries as to reflect the growth of the marketplace that you're in.
And we try to reward people where we can't increase salaries through increased incentives if the performance exceeds what our expectations were.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Nathanson from Nomura.
I have a couple I'll do one at a time.
Randy you were mentioning the impact the foreign exchange is having on margins.
I just wonder if you can give us the hierarchy of the 4 regions report U.S.
U.K.
other and Euro you said U.S.
is the highest which of the 3 other regions what's the hierarchy of margin base rate? I don't know to be honest.
I've got the U.S.
a little bit higher.
Europe is probably at least right now on the lower end.
So what were the other -- I mean what were the regions you mentioned? U.S.? Yes I was looking at your Slide 5 U.S.
U.K.
other and Euro because I'm just trying to get a sense as we look at currency the rest of the way how should we think about the impact of currency by region on potential margin degradation for the currency? From a volume standpoint U.S.
and the Euro region including the U.K.
is the bulk of the revenue.
So the U.S.
margins are a bit higher than Europe.
The rest of the world isn't going to move the needle dramatically in that kind of a timeframe.
Okay.
And you mentioned acquisitions the international acquisitions is the majority of that in the other markets because I know commerce was there which should be Australia.
But is that focused mostly on others is there any acquisitions being done in Euro or U.K.? Yes we're always looking at acquisitions to extend our current capabilities around Europe.
We have a number of brand platforms operating in the Europe looking to extend their capabilities and reach so those are always possibilities.
And obviously it's a large geographic area so from a numbers standpoint it's inevitable that we'll complete a number of acquisitions in those markets.
As a strategic focus the rest of the world is obviously a greater yes I'll say a strategic focus Asia emerging Asia Latin America Middle East probably India obviously are very important and we've got a lot of resources focused on expanding there.
Okay.
But do you think year-to-date that is still mostly other is the main -- or the amount of flow you're seeing for acquisition base revenue is that mainly coming through the other geography line or is it more mixed? Yes I mean just to maybe restate what Randy said.
Our focus in terms of us working and searching and looking and developing acquisitions from a corporate perspective is really in the other developing markets around the world.
I would say once you get into the more developed markets they become opportunities and there are opportunities that come up from time to time and we act on them.
So our efforts are on both but we're actively searching in developing markets.
Okay.
One last one if you look at your revenue by industry mix you guys had a very big step up in financial services this quarter versus the last quarter last year's quarter.
I wonder was there anything unusual is it acquisitions related? Is it new business wins? So you went from maybe it's a rounding from 8% to 10% financial service impact in terms of the revenue by industry? Was there anything unusual about that? Or is that -- or any industry that's actually financial services that's driving that underneath these numbers? I think we had strong new business performance in the space as well as the sector doing well.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Huber from Access 342.
My first question please normally you give us the net new business wins in the quarter what was it this time please? One more time I'm sorry.
What was the net new business wins in the quarter? It was just over $1 billion.
Okay.
And then also you've talked about these divestitures.
Can you quantify the revenues what's potentially left here to divest is it less than $100 million of revenues at this stage? On an annual basis? Yes.
On an annualized basis it would be -- if we had everything completed on the potentials list it would be about $200 million.
Right.
The likelihood of that is unfortunately small but -- so it will be less than $200 million but the max will be about that.
Okay.
And was severance in the quarter more like a normal $15 million to $20 million? Yes.
Yes.
And then lastly can you just talk a little bit further on the Europe the Euro part x U.K.
of 0.4% in the quarter.
I mean given the worsening economic trends out there I mean does it seem inconceivable that could certainly go negative here in the third quarter I wanted to just curious what your clients are telling you a little bit further clarity please? It was actually fairly mixed results by market and somewhat business related.
We had a -- we had one client I think John mentioned that was reasonably sizable that was lost.
But Europe is -- at the moment Germany continues to be strong followed by the U.K.
The rest of Northern Europe is steady.
We saw some improvements in the non-Euro markets and then Southern Europe is a disaster.
The good news is that in Southern Europe our numbers which have been decreasing for the last several quarters are getting smaller so the decreases are less impactful.
Is the general sense though for Euro for the back half of the year that it would be -- trend similar to what you saw in the second quarter or worse or just too hard to tell right now? It's hard to tell.
So I mean being conservative we'd say we're expecting about the same as what we've seen.
Okay very good.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Chesler from Deutsche Bank.
Within your disciplines there is one that stood out especially Cannes down 1% maybe can you just give us some color as to what's driving that.
Is there any geographic exposure to that as well? And then Randy just in terms of your leverage it looks like you guys have restored your leverage to what it was before the downturn.
Wondering if you thought that you're finally at an optimal point in terms of leverage that you're comfortable with? Or if that might change to one degree or another going forward? First on specialty.
That category is largely our ethical pharmaceutical area.
And it was healthcare overall was up but that area of healthcare was down.
As far as leverage goes as we said as we go through the year we kind of restored that -- put that $1 billion of leverage back.
We front-end loaded this year a little bit.
Certainly the share repurchase activity in the first half we said was going to be about 10 million shares.
I think we ended up right at 10 million shares net.
I think it was about 13-point-something million shares gross.
Yes so I think we're largely on track to where we thought we were going to be.
I don't think we're quite back to the full leverage level on a net basis that we said we're going to probably get to by the end of this year and the beginning of next year.
Okay.
And to follow up on the dispositions comment is there -- could you just generally characterize the characteristics of the businesses that you don't think are no longer attractive to be in the portfolio.
Apart from whether or not you think they will grow or whether they're profitable.
But is there any particular geographic exposure or discipline exposure that they have in common or maybe if you could just generalize it? Just generalize what no longer fits.
They are mostly U.S.-based.
50% of our business is the U.S.
so that make sense.
They're businesses that are maybe generally good businesses but not strategically aligned with the overall portfolio of Omnicom.
So it's either a different client base or they were attempts at greater alignment or greater benefits of being part of the overall portfolio that haven't quite worked out.
That's fair.
Non-core.
And generally the businesses have good management teams.
It's not a matter of a poorly run businesses.
They are generally fairly good businesses smart management teams they're just not a core alignment with I'll say the rest of the Omnicom group.
We can't bring a lot to them and they're not bringing a lot to the rest of the Omnicom family.
Is it safe to say that those are businesses that should have a -- or expected to have a lower gross profile and lower margin profile than the group? And if so I would imagine it's not a very large contributor to your 2012 goal but if you were to fully execute on your $200 million disposition plan what do you think the impact to growth in the margin would be? I wouldn't say -- at this point I wouldn't say that there's any impact.
At this point it's more tidiness and just getting all of our strategic initiatives completed.
I don't see even the disposition of these businesses impacting our margins overall whether they're with us or they're not with us.
So if you had 120 basis points to make up of margin for 2012 the impact of dispositions is negligible? Yes just work through the math a little bit.
If they were -- even if it was a 5% margin difference on say the full $200 million in revenue that's $10 million.
That's a pretty small shift in total.
You said we're striving let's say for 100 120 basis points of margin on $13 billion of revenue.
$10 million doesn't change the answer very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Couple of questions.
John and Randy where do you guys think we are on the U.S.
ad recovery? And the reason I'm asking is when you look at your -- this is the first quarter were you had a difficult comp and you showed acceleration in revenue growth from last quarter even if you strip out Chrysler.
And I look at the drivers of it and branded advertising was up 10% I think you said.
I know that's not a U.S.
number but still that's an impressive leading growth category.
And financial services and auto were the 2 categories that were the strongest I believe looking at your slides which I would sort of describe is kind of cyclical sectors.
So you could look at the quarter and sort of say maybe we're seeing continued acceleration off of the prior year's pullback in major corporate spending or maybe you could look at it the other way and say your business tend to be a little later cycle given just the timing of how contracts work and so this is reflective of what we've seen in the last 12 months.
And maybe that's why John you gave the comments that more moderate in the back half just trying understand how you guys are looking at the results and sort of parse through that question.
Sure I mean well there are a few cyclical things which certainly have impacted the business.
But at this point I think we've cycled through most of that.
Most of our clients are focused on growing their top line and that has been a conversation that's been going on for a good long while.
And certainly is the focus today when we sit down and we speak to our clients.
The media is changing the shift in media is changing where we spend our money and how we provide those services shifts as we go throughout the year.
And we always held the belief and it's a long-term belief and it's served us pretty well that over the long term marketing spend will correlate in some fashion to GDP.
And so we're happy when we exceed our objectives but we're governed by our history and by our beliefs.
And so we expect things to moderate a bit.
And I think especially in the United States we've had a good new business run and what impacts the revenue right now isn't so much what happened this quarter but what's happened over the last several quarters.
Our agencies I think have done a fairly good job on the new business front for a number of quarters now.
As well as expanding the service offering to our clients.
Someone asked the question about social media I extended and talked about new technologies.
Those new technologies are ways for our agencies to provide more value-enhanced services to existing clients.
So I think all of that is helping to lead those growth rates.
It's very difficult for us to know how much of our growth is a rebound off of a maybe what was potentially a lower than normal number in prior periods and how much of it is economic recovery.
And how much of it frankly is growth of services with our clients as opposed to new business.
So all of those things are certainly helping us right now.
As John pointed out we expect over sometime for our revenues to sort of reconnect with GDP plus 100 or 200 basis points.
But that will happen over some period of time.
And Randy if you look at things like social and new technologies should that -- if those are driving a bigger piece of your business over time does that show up as marketing services versus branded advertising? I don't want to read too much into those categories but just trying to think about the buckets here.
No.
So that's what we've been trying to say for people for a long time.
Those aren't disciplines.
They are mediums or tools that all of our agencies are utilizing to provide the types of services that they provide to their clients.
So if it's a shopper marketing firm they're going to be utilizing all of those tools and technologies to execute to their client.
If it's a PR firm they're going to be dealing with social media new technologies new analytics in order to provide better service to their clients.
So it's really embedded in those disciplines for us and it's positively impacting all of our agencies across all of our lines of business.
Okay understood.
So the fact that advertising grew twice as fast as Marketing Services in the quarter we really shouldn't read anything or conclude anything from that? Certainly not from a new technologies perspective.
Okay fair enough.
And then last question if I could squeeze it in here this is about a year since the Google announcement last year when you guys broadened your partnership significantly and I'm just wondering if you had kind of looking back in the last 12 months if that agreement has accelerated your growth or it changed how you've done business or glad you didn't win more business any sort of first year anniversary commentary on that agreement? No we've entered into similar agreements with I guess all the other major competitors to Google in the area of search and display advertising.
And so I would say in the aggregate all of those partnerships are helping us adjust and adapt and improve the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns that we provide to our clients.
But I wouldn't single out any one particular group.
That question comes from the line of Adrien de Saint Hilaire from BNP Paribas.
Just wondering what was the performance of -- you more or less touched on that but of digital advertising in the U.S.
in Q2? And how do you see things in the future knowing that some of your competitors are investing heavily in terms of acquisitions there.
So how do you see the growth of digital in the U.S.? And if you could remind us what's the share of digital in your revenues in the U.S.? Sure.
I continue to hold the view that everything has a digital component associated with it.
And if you look at any of the campaigns which have been worked on for our major clients you'll find that there's a significant digital as well as traditional component to both.
Our attitude all along has been to offer separate specialty services in digital to the extent that clients want to buy it that way.
But our belief is that all of our services are digital and will become digital.
And it's my personal belief 2 years from now you won't even use that word to make a distinction.
But so we don't unless Randy correct me we don't break the numbers out quite that way because everything is moving in that direction.
We don't even -- I mean if you heard my comment just a second ago we talk about new technologies not digital or non-digital because frankly everything as John pointed out is digital in some respects or another.
We see all of our agencies see significant opportunities to utilize new technologies to extend the services that they're providing to clients fundamentally around their same disciplines.
If it's brand advertising or PR or shopper marketing or Field Marketing all of those disciplines are utilizing new technologies to provide better and greater services to their clients.
And it's taking more work more labor hours but they're providing a I don't want to say better but a broader hopefully a more effective job to their clients.
And thank you all for taking the time to listen to our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to now introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our third quarter 2011 earnings call.
We hope everyone's had a chance to review our earnings release.
We've posted to our website both the press release and a presentation covering the information that we'll be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included on Page 1 of our investor presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are present expectations and actual events or results may differ materially.
I would also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
We're going to begin the call with some brief remarks from John Wren.
Following John's remarks we'll review our financial performance for the quarter and then both John and I will be happy to take questions.
Thank you Randy and good morning everyone.
This morning I'd like to give you my perspective on our third quarter performance and share with you our thoughts on the progress against our key initiatives.
Let me start with our performance for the quarter.
The third quarter reflected very strong operating performance including significant organic growth and continued margin improvement.
Organic growth was up 7.2% over the same period of 2010.
Growth was particularly strong in our advertising and CRM businesses and geographically all of our major markets experienced solid organic growth.
This performance is particularly notable given the worsening of economic and capital market conditions since our last earnings call.
We're watching these events carefully to anticipate the impact they may have on our business.
Given this backdrop our agency management teams are balancing effective growth strategies with a continued eye towards controlling their expense structures.
While we remain cautious about the economy we are encouraged by our discussions with our clients.
Marketers remain focused on investing in their brands and differentiating their products and services and are seeking agency partners that can provide innovative ideas that help them navigate an increasingly complex marketing environment.
We believe that our agencies have the best talent in the business and help us to compete more effectively.
During the quarter we also continue to execute on several of our strategic initiatives.
We continue to make solid progress on our portfolio review and other initiatives to improve our margin performance.
Our margins for the quarter reflected continued improvement.
And while there's still work to be done we remain on course towards achieving our goal of returning to 2007 margins by 2012.
Randy will discuss our margin performance in more detail later in the call.
We also continue to execute against our strategic priority of building a deeper presence in rapidly growing markets and disciplines while still growing our business in the developed markets.
During the quarter we closed transactions in India Vietnam and New Zealand and expanded our offerings in healthcare through the acquisition of Synergy in the U.K.
Today over 22% of our revenue is from Asia and Latin America and other rapidly developing markets up from 18.5% this time last year.
While these acquisitions will further solidify our presence in the developing markets our agencies in Asia were once again recognized as leaders for creating groundbreaking award-winning work that delivers value for our clients.
In September Omnicom Group agencies captured the top 2 Network of the Year rankings at the Spike (sic) [Spikes] Asia Advertising Festival in Singapore.
For the second consecutive year DDB was named Network of the Year and BBDO took second.
In addition the DDB Group Singapore and Mudra Communications placed second and third for Agency of the Year.
Omnicom agencies also won 4 Grand Prix.
Turning to some of our digital initiatives our distance-learning digital education program which we discussed at the beginning of the year has begun to be rolled out in the fourth quarter.
We have always recognized that each of our agencies must develop digital skill sets in their respective disciplines and they're meeting these demands extremely well.
The program will further enhance the development of our talents.
Overall we are very pleased with both the financial performance of our business and the progress we've made on our strategic initiatives.
Now let me touch on a few more specific points about our performance during the quarter.
In the U.S.
we saw organic growth of 5.8% versus the third quarter of last year driven by our brand advertising and CRM businesses.
Growth was very strong in the U.K.
and almost all of our agencies had solid organic growth.
In Continental Europe our results were quite positive in spite of the region's sovereign debt problems.
Germany and France experienced solid growth while the Netherlands was negatively impacted by a client loss in that country but that client was retained by another Omnicom agency in the U.S.
We also saw strong performance in Eastern Europe including Russia Poland and the Czech Republic.
Southern Europe which at this point is a small for us was positive with the exception of Greece.
Asia Latin America and the Middle East continue to perform very well all experiencing double-digit growth during the quarter even though Asia continues to be negatively impacted by our performance in Japan.
As these developing markets together with our new investments in these markets continue to grow our business has continued to diversify globally.
Our U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenues were almost evenly split in the third quarter.
Our growth is also coming across the spectrum of the industries we serve.
Revenues are up in every significant industry category with auto technology retail travel and entertainment all having performed particularly well.
We continue to believe the highly diversified nature of our business by geography by discipline and by industry help us to take advantage of growth opportunities and our experience demonstrates that we've been able to maintain greater stability even in more volatile economic environment.
In closing we're very pleased with the operating performance of our business and the progress we're making towards our strategic priorities.
Looking forward our performance will clearly be affected by a number of external factors: The ability of European leaders to deal with the region's sovereign debt problems Washington's ability to foster economic growth and the role that rapidly growing economies in Asia and other parts of the world will play not only economically but politically.
Even with this backdrop we continue to focus on the things that we can control developing and recruiting the best talent to our agencies and delivering innovative ideas for our clients.
Now I'll turn the call over to Randy who'll take you through our financial performance and then we'll both be available for questions.
Thank you John.
Once again it was an excellent quarter for our company.
Our agencies performed very well and were recognized by their clients with more than $1.4 billion in net new business wins this quarter.
In spite of continued uncertainties in the domestic and global economies we continue to report strong organic revenue growth in most of our major markets and in all of our targeted growth markets.
Again this quarter we had positive organic growth across each of the industries that we serve and our agencies also continue to progress in leveraging our people and resources more effectively and managing our costs.
We once again achieved substantial margin improvements this quarter and we continue to track well towards our margin targets that we set for ourselves for 2012.
Now turning to the details of our financial performance.
Combining our very strong organic growth performance with a positive FX impact our year-over-year revenue grew 12.9% bringing revenue for the quarter up to $3.38 billion.
With good cost control our EBITDA increased 19.6% to $397 million; our resulting EBITDA margin was 11.7% which was about a 60 basis point improvement from last year; and our operating income or EBIT increased 18.9% to $373 million.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $31.9 million up $2.1 million from Q3 of last year and up $4.3 million from the second quarter.
The increase versus Q2 was primarily the result of reduced interest income earned on our cash balances and our settlement during the quarter of various fixed to floating interest rate swaps we had in place with respect to our 2016 notes.
While that transaction resulted in a $33 million cash gain that gain will be amortized over the remaining 5-year life of the bonds as a reduction of interest expense.
On the tax front our reported tax rate for the quarter was 34.3% which continues to track to our expected operating rate for 2011.
As a result net income for the quarter increased 16.7% to $203.7 million.
And when combined with the year-over-year share reduction of 7.3% diluted earnings per share in the quarter increased to $0.72 per share or 26.3%.
On Page 3 we take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX.
Our U.S.
dollar exchange rates were fairly volatile during the quarter.
Overall on a year-over-year basis the dollar was weaker versus most of the major currencies that we operate in.
The net result was a positive FX impact on revenue for the quarter of $117.6 million or 3.9%.
Looking ahead if FX rates stay where they are currently in Q4 they will continue to have a positive impact of less than 1% and they would then turn negative in Q1 but again by less than 1%.
Revenue growth from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by about $54 million in the quarter or about 1.8%.
The 2 larger acquisitions we completed in the first quarter Clemenger and Communispace were the most significant drivers of our acquisition growth offset by several dispositions which were primarily in the United States.
We continue to work on a couple of additional dispositions that we anticipate completing by year end or early next year and I'm happy to say the pipeline of potential acquisitions at this point is very strong.
This quarter we completed 4 excellent acquisitions all in international markets and we anticipate completing several more before year end.
With regard to organic growth we had another strong quarter up 7.2% or $215 million.
As I mentioned earlier we continue to see year-over-year growth across every industry sector that we serve.
There appear to be 3 primary drivers of our organic growth.
First for the past year or so our agencies have performed very well on the new business front.
And as I mentioned this quarter net new business wins were again very strong at $1.4 billion.
Second many of our clients have continued to restore their levels of marketing spending after reducing them in late 2008 and in 2009.
And finally our agencies are continuing to expand the scope of the services they're providing their clients to support the many new technologies that are being developed and used by marketers today.
Turning to our mix of business brand advertising accounted for 45% of our revenue and marketing services 55%.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising to organic growth was up a strong 9.1% and marketing services was up 5.7%.
Within the marketing services category CRM had 8.6% organic growth.
Within this sector branding field marketing events and sales promotion all had outstanding performances.
The public relations sector picked up in the quarter with organic growth increasing to 4.2% and specialty communications decreased by 4.8%.
This was primarily the result of declines in our recruitment marketing business and lower client spending with some of our specialty healthcare agencies although overall spending by pharmaceutical and healthcare clients across our networks and disciplines increased about 2.6% in the quarter.
On Slide 5 our geographic mix of business in the quarter was split almost 50-50 between the U.S.
and international markets.
In the United States revenue increased $86 million or 5.3%.
Acquisitions net of dispositions reduced revenue by $7 million.
And organic growth continued to be strong at 5.8% even though we are cycling on strong year-over-year comparables.
International revenue increased $300 million or about 21.8%.
FX increased revenue by $118 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $61 million or 4.4%.
And organic growth while results were mixed by country overall improved to 8.9% in the quarter or $122 million.
Specifically in Asia we had strong performances in China Australia South Korea Singapore and Hong Kong.
We also continue to have very good results in Latin America and the Middle East.
And in Europe results continue to be mixed.
The U.K.
and Russia performed very well.
France and Germany were up modestly.
We also had solid performances in Belgium Poland Sweden and Turkey.
Slide 6 shows our mix of business by industry.
There were no significant changes in our mix of business in the quarter.
And as I previously mentioned again this quarter we experienced positive growth across each of the industry segments that we serve.
The strongest sectors for us in the quarter were autos technology travel and entertainment and financial services with all experiencing very solid year-over-year growth.
Turning to Slide 7 our cash performance year-to-date was in line with our expectations.
We generated approximately $751 million of free cash flow after CapEx and excluding changes in working capital.
Our primary uses of cash year-to-date have been dividends to our common shareholders of $199 million; dividends paid to minority interest shareholders of $70 million; acquisitions including earnout payments net of the proceeds we received from the sale of investments was $327 million; and share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $586 million.
Combined this resulted in a net use of cash year-to-date of approximately $430 million.
Slide 8 shows our current capital structure.
Our net debt position at the end of the quarter was approximately $2.3 billion an increase of about $780 million over the last 12 months.
That increase was driven primarily by our return of capital to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases which for the last 12 months totaled about $1.7 billion.
Gross or total debt at the end of the quarter was $3.2 billion which was effectively unchanged from last year and last quarter.
Our leverage ratio or total debt-to-EBITDA ratio stands at 1.7x while our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is approximately 1.2x and our interest coverage ratio remained very strong at 12x.
I should also mention that last week we amended our bank credit facility extending the term of the facility to October of 2016.
We also increased the size of the facility from $2 billion to $2.5 billion.
And at the same time we were able to reduce the annual fees that we pay as well as the interest rates that we would pay if we were to draw down the facility.
And finally on Slide 9 our return on invested capital and return on equity for the last 12 months increased to 15.7% and 24.5% respectively.
There are several other supplemental slides included in the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point I'm going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from the line of Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
I have couple of things I'd like to ask please.
First of all in emerging markets the growth continues to accelerate.
We've seen some good numbers from consumer companies reporting in China.
I just wonder if you could talk about if the fundamental growth just continues to accelerate or are you actually getting some nice market share gains in countries like China? Secondly could you please talk about your margin improvements? Is it possible to break out how much of the 60 points increase was due to some of the specific efficiency moves you've made recently and how much is really due to fundamental growth? In emerging markets I think we're benefiting at the moment by both.
We are expanding -- in markets we're growing our presence.
And as a result we're regaining both local clients but more importantly we're gaining additional assignments with clients that we have existing relationships in other parts of the world.
That against the backdrop of it's an expanding market.
With respect to your second question on margin improvement -- for the revenue this is part of an overall effort on the part of the company so...
Well first of all the answer is no there is no way for us to break out how much of the improvement is a result of cost savings initiatives as opposed to efficiencies which this is really based on increased utilization at each of the individual agencies.
We're probably somewhat indifferent to where the results are coming from.
We're certainly looking for efficiencies on a continuous basis.
We're also looking to improve the utilization rates at every one of our agencies.
So we'll probably leave it at that.
And our next question's from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First did you see any changes as the quarter progressed? Any notable changes in September versus the previous 2 months? And anything is there anything you're seeing when you look in the fourth quarter that would imply a change I guess what you saw in the third quarter? We didn't see any great variance between any of the months in the quarter in response to your first question.
Right now based upon the information that we have business is still holding up people are still confident in marketing.
We listen to the news though every day as everyone else does and so we remain optimistic but cautious.
We are -- it is worth noting we are cycling on a different comp in the fourth quarter of last year.
If people remember last year in the fourth quarter we had a significant step-up in organic growth versus the prior couple of quarters.
So we have to take that into consideration thinking about the year-over-year growth in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And when you talk to your clients I mean usually in sort of November December I would assume you get a little bit of sense how budgets are starting to get formed for the following year 2012.
Do you think that'll still be the case or do you think the visibility will be pushed out a bit and advertisers may want to see how the year ends up the holiday season before they really get a better sense of what they're spending next year? It's too early to tell.
I mean at this point we're progressing talking to people and that's a rather fluid conversation once you get into those months.
A lot has to do with the macroeconomic backdrop in which you're having the conversations.
And so we're yet to have them.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just last question on the use of cash.
I know Randy you mentioned some acquisitions you have to complete by the end of the year.
Can you just talk a bit about how you see the buyback? I mean you guys are in obviously such a strong cash position the buy back was less aggressive in the third quarter as it had been versus the first half.
I guess how do you prioritize that going forward? Well we'll take it month by month.
We'll see how the acquisitions go.
But last year going I guess probably in the fourth quarter going into fourth quarter we talked about utilizing the deleveraging that we had done in 2009 we said that we are going to spend about $1 billion of additional free cash flow between the fourth quarter of last year and 2011.
We're basically there.
At this point in time we spent about $1 billion after free cash flow between the fourth quarter of '10 and the first 3 quarters of '11.
So now we have a conversation with our Board evaluate our acquisition opportunities et cetera and we'll go from here.
Research Division</strong> But I guess generally you would still -- the buyback was sort of longer term still be a priority in terms of use of cash even though if you can't quantify the amount right now.
Is that right? Is that fair? Absolutely.
And you can tell from our track record over the past 12 months between dividends and share repurchases we've returned to shareholders about $1.7 billion.
We have a question from the line of Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So after the good progress you made on the margins in this particular quarter can you give us a sense for your expectations for how that balances up between what we might see for the balance of 2011 and for 2012? And maybe more importantly what's your level of confidence that you can get to your 2007 target? I think it's roughly 13.4% in an environment of where organic revenue growth is hard to come by.
At this point we will -- I'm not comfortable making a prediction for the fourth quarter.
But at this point for 2012 for the full year we're still pretty confident that we're going to hit our objectives of getting back to that 2007 level based upon what we know today and the actions that we've taken up until today.
I think that's right.
I think we're tracking on plan and I think we're doing -- I think our agencies have done extremely good job in 2011.
In addition to the results that they've achieved in 2011 they've laid the groundwork for making further progress in 2012.
So I don't -- I haven't seen anything that would change our confidence levels about achieving those objectives for the full year of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Are we at a point now where the agencies are implementing the actions that were already planned and taken and we'll start to see the benefits accrue in coming quarters? Or are there still initiatives and programs yet to be implemented that could then have a future impact once they start to accrue? The answer is yes.
The good news about Omnicom is we're a large number of small numbers.
There are very large number of initiatives that are going on all the time some are in later stages and some are in very new stages.
And with the number of innovative people that we have throughout our agencies new ideas are coming up continuously to keep the progress going forward.
So yes to both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you willing to share a little detail within the operating expense line just maybe in terms of some of the numbers we tend to focus on from quarter-to-quarter in terms of severance and incentives any incremental severance deltas between the third quarter of last year that are worth calling out or in severance comp as well? I don't know that it's worth calling out.
Severance was up fairly significantly this quarter versus last year this quarter.
We tend not to call those things out too often.
But I think right now overall we're tracking very well.
And we have a question from the line of William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about international growth.
The quarter was really strong.
Was just wondering if there was anything unusual that contributed to that and just curious what you see for Q4 for international? There wasn't anything terribly unusual.
It's part of an overall effort.
As Randy said I think in the call the growth is really the result of new business the result of growth of our existing clients.
And oftentimes it's mitigating against the loss of clients as well.
So we're seeing pretty strong growth across the board except for a couple of markets that haven't fully recovered like Japan.
Having said that the fourth quarter we're on track as we sit here today.
We do this every third quarter call.
Just to remind you that there's always a bit of revenue in the fourth quarter that we can't predict because of the way people spend and finish up their budgets and that doesn't really become obvious to us until sometime in mid-November.
But we don't see anything negative today other than macro headlines and that hasn't yet gotten reflected in clients' spending habits.
Part of what we're also seeing in the international markets we pointed this out really at the end of 2010 that of what we expected was going to happen in 2011.
The emerging markets have continued to be very strong growers.
They were -- they had very strong growth last year as well.
Some of the other markets that were fairly significantly negative last year have come back to neutral to I'll say marginally positive.
That's allowing the faster-growing emerging markets to drive the overall international number that much more their positive impact being felt more regularly.
I think very few markets in Europe were negative this quarter.
That certainly wasn't the case in 2010.
Research Division</strong> And could you also just talk about euro markets? Have you really seen much change in the tone of business from Q3 to 4? Nothing measurable at the moment.
Obviously given the headline risks of what's going on in those marketplaces we watch it every day and it's subject to change every day.
But based on what we know right now we're simply cautious about it.
Research Division</strong> And Randy talked a bit about severance.
I think you characterized it as being up significantly in Q3.
Was just kind of wondering if you could maybe put a little bit more color around that.
Is it that you're going into motion on cost cuts because you're seeing anything or is it just that you're managing tighter given some of the risks in the world today? I think we've been managing -- trying to manage very tightly all year.
As I pointed out there's a number of initiatives that have been going on in various stages of completion in various markets around the world.
We're comparing 2 numbers that are 12 months apart so we're comparing -- I say severance was up significantly.
That's Q3 of this year versus Q4 of last year.
It's really a matter what was happening in each of those quarters.
Again we're constantly taking different actions at different points of time.
And the part of the reason we don't generally break them out is because it's just -- many times it's just timing.
And we have a question from the line of Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have 3.
Let me follow up first on the project spending in the fourth quarter.
I think John you just mentioned by mid-November you have a handle on kind of work comes through.
Can you remind us how big you guys think that discretionary element could be for the fourth quarter? Yes.
Normally it's around -- historically based it's $200 million to $300 million.
Research Division</strong> And then if you look at the U.K.
results specifically the growth there is pretty exceptional.
I mean outside of Google nothing grows as fast the U.K.
media.
So it's pretty impressive.
And the question would be Randy mentioned there are 3 different drivers for your business new business wins budget restored and services expanded.
So I wondered if you spent any time looking at the U.K.
and trying to figure out what's driving those results if you look at them in those 3 different descriptions that Randy just put out there? All 3? Research Division</strong> All 3.
Which is certainly in the U.K.
market that's the case.
Yes which is fair.
I mean there's a couple of new business wins in there as well but...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You guys probably don't spend time looking at it but do you think the market's growing anywhere near that fast or this is a good share gain story for you guys? No I think that's our performance in the market.
I don't think it's reflective necessarily of the U.K.
GDP.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last would be specialty.
I mean over the years I know recruitment's been something you guys have called out in the past.
How much -- how big is recruitment now within the specialty mix? And what's the status of that? Is that a potential disposal? And then healthcare.
Give us some color on the healthcare line specially what's going on there in detail? There I think we've seen -- and healthcare is the largest sector in specialty.
Those are our specialty healthcare agencies.
As I pointed out healthcare overall was up 2.5% 2.6% in the quarter.
So the overall category's doing fine.
I think we're seeing or felt in this quarter some spending shifts from some of our specialty agencies maybe into some of our I'll say more traditional agencies or network agencies.
Yes.
And slightly in healthcare in terms of what you're seeing in the quarter the effect of 1 or 2 losses that some of our specialty agencies suffered earlier in the year impacting the numbers for the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are there -- on the recruitment concept how much is left to go? How big is that for your overall annual revenues? And what's the status of that as a potential disposal? It's a little more than $100 million of annual revenue and we'll probably leave it at that.
We have a question from the line of Craig Huber with Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> My first question is a housekeeping question.
How many shares did you guys buy back in the quarter please? Hold on 1 second.
The number is close by.
They just have to get it.
Running for numbers.
1 302 000.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then my other question on the U.K.
there is obviously very strong growth has been talked about here.
Do you think that sustainable here in the fourth quarter or is it just too early to tell? I'm asking in light of just the real difficult economic conditions over there? This was the U.K.
growth? LLC</strong> Yes.
It's really too early to tell.
I mean we -- I've said this for a number of years.
When we start looking at individual country markets and we're looking at year-over-year quarter-over-quarter growth rates some relatively small movements can adjust those numbers pretty significantly.
John pointed out the growth in the U.K.
market isn't that the U.K.
economy is growing that significantly faster than everywhere else in the world.
It's our agencies within the market have done a very good job on new business front.
Some of that new business has happened at varying times so when it's going to cycle is hard to say.
It could be specific client spending or client actions.
Most of this will tend to average out over time.
Fortunately our agencies in the U.K.
are extremely strong and are performing very well at this point.
LLC</strong> Your guys' margin goal for 2012 is 13.4% EBITDA margin.
You expressed high confidence of getting there several times.
I'm just wondering what sort of -- in your mind what sort of minimum organic revenue growth you would need in order get to 13.4%? In other words do you think you could get there if you got say 3% organic revenue growth next year? I think so.
I mean the higher the organic revenue growth obviously will be a little bit easier but it's really dependent upon where that organic revenue growth is coming from.
We would probably be the happiest if we had uniform organic revenue growth everywhere and a stabilized to improving economy globally.
We're probably not going to be lucky enough to have that but we can always I guess wish for it.
I think our agencies again are doing extremely good job at controlling their costs and starting a number of initiatives that are driving their efficiencies.
We're pretty confident that if the market or the economies tend to continue to make positive progress that we're going to be able to achieve those objectives.
If for some reason there's a significant double dip that's going to be much more difficult.
That's not what we're expecting to occur though.
LLC</strong> And then lastly as you think forward here in the organic revenue growth front the discussions you guys are having with your client's ongoing basis here given how bad marketing advertising budgets were slashed 2008 2009 is there a general sense among your clients that they probably cut too severely in 2008 2009? And then if the economy did rollover here hard going forward here that they likely would not cut as severely as they did in '08 '09 given the long-term implication it would mean to their brands in the marketplace? I don't think I could categorize specific conversations the way you just did.
In the aggregate every company is trying to be nimble every company is trying to do it better cheaper faster.
2008 at this point 2009 was a long time ago.
Circumstances this time around I think they're slightly different than what they were then and so the solutions are going to be different.
But we haven't have -- I haven't had conversations other than individual conversations that would rise to the level of being able to comment on your comment.
And there's a question from the line of James Dix with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Randy even after you cautioned about analyzing quarterly growth by country I will -- permit me this one transgression.
Just on the U.S.
if we look at your growth organically kind of on a 2-year basis so smoothing for the big surge you got in the fourth quarter last year any reason to think that you're tracking for much different growth in the fourth versus the third? And then secondly in the U.K.
who are you winning the share from broadly in that market? And then just more generally geographically has the pace of new business activity changed materially over the last quarter? And then I just want a follow-up on that leverage.
First questions first.
Since every fourth quarter there is that $300 million to $400 million.
And since over -- slightly over 50% of our businesses is in the U.S.
believe me whether when and how that comes in has an impact on whether you're at 5.8% or 5.7% organic growth we don't get that granular at this point in our planning.
Right.
mathematically on your -- to your analysis which I've had this conversation with a number of investors I'm not 100% sure that I buy into the 2-year analysis but I know some of you guys do.
Our fourth quarter organic growth in the U.S.
last year was very strong.
If the 2-year analysis worked if our underlying performance was the same the year-over-year measured performance the sequential performance of the agency stayed the same and everything is kind of moved along from third quarter to fourth quarter the year-over-year measurement would be down; if that's what you're addressing.
If the year-over-year measurement stays the same it would mean an equally large organic growth in the fourth quarter to last year's fourth quarter.
I don't suspect that will be the case.
Last year in the fourth quarter I think more of that project revenue returned to normal and we saw a fairly large step-up from Q3 to Q4 in organic growth.
I don't think we'll see that year-over-year step-up certainly in the fourth quarter this year.
As you do your 2-year analysis on a year-over-year basis it should step down a little bit if the actual performance stays in line with what we've just seen in Q3.
And then when you get into specific countries I mean this quarter our performance was $3.4 billion or approximately $10 million changes the specific organic growth of a particular country.
I mean that's how granular the numbers get.
Yes I really don't believe the 2-year analysis works as we get to smaller and smaller markets.
I think when you get -- the U.S.
is obviously a very large market and it's very diversified so maybe that 2-year analysis works here.
As we move down further and further John pointed out in his comments Netherlands.
So you get a client movement in the Netherlands it can be a very significant impact on the Netherlands that has nothing to do with the economy in the Netherlands.
That's a global account that was being run out of the Netherlands that got moved to another one of our markets that in the market they got move to that account change wasn't big enough to really move the needle.
But in the Netherlands there was very much big enough to move the needle especially on a quarter-to-quarter year-over-year kind of basis.
So again I'm not 100% sure the 2-year analysis works.
I'm almost positive it doesn't work in the smaller market analysis.
It may make some sense in a market that's big enough like the United States.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the share gains in the U.K.
and kind of the pace of new business.
And then my follow-up on leverage was just do you have a sense compared to 2008 2009 that you'd be comfortable being at a higher level of leverage over the next year or so than you were back then? I think we said that we are going to get back to the dollar amount of leverage that we had in sort of the 2008 time frame.
We levered the company about $1 billion in 2009.
We -- through the first 3 quarters of 2010 we basically spent our free cash as we normally do between dividends acquisitions and share repurchases then we stated I believe it was sometime in the fourth quarter of 2010 that we would put that $1 billion of a leverage back in place.
We've largely done that at this point.
From here on out we have constant conversations with our Board of Directors and we're going to be constantly evaluating I'll say our leverage positions relative to our operating performance in the backdrop of the marketplace.
I don't think we have a perspective that we're going to increase leverage.
I certainly don't think we're going to be increasing leverage in a dramatic way.
We are very confident with the stability of our business.
The operations performed extremely well even in the 2009 time frame so I think we feel very comfortable where we're at and we'll continue to evaluate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just on the share shifts who you think you're winning share from in the pace of new business activity is that changing? We don't know a single individual company I can target and say we're winning share from X-Y-Zed.
New business the way it works in the industry is you're invited and you can't trigger accounts putting in having accounts put into review.
So we're -- it's a pretty reactive type of process and then you try to do the best as you can.
Where you are proactive is in saving accounts and preventing accounts that you already service from going into review.
So it's a very fluid quarter-to-quarter situation and it depends on individual advertisers electing to review part of their businesses.
And in some respect it's a long-term game that the proactive -- the most proactive piece that our agencies do is the development of their talent.
We certainly feel that we have the best agencies in the industry in almost every country.
But it's the focus on that talent development that on a long-term basis allows us to hopefully continuously win share and become a better and bigger partner to our clients.
We have a time for maybe one more question.
Very good.
That is from the line of Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
My question's on just a smaller area of business but one that's been getting a lot of attention is the agency trading desk Accuen and maybe just tell us how business is accelerating there? And then just may be 2 specific questions on hiring sort of the challenges and what you're seeing there? And then secondly if whether or not you're working with clients to collect sort of a specialized group of technologies and customizing it per client or whether there's more of a standard technology stack that you intend to use there? There's a couple of questions there.
If I get some of them wrong please correct me.
The whole digital transformation that's going on in media is for the most part it's all organic.
It's 100%.
It's been greenfield from the time they were started probably 18 months ago.
We work with a lot of different technology partners and we're very happy.
I'm very happy with the growth and the progress that we've made.
And I only see that area and those capabilities as expanding as we go forward especially as you -- as digital inventory video bunch of other things become available.
It just opens up new avenues for clients to intelligently deploy and plan to spend their money.
So we're tracking very well and I'm very pleased with our progress.
That was the first question.
And I'm sorry somewhere on the third question I'm not sure I'm going to be clear so could you repeat them? Maybe just some specifics on hiring there.
There's some obviously some highly technical skills involved.
And then secondly on whether or not you are building or customize solutions for clients or whether there's more of a standard set of technologies that you use across the client base? Well I but the people that are responsible are aggressively hiring people with all sorts of talent and we're finding that all the expansion that we do in this area pays for itself very very quickly.
We've expanded our capabilities which were started in -- were primarily based in the U.S.
to Asia in the last 7 or 8 weeks I think.
We've got it up and running.
And there are expansion plans going on in Europe as well.
So there's hiring in all 3 of those places.
Now the way we're getting to technological solutions is really a combination of us developing platforms which work across quite a number of clients and then specifically working with partners to create solutions which in part are customized for specific clients.
Also experience plays a big role there.
This is a fairly new area for everyone.
It's really been around for maybe it's a couple of years.
We're also extending the spot that we're looking for talent bringing in a range of expertise from mathematicians and data analysts and technologists as well as people that have experience in marketing and new technology medias.
And as far as custom technology versus standard platforms I think with a lot of things with Omnicom the answer is both.
We're certainly developing a platform that allows us to be flexible around specific client needs.
And there's an awful lot of learning that is going on with each client engagement and the experience that our people are getting.
I think that was about all the time we have.
So thank you all very much for taking the time to listen to our call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
And you may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to now introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our fourth quarter 2011 earnings call.
We hope everyone's had a chance to review our earnings release.
We've posted to our website both the press release and the presentation covering the information that we'll be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
But before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included on Page 1 of our Investor Presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are of present expectations and actual events or results may differ materially.
I'd also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find a reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
We're going to begin the call with some brief remarks from John Wren.
And following John's remarks we'll review our financial information for the quarter and then both John and I will be happy to take questions.
Good morning.
I'm pleased to speak to you this morning about our latest business results the progress we've made in 2011 against our key strategic initiatives and my thoughts for 2012.
Thanks to an exceptional list of clients and the commitments talent and creativity of our people we have generated very strong results throughout 2011 and we end the year extremely well positioned for future growth.
We recognize the global economy is operating in 3 speeds.
As the European downturn continues to unfold it's impact for now is limited to Europe.
Despite these problems we continue to see significant opportunities for growth.
Amidst the uncertainty we continue to focus on the things we at Omnicom can control.
First let me speak about the fourth quarter in 2011.
Organic growth in the fourth quarter was up 5.2%.
This reflected strong performance even in the face of difficult year-over-year comps.
Our fourth quarter was driven by strong results across both disciplines and markets with the notable exception of euro markets where growth was negative for the quarter.
For the full year organic growth was 6.1%.
In the quarter we continue to expand our presence in key emerging markets.
We announced the acquisition of a majority stake in the Mudra group one of India's leading integrated marketing communication companies and we completed transactions in Turkey and South Africa.
These transactions helped us build our capabilities and expand our base of talent in these key markets.
During 2011 we also accelerated our investments in digital social mobile and analytics across the networks.
We continue to pursue a multipronged strategy built around the core idea that all of our agencies must have strong digital capabilities to compete in the future.
As a result we are helping in pushing our agencies where needed to continue to accelerate the expansion of their digital expertise.
We're also consolidating our expertise and knowledge in technology where appropriate.
Finally we have acquired new capabilities to complement our existing skill sets.
These investments are helping us to deliver innovative and integrated solutions for our clients and to expand our business into new areas.
As one example of this integration I'd like to highlight the Bringing Happiness Home campaign we just did for PepsiCo in China for the Chinese new year.
It featured 3 of PepsiCo's strongest brands Pepsi Lay's and Tropicana and was delivered on TV online in the store and at a home.
Two weeks into the campaign the results have been outstanding.
The 10-minute mini movie at the center of the campaign has become China's #1 online video and has been viewed more than 100 million times.
That is what you call earned media.
Our agencies remain focused on delivering value for our clients and in promoting strong cultures built around talented and creative people who help us win in the market every day.
You've all heard me say this before in the battle between culture and strategy culture eats strategy for breakfast every time.
Driven by their creative cultures Omnicom's agencies together with their clients were recognized around the world for their work in 2011.
While I can't mention all of the awards I'd like to highlight a few.
BBDO and DDB finished #1 and #2 in the Gunn Report's 2011 Most Awarded Agency Networks in the World.
It was BBDO's sixth consecutive first-place finish and DDB's third consecutive second-place finish.
BBDO was named 2011 Global Agency of the Year by both Adweek and Campaign magazines and for the fifth year in a row BBDO topped The Big Won.
OMG was named Global Media Agency of the Year by Adweek and Media Agency of the Year by Ad Age.
TBWA Hakuhodo was named 2011 International Agency of the Year by Ad Age.
Ketchum was awarded the International Consultancy of the Year honor by PRWeek and LatinWorks was named Ad Agency (sic) [Ad Age] Multicultural Agency of the Year.
I want to personally congratulate all of our agencies for their outstanding work in 2011.
Finally the strategic review of our portfolio of agencies together with other steps we took during 2011 to improve our operation resulted in significant progress towards our margin goal during the year.
Randy will provide more detail on the specifics of our performance in the call.
However in 2012 we expect to achieve our goal of restoring margins to the 2007 level.
Now let me highlight a few key areas around our fourth quarter and 2011 performance.
By region across our businesses and geographies we saw a continued and often accelerating growth in the fourth quarter.
Randy will take you through the details.
Looking at our performance by industry we continue to experience growth across almost all our segments.
Revenue during the quarter was particularly strong in auto consumer products financial services and retail while only a couple of areas had negative performance healthcare pharmaceuticals and travel and entertainment.
For the year all of our industry groups had positive organic growth.
On the new business front we continue to see strong client retention rates expansion of existing relationships and meaningful new business wins.
In the quarter we generated in excess of $1 billion in net new business bringing our total for the year to almost $4.5 billion.
Before turning to 2012 I'd like to point out a few measures that I think captured the value we have created for shareholders.
First our full year 2011 net income increased over 15% and our EPS increased over 23%.
Second we again generated over $1 billion in free cash flow and taken together through share buybacks and dividends we returned over $1 billion to shareholders in 2011.
Last week we also increased our dividend by 20%.
Since 2009 we've doubled our dividend per share.
And finally our balance sheet remains extremely strong providing us the flexibility to pursue attractive investments as they arise.
We believe our results reflect the highly diversified nature of our business by geography by discipline and by client.
All of these attributes allow us to take advantage of opportunities in fast-growing areas while helping us to maintain greater stability in volatile economic environments.
As we look to 2012 we remain focused on returning our margins to 2007 levels and we firmly believe that we will hit our targets.
But that's not the end of the story.
We'll continue to grow and strengthen our business performance in 2013 and beyond.
With many of the actions necessary to achieve our margin goal significantly complete we will turn a greater focus to accelerating growth.
As I previously mentioned I think it is clear to everyone that we are operating in a world with 3 distinct speeds and our efforts will be focused in the regions and areas where growth opportunities are most attractive.
Our core strategies to achieve growth remain the same.
We believe that 2011 was the year in which the historical distinction between so-called traditional and digital media disappeared.
As we had always said it would at least with respect to the services we provide our clients.
Everything we do has a digital component to it and growth of mobile and IPTV is accelerating.
As one of our clients put it we have moved from an era of digital marketing to one of marketing in a digital world.
This is a world in which everything is connected and everything's always on.
A world where new technologies emerge and disappear on an ever shorter cycle.
In this world we believe that our competitive position is advanced by maintaining the flexibility to adapt fast to change by owning only those capabilities that allow us to add greatest value and developing mutually beneficial partnerships with companies and technologies even those which are not yet proven.
Our financial strength and our open-source approach to technology gives us the flexibility we need to succeed and limit the need to protect outdated services and platforms.
We believe we can add the greatest value to our clients by helping identify and find the most valuable audience segments understanding their motivation and purchase behaviors and then leveraging our creative strength to deliver compelling experiences to them at the most appropriate moments and in a cost-efficient way.
As I mentioned our focus is not to own data or platforms but on using the best data and platforms intelligently and on leveraging the many partnerships we have with media technology data and research companies to ensure we are maintaining access to the latest innovations and information in the marketplace.
We continue to invest in digital capabilities and expert people to build and expand our leadership in emerging service areas and we are focused on taking advantage of the continued shift to a more interconnected activities by consumers and businesses as they extend further into social and mobile platforms.
We believe the world will become increasingly more complex and our partnership approach versus making bets on specific digital platforms will allow us to adapt our services to new technologies and will help us seamlessly integrate digital within our clients' overall marketing strategies.
In 2012 we also plan to further expand our footprint in developing markets.
Over the past few years the percentage of our business generated from markets other than the U.S.
U.K.
and euro currency markets has grown significantly and now represents over 22% of our business compared to 16.6% in 2009.
Our investments in digital and in developing markets will help us deepen and extend client relationships.
Our top priority is to constantly challenge ourselves to add value to our incredible roster of clients.
None of these would be possible without the talented creative and dedicated people at our agencies around the world.
We continue to be a company that believes that culture and challenge are the essential ingredients for success and recognize that by investing in the training development and retention of our employees we can drive long-term growth for the company.
Finally as I look across our agency networks and talk to many of our leaders I see more and more examples of integration and collaboration that drives client satisfaction.
We continue to work to bring the best that we can offer to our clients across our network and to leverage our scale and specialization for their benefit.
We expect more of that in 2012.
I'll now turn the call back to Randy who will take you through the numbers.
Thank you John.
Now turning to the details of our financial performance.
Revenue for the quarter was up 7.4% to $3.85 billion again exceeding our expectations due to strong operating performance of many of our agencies.
Revenue for the full year came in up 10.6% at $13.87 billion.
The strong revenue performance in the quarter combined with our continuing emphasis on cost control resulted in EBITA of $511 million up 11.2%.
The EBITA margin for the quarter was on target at 13.3% which was a year-over-year increase of about 50 basis points.
For the full year EBITA increased 15.1% to $1.76 billion and our EBITA margin increased 50 basis points to 12.7%.
We did take a number of cost actions this year including some 35 dispositions as well as severance actions costing more than $200 million.
As a result although not without challenges we believe we're on track to achieve our previously stated target of 13.4% EBITA margins for full year 2012.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $30.3 million down about $1.8 million from Q4 of last year and down about $1.6 million from the third quarter.
The decrease versus Q3 was primarily the result of better cash management resulting in increased interest income earned on our foreign cash balances.
For the year net interest expense was up $12.3 million primarily related to the full year impact of interests on the 10-year notes we issued in the middle of 2010.
That increase was partially offset by increased interest income earned on our cash balances.
On the tax front our reported tax rate for the quarter was 34.3% and we expect our operating rate for 2012 to continue to be around 34%.
Also worth noting our income from equity method investments decreased about $3.5 million and our minority interest increased about $3.3 million in the quarter.
While there were a number of individual increases and decreases in these accounts the primary driver for both numbers was our acquisition in the first quarter of an additional interest in the Clemenger Group changing it from an affiliate to a consolidated subsidiary with a 26% minority interest.
As a result of all of that our net income for the quarter increased a very solid 10.3% to $272 million.
And for EPS the 10.3% increase in net income combined with a year-over-year share reduction of about 5% resulted in diluted earnings per share increasing 15.7% to $0.96 we believe a very solid quarter and a good finish to the year.
And with the significant actions taken this year we believe we're well positioned going into 2012 for another successful year.
On Page 3 we take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX.
Over the course of the quarter the U.S.
dollar strengthened against many of our major currencies including the euro and the pound which on a year-over-year basis resulted in FX adding only about $1 million to revenue this quarter.
Looking ahead if rates stay where they are we expect FX to be negative by about 1.25% in Q1 and about 1.5% for the full year 2012.
However FX rates have been pretty volatile recently.
So we can't be certain how much they will change.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $80 million in the quarter or about 2.2%.
The more significant acquisitions this year include the Clemenger Group and Communispace which we completed early in the year and then Mudra Marina Maher and Medina/Turgul in Turkey late in the year.
And as I mentioned previously we completed a number of small dispositions during the year mostly in United States.
With regard to organic growth we had another very strong quarter well ahead of expectations up 5.2% or $185 million.
For the full year organic growth of 6.1% was driven by a combination of factors.
First very strong new business wins; also a rebound in spending by many clients; continued double-digit growth in the developing markets; and most importantly our agencies continuing to expand their capabilities and service offerings utilizing the many new technologies and communication mediums that are being developed in the marketplace.
Turning to our mix of business.
Brand advertising accounted for 47.5% of our revenue and marketing and services 52.5%.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising to organic growth was 7.3% while marketing services was up 3.3%.
Within the marketing and services area CRM had 6% organic growth.
And within this sector sales promotion branding events and field marketing all had very strong performances in the quarter.
Public relations was marginally positive and specialty communications decreased 5.1%.
This was primarily the result of continuing declines in our recruitment marketing business and mixed performance in our healthcare businesses with generally lower spending by a number of our pharma clients.
On Slide 5 our geographic mix of business in the quarter was split just about 50-50 between the United States and the international markets.
In the United States revenue increased $92 million or 5%.
Acquisitions net of dispositions reduced revenue by $4.5 million and organic growth continued to be strong at 5.3% even though we cycled on very strong year-over-year comparables.
International revenue increased $174 million or about 9.9%.
As I mentioned FX was effectively neutral increasing revenue by just under $1 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $84.5 million or about 4.8% and organic growth our results were mixed by country overall increased 5% in the quarter or $88 million.
Specifically in Asia we had very strong performances in Australia India Singapore and China while Japan was flat and Korea was marginally negative.
We continue to have good results in Latin America most notably in Brazil and Chile.
We also had a strong performance in South Africa.
In Europe results continue to be mixed.
The U.K.
and Russia performed very well while France and Germany were basically flat.
In southern Europe results again were very mixed with good results in both Spain and Portugal while Ireland and Italy were marginally negative and as you would expect Greece had a difficult quarter.
Slide 6 shows our mix of business by industry.
As you can see we had growth in most industry sectors this quarter with strong growth in autos consumer products retail financial services and telecom and declines in pharma and travel and entertainment.
The differences by sector were driven by a combination of business wins and losses and specific industry performance.
Turning to Slide 7.
Our year-end cash performance was in line with our expectations.
We generated about $1.25 billion of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
Our primary uses of cash were: capital expenditures of $186 million; acquisitions including earnout payments net of proceeds received from the sale of investments of $428 million; dividends to common shareholders of $269 million; dividends paid to minority interest shareholders of $100 million; and share repurchases net of proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans; totaled $701 million.
All in we returned about $1 billion this year to our shareholders between dividends and share repurchases.
And combined this resulted in a net use of cash of approximately $438 million.
Also for anyone who missed the announcement we recently increased our dividend again this year by 20%.
So for 2012 we expect the dividend to be $0.30 per share per quarter.
To better show the great cash flow characteristics of our business we've added Slide 8 which details the cumulative cash the company has returned to shareholders over the past 10 years from 2002 through 2011.
There are a few different lines on the chart.
The top line is our cumulative net income over the period which totaled a little more than $8.1 billion.
The bottom 2 lines show the cumulative dividends paid and accumulative net share repurchases over that same period.
The third line shows the combined cumulative cash returned to shareholders.
In total just over $7.7 billion or about 95% of our cumulative net income for that period was returned to shareholders.
It's also worth noting that over the same 10-year period the company's revenue and net income both basically doubled from $6.9 billion to $13.9 billion in revenue this year and from $455 million to $953 million of net income.
Slide 9 shows our current capital structure.
Our net debt position at the end of the quarter was approximately $1.4 billion an increase of about $460 million.
As the prior slide pointed out the year-over-year increase was driven primarily by a return of about $1 billion to shareholders through the combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Our leverage ratio or total debt-to-EBITDA ratio stands at 1.6x while our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is below 1 at 0.7x.
And our interest coverage ratio remain very strong at 12.3x.
Finally on Slide 10 we continue to successfully build the company through a combination of prudently priced acquisitions and well focused internal development.
As a result both the return on invested capital and return on equity continue to improve reaching 18.8% and 26.9% respectively this year.
There are several other supplemental slides included in the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point I'm going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of James Dix from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
I guess when you look at your progress towards your EBITA margin target for the year is there any particular seasonality that you think we should be thinking about by quarter? I know that can move around but I'm just thinking in particular about the repositioning charges which you took which I think had some seasonality.
I'm just wondering if there was any impact by season that we should be thinking about.
And then secondly when you look at your outlook for growth by geographic region and in particular Europe is there any particular color you can provide on what you're expecting? I mean do you really expect much growth in particular from the Eurozone this year? This seasonality -- we do have seasonality across the different quarters.
I think our improvement probably a little bit back-half weighted and we'll probably track our normal seasonality but I don't -- it shouldn't be a lot of back-half weighted.
As far as geographic growth I think there's a number of things to keep in mind.
First of all individual agency performance really supersedes the economy.
If an agency goes out and through its innovation and creativity can grow its relationships with its existing clients find new clients then the economic backdrop while it's always a factor is really overwhelmed by the performance of the agency.
So we're certainly looking to all of our agencies to use their creativity and energy to build their businesses I'll say despite the economies.
The other thing I think that's important to keep in mind is that a large percentage of our client base are multinational clients.
So they are connected.
The economies around the world are linked up through those individual clients.
The only thing I'd add to that is depending on the day that you wake up Europe is or isn't in the headlines and we watch it as closely as everybody else does.
And our statement that we're looking to similar growth is really reflective of that.
We know where we believe we will grow.
We know what markets are growing at the present time that are not facing austerity and not facing the headlines every day.
So we have very modest expectations across Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Randy can you talk about how you're thinking about share repurchases this year? Obviously you upped the dividend last week.
Should we expect the buyback to approach $1 billion again? And is the hope that acquisitions stay in that $400 million range for the year? No I don't think buybacks will approach $1 billion.
We'll see.
We made a commitment at the end of 2010 to between 2010 and 2011 put that $1 billion of leverage back.
If people recall in 2009 we delevered the company about $1 billion.
So we decided at the end of '10 and '11 to put that back.
So last year's share repurchases ended up where we overspent our free cash flow by about $450 million.
We've basically committed to spending all of our free cash flow on the combination of dividends acquisitions and share repurchases.
We haven't committed to go past that.
Research Division</strong> And also quickly can you speak to the project business during the quarter? What was the impact to organic? You mean the fourth quarter? Yes.
I think the quarter came in basically as we expected a little bit of a higher organic growth than we expected.
But I think from a project standpoint it was pretty much on track and kind of a normal year.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just to -- first a question to follow up I think on your earlier comment about the outlook in Europe.
Would you say that the European performance again it's more of the Eurozone not U.K.
was relatively stable throughout the quarter and into what you're seeing so far into Q1? Or was there any notable change that might give us a bit more insight and how sort of this is progressing so far -- or into 2012? I'd characterize it as stable.
When you look at the markets that declined and then the underlying reasons some of them that were economic and some of them -- some of the declines were cycling out of changes in clients.
Netherlands comes up in particular where we lost an account that is headquartered in The Netherlands.
We won it back here in the United States.
That had a slight impact.
But Europe is a day-by-day event where the conversation across the continent is austerity.
So we can't be as clear or have as greater vision as we've had in the past until they get through the sovereign debt crisis.
Research Division</strong> And then on the budget for -- again more globally now and for U.S.
as well.
On the budgets for 2012 and I guess your conversations with your clients for spending this year could you give us a sense on how much of the sort of the increase in revenues that you're seeing is coming from just bigger budgets more services provided to these clients or maybe the ability to regain some pricing or get back some of the discounting you may have given them in the downturn? I don't think I've aggregated it client by client.
But the clients I believe are going to spend more money and they want to spend it in the most efficient and targeted way that they can.
So I think there's a commitment on the part of most clients to increase their spending.
They -- but they want to -- they want it to be in the absolutely most perfect spot and where we can prove ROI.
There's plenty of money and plenty of things for us to do.
So that changes client by client and industry by industry.
But if I had to make a generalization that's what -- that's how I'd answer your question.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly we -- should we assume that the pharma stays weak I guess for the foreseeable future? Again pharma is under pressure because drugs are coming off patent.
Pharma is under a lot of pressure from the government.
And we did have 1 or 2 client losses which contributed to our weakness earlier in the year which we should cycle out off in the first half of this year which had an impact.
I'm encouraged to say that offsetting those losses where we see the immediate impact we've -- we had a very good season in the fourth quarter for winning some business which we won't see the benefit for for 6 to 9 months 6 months or so.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Nollen from Macquarie.
Two questions please.
One I appreciate the information you gave on the amount you spent on cost cutting.
It looks like $200 million you said and the number of divestitures.
Do you have any numbers you could give us in terms of what is left do what we can expect for 2012 in terms of divestitures and anything left to be sent -- spent on severance or other items? And then secondly touching back on something we haven't talked about in a few years your convertible bonds.
You have a put date coming up on one of them coming in July.
What are your thoughts there on the 2 converts outstanding? Let's see I know we have a couple of divestitures and dispositions that we continue to work on so we know we at least have those to go.
We'll constantly evaluate businesses and we have a number of agencies that I'd say are on our very active watch list.
So we have plans in place for them to change their business and we'll monitor how that progresses over the course of the year.
As far as severance goes every year there is some amount of severance.
I don't think this year will be anywhere near as high as last year.
We'll again monitor that as we go through the year.
And as far as the converts go based upon where the stock price and interest rates are at today I don't believe we'd need to make any kind of a supplemental interest payment in order for the converts to stay outstanding.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony DiClemente from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Randy and then one for John.
Randy forgive me because we're little bit newer to your model than maybe some other analysts on the call.
But looking ahead to 2012 I think to get to that 13.4% margin I feel like we either need to model a pretty high incremental margin year-over-year.
I think that your incremental margin in 2011 was between 15% and 20%.
Where we'd have to model accelerating revenue growth in 2012? So I'm just wondering if you could give us a little more on the margin outlook and dynamic and if how headcount and personnel expenses would play a part in that.
And then I have a follow-up for John which is you mentioned in your opening comments that all of your agencies are developing their digital capabilities.
They're accelerating their expertise there.
I'm curious on the digital side.
Are your agencies taking organic share of the online ad networks and online ad exchanges? Do you feel that those capabilities are being built up to a greater degree such that it sort of mitigates your need to go out and make acquisitions in the digital agency space or is your expertise a result of acquisitions that you have made? Just trying to understand that.
Well your first one is you're modeling the business incorrectly or I should say you can't really model the business the way you're doing it from an Omnicom standpoint to have it work.
I mean I think the modeling the way you're at least describing it would probably be perfect for an individual agency.
Except in Omnicom there's effectively 2 000 of them to try to model that way and the complexity of the model trying to model each individual agency in that manner just doesn't work.
We've made a commitment to achieve those margin levels for 2011 as I said in my comments.
While it's not without challenges or difficulties we think we're on track to being able to achieve those numbers.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question is to get to those numbers you had to take some cost actions.
And I'm trying to figure out if similar cost actions are needed in 2012 to get to the 13.4% target.
Well not similar levels of cost actions.
I'm sure we'll be taking some individual cost actions.
We need to manage the business agency by agency and the only thing that is a constant is agencies change.
They have client wins.
They have client losses.
And they need to continuously focus on managing their cost structures to keep them in line with the business levels that they have again agency by agency.
The full effect of the cost actions that we took last year won't come into play at those individual agencies until this year.
And you also find that with business wins and losses there's lag times in getting the full effect of those changes.
Again I can -- I'll just reiterate we think we're well on track to achieving the objectives that we laid out.
Yes.
And you may have to repeat some of your question but let me take a shot at least part of what you said.
We've made a significant investment and it runs through our P&amp;L rather than through our capital acquisition accounting in hiring people making investments and creating the proper platforms our using and analysis of data and the various partnerships that we've entered into.
I don't have an exact number but it approaches 90 to provide us with the information that we need.
Two and a half years ago sitting and meeting with Eric Schmidt he predicted that he saw the day where he thought ad exchanges might be given away for free and he has one of the largest ones.
Now that won't happen anytime soon but there'll be increased -- increasing pressure and pricing on the best ad exchanges out there.
What we're focused on is what I covered in the call having the smartest people and the creative -- most creative people to properly use technology to target clients to find those opportunities at the absolutely proper moment and deliver to our clients the most efficient buying and delivery of audience that we possibly can.
We're looking at everything.
We always look at everything.
We don't exclude acquisitions if we think it's going to add to our skill set or accelerate the process that -- the way we believe the marketplace is moving.
The only thing that offends is ridiculous pricing where we don't get a proper return on investment where we make a decision that building it is more expensive maybe to the P&amp;L and to the margins but is more sensible in the long run to the shareholders of Omnicom.
So I don't know if I covered all of your questions.
Let me add one thing to John's comments that I find sometimes important.
We're in a number of marketing disciplines.
And each of those marketing disciplines is developing the capabilities to utilize new technologies like digital technology but basically the breadth of technologies and marketing mediums that are out there in their discipline and the utilization of those technologies is different.
So when you talk about ad exchanges that comes up against our media buying and planning businesses and it probably touches up against some of our creative businesses.
When we get into mobile and apps and some of those it affects different of our businesses.
Even in areas -- PR is hitting up with social.
Very significantly our branding businesses are going and touching up with digital technologies in different ways.
So it's very important for each of our businesses to develop the capabilities to utilize those technologies to advance its discipline or its skill sets for its clients.
And again -- and then you can correct the questions.
I mean looking at what's been done to date is almost looking at the world through the rearview mirror.
We've only seen the beginning of mobile and what its impacts is going to be and the way we're going to be able to use it.
And so the change which you've seen occur is just the beginning and that's why we kept it a very flexible open-sourced approach to this whole area.
Your next question comes from the line of David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Historically there've been a couple of swing factors in the fourth quarter like performance-based fees projects true-ups on scope of business the kind of things you really can't call toward the very end.
So I was curious where that shook out versus those X factors versus your expectations earlier in the quarter and sort of versus historical levels.
And then depending on how that sort of turned out how's the momentum building or looking in terms of first quarter as you enter the year? And on organic growth trends is it looking kind of similar? Does it feel like it's accelerating or decelerating? Guessing not much movement.
I don't know how -- Randy you can answer this question separate from me.
We always get into the fourth quarter and with as many agencies we have around the world.
There's a relatively small amount when you are talking about a $14 million business of $200 million $300 million which you cannot project whether or not clients across each one of those agencies are going to spend an incremental $50 000 or $100 000.
Whether they do or they don't depends on what becomes very important to you guys whether or not organic growth is 2/10 of a percent higher or lower than what you're expecting.
But that's all it means.
And that's a company by company market by market case-by-case study.
If I had to categorize and I haven't done the math we got some of that spending in this fourth quarter and it contributes to our results.
We didn't get it to the level that is higher level as we've seen in the past and we didn't -- we weren't as disappointed as we have been sometimes in -- when there was an economic crisis going on.
So I don't think that's going to change.
I think we're going to get to every fourth quarter and still have that level of noise in our system.
Yes.
I'd -- I'll just basically repeat what John said.
Plus or minus $50 million which is 1.5% organic growth or thereabouts in a quarter is a pretty small number given the breadth of our operations the number of clients that we have.
We'll have to take on both sides.
We don't believe plus or minus $40 million or $50 million in an individual quarter is a big number.
We know a lot of investors do.
This quarter we're on probably on the high side of maybe what the expectations were in part because we're coming off of very strong quarter last year in the fourth quarter or 2010's fourth quarter where things really kind of rebounded to normal.
I think this quarter was more or less in line with a normal fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And when you -- and sort of momentum carrying into 1Q? January the numbers look good.
And that's the best information we have at the moment.
But again that's one month and it's the first month of the year.
So we don't like too much into that.
We're endeavoring to grow the company let me put it that way.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Huber from Huber Research Partners.
First if I could ask your margin goal this upcoming year to get back to 2007 margin level of 13.4%.
Randy do you think you could get to that level of growth and margin up there if you grew say organically say 3% for this new year or to be pretty tough at that level? I think we're on track to hit those margin objectives.
If we hit organic growth in that range I'm pretty confident that we'll be able to achieve those numbers.
There's a lot of -- well hedge a little bit because of a lot of variables out there but we think we're well along the way to being able to achieve it.
And also John if I could ask on page 6 here your revenue by industry.
As you think about 2012 and given the conversations you've had with your customers what industries are you most worried about from an advertising digital spend for 2012 versus 2011 levels and what areas are you most bullish on if you will for the new year? What am I most -- let me start with what I'm most bullish about.
Every one of our clients the digital aspect of how does digital impact or extend to what earned media is is objective for each one of our clients.
If I had to categorize it by industry I'd say I'm seeing a move by packaged good companies and a greater commitment from packaged good companies than they have in the past as a general category in using digital in every one of their campaigns and trying to get the most efficient use of their media dollars.
What about the other side the negative side? What are you most worried about? What categories? Craig you know me I worry about everything.
You should see my to-do list.
But there's nothing specific or any specific client at the moment couched in that regard.
The -- my biggest concerns are whereas the government claims we have no inflation in the United States when you get outside the United States there's huge inflation soaring.
You never know what that's going to do to the consumer and where they spend their money.
That's probably in the top 1 or 2 or 3 of my concerns on behalf of my clients and how do we become more efficient.
And that's the challenge that every Omnicom employee has every day to make every dollar that our clients spend more productive.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Nathanson from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> A couple for Randy.
And Randy if you could you help us on Page 6 keeping with that same theme.
Financial services grew 35% looks like in the quarter and many of us in financial services don't see anything wrong with 35% these days.
So we wondered where is that coming from what kind of clients what kind of markets? What was the source of that great growth? Volume bonuses.
Wasn't your bonus up 35%? Some of it is the base that you're comparing off.
This in particular was a combination of I'll say good broad performance as well as a couple of client wins and some project revenue.
Research Division</strong> And was there any market in particular that was affected by that which -- by region? I think the U.S.
was the -- a bigger -- the bigger piece of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's one and then second on severance.
To be sure you're including the -- when you say $200 million that includes the action in the first quarter from Clemenger? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Just -- not in Clemenger but you see action in the first quarter basically repositioning.
That's full year severance charges.
In that repositioning charges there were other charges other than severance that are not in that number.
That -- the $202 million is just severance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know -- listen I've covered you long enough to ask you this without -- it's a loaded question.
No year is typical but in general $200 million in what's a good growing year.
If '12 looks like '11 what is the normal range of severance for Omnicom? I would think $50 million to $60 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's definitely a place where you'll benefit in this year.
Then lastly incentive comp.
How big was incentive comp this year and did that differ materially from last year? It was up significantly year-over-year.
I think we had a -- I think this year's incentive comp was a full number.
I don't think it was abnormally low.
So I think it was a pretty solid -- or maybe another way to say it is the incentive comp bucket was full.
And our next question will come from Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
Randy just to jump back to uses of free cash flow.
You said that in -- you and John both mentioned in your prepared remarks sort of a renewed focus on growth.
And I'm just wondering I know you had a big chunk in Clemenger in the first quarter but would you expect upwards of $400 million in acquisition spending again this year? And then just secondly any quick comments on changes you're seeing in the labor market these days particularly around digital talent or sort of consistent upward trends there? First acquisitions within a band is hard to predict.
This year we did a handful of I'll say midsized acquisitions and they were done not on our typical earnout basis.
The Mudra deal wasn't really an earnout.
Clemenger was a large acquisition.
Marina Maher wasn't done on an earnout basis and a couple of others were in that.
Communispace was another [Technical Difficulty] That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to know introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
We hope everyone's had a chance to review our earnings release.
We've posted to our website both the press release and a presentation covering the information that we'll be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
But before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included in the back of our investor presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and actual events or results may differ materially.
I'd also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
We're going to begin the call with some brief remarks from John Wren.
Following John's remarks we'll review the financial performance for the quarter in more detail and then both John and I will be happy to take questions.
Good morning.
I'm pleased to speak to you this morning about our latest business results the progress we're making and my thoughts for the rest of the year.
2012 is off to a very good start.
First quarter results were strong.
Revenues exceeded our internal forecast and we posted significant improvement in our operating margins.
Looking at the balance of the year we're cautiously optimistic on revenue.
The region most at risk is Europe.
Major economies outside Europe I'm happy to say seem to be improving at a steady pace.
From the cost side our determination to contain costs and drive operating efficiencies is working and we are on track to achieve our margin objectives for 2012.
Given an improving but fragile global economy we at Omnicom are focused on the things we can control.
We are continuing to make significant investments in people to broaden our capabilities and service offerings.
We're also pursuing as you know a multi-pronged digital strategy built around the core idea that all of our agencies must have a strong digital talent and capabilities in order to compete in the future.
As a result we are helping and pushing our agencies where needed in order to accelerate the expansion of their digital expertise.
To achieve our objectives we're employing an open-source technology approach by partnering with technology leaders to ensure that we have access to the latest innovations and information in the marketplace.
These partnerships allow us to integrate the most effective digital strategies within our clients' overall marketing plans.
Now I'd like to turn my attention to the first quarter.
Organic growth for the first 3 months was a very strong 5.1%.
Revenue growth in the quarter was driven by very positive results in developing markets and solid performances in the U.S.
and the U.K.
This was balanced at the euro markets which experienced only nominal growth.
Our advertising business performed very well while our PR businesses showed improvement for the first time in several quarters.
Looking more closely at revenue by geography we saw a continued strength in the U.S.
with organic growth of 4.4%.
U.S.
growth was driven by strong results in brand advertising media and sports and event marketing and was offset by a decline in our healthcare specialty business.
The U.K.
experienced organic growth of 4.1%.
While the U.K.
growth slowed versus the fourth quarter the market remains relatively favorable despite the broader challenges in Europe and our individual agencies are performing very well.
Euro region growth overall was relatively flat although the performance by market varied.
Germany turned in a solid quarter France was only slightly negative and the Netherlands underperformed due primarily to the effects of a client loss.
In the more troubled European markets Greece and Ireland were negative for the quarter while the southern European markets had positive growth.
Outside the euro currency area Russia and Turkey had very strong performances with double-digit growth.
In the first quarter we again had strong performances across Asia particularly Australia China and Singapore.
In Japan we are happy to say that we had positive organic growth for the first time since the third quarter of 2010.
We again experienced growth across almost all of our industry segments.
Revenues during the quarter were particularly strong in auto food and beverage retail and technology while only health care had a negative performance.
During the quarter our agencies continued to see the benefits of their high-quality work.
Net new business for the quarter was over $1 billion representing a strong start for 2012.
As I mentioned earlier we experienced solid improvement in our margins.
Randy will provide more details on the specifics of our performance later in the call.
But I would like to emphasize that at this point we will achieve our goal of returning full year margins to the level we achieved in 2007.
I'd also like to comment on our overall strategy for allocating our capital.
As I noted on the year-end call our balance sheet remains extremely sound.
This gives us the flexibility to make smart investments and reasonably priced acquisitions to further our strategic goals.
During the quarter we completed the acquisition of Medical Collective Intelligence MCI in Japan.
MCI provides online and market research to clients in pharmaceutical and medical device industries in the world's second largest pharmaceutical market.
And the innovative digital platform offered by MCI has great potential to be rolled out to other markets especially in Asia.
Yesterday we also announced the acquisition of NIM Digital a leading agency in China specializing in media planning and buying search and digital production services.
The addition of NIM will add to our digital capabilities particularly in search and will allow us to increase the breadth of our services to our clients.
We expect acquisition activity in Asia and other high-growth markets will accelerate over the course of the year.
In addition to our acquisitions we will continue to utilize our free cash flow for dividends and share repurchases.
These distributions are fundamental to our commitment to make shareholders the major beneficiaries of Omnicom's strong cash flow.
Our performance this quarter reflects our commitment to delivering the highest quality work for our clients around the world continually expanding our capabilities to effectively market in the digital world and building strong agency cultures.
These values are at the core of what we do and we believe they are the key factors to our success.
I will now turn the call back to Randy who will take you through our numbers in more detail.
Thank you John.
Q1 was a great start to the new year.
Revenue came in at just over $3.3 billion with total year-over-year revenue growth of 5% and organic growth continuing well ahead of expectations at 5.1%.
I'll address our revenue growth in detail in a few minutes.
EBITA increased 12.7% to $387 million strong organic revenue growth in the quarter combined with the benefits of the numerous cost reduction initiatives that our agencies have executed over the past 18 months has resulted in our EBITA margin expanding about 80 basis points to 11.7%.
Our objective for the full year is to match our 2007 margin performance and while this is only one quarter we are pleased that our Q1 performance was about 30 basis points ahead of that target annualized.
Amortization of intangibles for the quarter increased 16% or $3.3 million year-over-year but was up only marginally from Q4.
Operating income or EBIT increased 12.5% to $363 million and resulting operating margin of 11% was a year-over-year improvement of about 80 basis points as well.
Now turning to Slide 2 and taking a look at the items below operating income.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $29.2 million down $2.9 million from Q1 of last year and down about $1.1 million from the fourth quarter.
The decrease versus Q4 was primarily the result of decreased average borrowings during the first quarter.
On the tax front our reported rate for the quarter was 32.8% up from 25.5% in Q1 last year.
In both years our general operating rate was about 34%.
Last year the rate was brought down primarily because the remeasurement gain recorded on the Clemenger deal was nontaxable.
And this year there were a couple of small benefits that reduced the rate for the quarter as well.
For the full year we continue to expect our rate to be between 34% and 34.3%.
Affiliate income in the quarter increased about $1 million and our minority interest increased by just over $6 million due to a combination of increased earnings in our existing businesses where we owned less than 100% and a few of our recent acquisitions where we acquired less than 100%.
As a result net income for the quarter increased 1.3% to $204.6 million.
At the top of Slide 3 we show the allocation of net income between our common shares and participating securities or restricted stock.
As a result of a year-over-year increase in restricted shares the allocation of net income to participating securities increased to 4.5 million leaving net income for common shareholders at just over $200 million for the quarter.
Year-over-year we reduced our outstanding weighted average diluted share count by just over 4% down to 277.5 million shares.
As a result diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.72.
On Slide 4 we take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX.
On a year-over-year basis the U.S.
dollar strengthened against most of our major currencies including the euro and the pound.
While the dollar weakened against the yuan the yen and the Australian dollar the net result reduced revenue by $36 million or about 1.1%.
Looking ahead if rates stay where they are we expect FX to be negative by about 3% in Q2 and by about 1.75% for the full year of 2012.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $31 million in the quarter or about 1%.
In this quarter our acquisition revenue was driven by the Clemenger and Communispace acquisitions which we completed in Q1 of 2011 as well as the Mudra Marina Maher and DDB Turkey acquisitions that we completed in Q4.
Also during the first quarter we continued making investments and completed 3 new acquisitions in Japan Russia and Australia.
Obviously our acquisition revenue is net of the revenue lost from a number of dispositions we completed over the course of 2011.
If we don't complete another acquisition or disposition acquisition revenue in the second quarter will be about 0.6%.
And with regard to organic growth we had another very strong quarter and continued to outperform expectations at 5.1% or $161 million.
This quarter organic revenue was driven by a combination of factors.
First very strong new business wins both this quarter and over the past several quarters.
Second the continued rebound in spending by many of our clients.
Third continued above average growth in the developing markets in particular in China Russia India and Latin America.
And most important our agencies continuing to expand their capabilities and service offerings to provide innovative marketing solutions for their clients.
Turning to our mix of business on Slide 5 brand advertising accounted for 47% of our revenue and marketing services 53%.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising's organic growth was 8.5% driven by growth in our media businesses emerging markets and the continuing rapid growth of our services utilizing digital technologies.
In aggregate margin services was up 2.3% and within this sector CRM had 3.1% organic growth.
This sector was led by strong performances in events branding and research.
Public relations had a very solid quarter with organic growth rebounding to 4.4% and specialty communications decreased 3.9% primarily due to generally lower spending by a number of our leading pharma clients.
On Slide 6 our geographic mix of business in the quarter was split 52% domestic and 48% international.
In the United States revenue increased $67 million or about 4%.
Acquisitions net of dispositions reduced revenue by $6.5 million and organic growth continued to be strong generally across disciplines and industries coming in at 4.4% or $73 million.
International revenue increased $89 million or about 5.9%.
As I said FX was negative 2.4% or $36 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $37.6 million or about 2.5%.
And organic growth continued to be very strong at a positive 5.8% or $88 million although results were still quite mixed by region.
In Europe as has been the pattern now for several quarters results continue to be mixed.
Russia continued to perform very well the U.K.
remained steady and Germany had a very solid quarter while France and the Netherlands were both down.
Portugal Italy Ireland Greece and Spain although relatively small for us in the aggregate were up about 3%.
In Asia we had very strong performances in Australia China India and Singapore.
Japan also had a good quarter and Korea was flat.
We also continued to have very good results in the other emerging markets of Asia the Middle East and Latin America with a standout performance for the quarter in Mexico.
Turning to Slide 7 which shows our mix of business by industry there were no significant changes in the quarter versus Q1 of 2011 or Q4 for that matter.
And as you can see from this slide we had growth in every industry sector except pharma this quarter with strong growth in autos retail travel and entertainment and technology.
Turning to Slide 8 our cash performance in the quarter was in line with our expectations.
We generated approximately $311 million of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
On Slide 9 you can see the breakdown of our primary uses of cash during the quarter.
They included dividends to our common shareholders of about $70 million which reflected the 20% increase in our quarterly dividend dividends paid to minority interest shareholders of $23 million capital expenditures of $46 million.
We should note CapEx this year will likely be up a bit year-over-year due to a couple of real estate moves and an upfront investment to support our initiatives to increase the centralization of our IT infrastructure.
Acquisitions including earnout payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $13 million in the quarter; and share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $153 million.
All in we were basically cash or leverage neutral for the quarter.
Slide 10 shows our current capital structure.
Our net debt position at the end of the quarter was $1.66 billion a decrease of about $40 million since last year.
Our leverage ratio or total debt-to-EBITDA ratio improved to 1.6x while our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is below 1 at 0.8x.
And our interest coverage ratio remains very strong and improved in the quarter a full turn to 12.9x.
And finally on Slide 11 as we continue to successfully build the company through a combination of prudently-priced acquisitions and well-focused internal development initiatives both our return on invested capital and return on equity have remained strong.
On a rolling 4-quarter basis for the 4 quarters ended 3/31/2012 our return on invested capital improved to 16.9% and our return on equity improved to 26.9%.
So in summary we believe we're off to a great start for the new year and we believe we are on track to meet the targets for 2012 that we set out last year.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
There are however several other supplemental slides included in the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point I'm going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
My question is really about margins.
I wanted to ask about beyond this year you've been very clear about your 13.4% target but beyond that can you give us some sort of thought as to where margins could go? And the second part of the question is your comment toward the end there about some CapEx increases this year and real estate moves and some IT centralization that is pretty intriguing to me if you could talk a bit more about that and how that might lead in the cost efficiencies over time.
Okay.
I'll do the second part of the question.
So periodically when we have larger office moves CapEx can spike a little bit because of buildout.
So this year we have a couple of those.
BBDO in New York being one and being the largest.
It also looks like we're going to acquire an office space in Florida so that would a little bit of CapEx layout.
And then from an IT centralization standpoint we've been working for a few years now to bring together our data centers by -- at least by network.
So a number of those initiatives are being developed this year.
So that will have a modest increase in CapEx maybe to the tune in aggregate an increase of $20 million to $30 million.
To the first part of your question this is John margins.
We're comfortable in giving a forecast of what our margins are going to be this year.
Obviously we're constantly working on becoming more efficient.
We'll continue to do that.
But at this point I don't think we want to lay out our objectives beyond 12/31/12.
Could you maybe give us some more numbers behind the real estate and IT? Any indication of what the cost savings for those from those might be? In the current year I don't think there will be any.
It may actually be an increase in cost because we're going through the transition period of moving IT from existing locations so we'll continue to have those costs creating the centers obviously have those costs and we'll end up running those capabilities parallel for some period of time.
On an ongoing basis we think it will enhance our capabilities.
We think it will give us more robust systems and a lot of standardization around the network.
And hopefully it will lead to efficiencies as well.
And our next question will come from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a little bit more color on what you're seeing in Europe now that you're entering the second quarter specifically in France? Any signs of stability or improvement there? And with regards to the client loss that you highlighted in the Netherlands do you -- any sense of when you circle that loss? I'll do the second part first.
The client that we lost in the Netherlands if nothing else happens we'll have that loss through the balance of the year.
At least through the year.
Having said that we have 2 other agencies which we own bidding for that same work.
So if we're lucky and successful and one of them retains the work it will mitigate that loss.
I don't know if it will mitigate it in the Netherlands but it will mitigate it in the aggregate.
I'm sorry the second part of your question? Research Division</strong> In France any -- I know it's early in the second quarter but any sense of stability there any signs of improvement? There's no instability.
There's uncertainty I guess.
They're going through their elections now.
And so people are distracted on other things and they're distracted by Greece and Spain and implications for the whole EU.
So we're not seeing any great setbacks but we're not seeing any plans for expansion in our conversations.
Research Division</strong> And then the positive swing that you saw I guess company-wide in PR any driver behind that it may be a client win or is that general sort of improvement in that segment? I think it's a combination of general improvement in the segment.
We're rebounding but frankly the business broadly was pretty solid really over the last couple of quarters and it just kind of wasn't appearing in the numbers.
So I don't think it's a big rebound or a big turnaround.
Our businesses are in very good shape.
They've done a good job with their clients.
It's just starting.
I guess it's really just coming back into the numbers.
Research Division</strong> Then I guess last question just given your very healthy free cash flow should we assume the same level of share buyback in Q2 that we saw in Q1? I think it will probably increase a little bit on a net basis.
And our next question comes from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Maybe I missed this but how many shares did you buy back in the quarter please? Somebody has that and they're getting it for you.
Yes.
There's really 2 numbers.
They're like one is what we bought and the other is what we bought net.
So we spent about $152 million net so that'd be about -- I think we reduced the share count probably about 3 million but we bought 5.3 million shares.
Okay very good.
And then generally each quarter your quarterly target is about $1 billion for net new client billings.
What was that number this quarter please? It was about $1.1 billion.
Okay.
And then your organic growth in the quarter about 5.1% Randy or John would you say roughly half of that was from net new wins and half was from existing business? How would you break that down roughly? Don't know.
That's not a number that we can really get to very easily.
Okay my last...
It's been years back.
It's never -- new business is never as much as half.
Just as a generalization historically speaking it's generally about 1/3.
And then last if I could your comments on pharma do you expect that to be dogging you for the rest of the year? What's your current thoughts on that please? In part some of the delays and the setbacks we have is that drugs which we had anticipated were going to get approval and be out in the market.
We didn't get that final approval.
In one case we lost a few pieces of business but we've since won more business in the same therapeutic category.
I think it's going to be a tough year for -- in the pharma business.
We might see a slight improvement over what we saw in the first quarter but it's still going to be a tough year.
And our next question comes from Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So you've made the comments in your prepared remarks about the upside versus your internal forecast at the revenue because revenue specifically you highlighted on exceeded your forecast.
Was that PR based on the prior conversation or maybe could you elaborate a little bit more into -- whether that came by discipline or by industry or even if there was any timing within the quarter? There certainly wasn't too much in the way of timing.
I think it was across the board to tell you the truth.
Yes I think it was really across the board.
Our brand communications businesses were very strong in the quarter.
New business wins over the past few quarters have been very strong.
Never quite know with some of the new business wins when the revenue is going to actually start coming through fully.
So I think it's a combination of things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in terms of timing then I mean would you -- was March -- was there any acceleration of revenue growth throughout the quarter in March or was that in line with your internal forecast? It was pretty steady throughout the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Finally then just almost I'm sensing a little bit of change in tone with regards to your proclivity for acquisition opportunities in Asia or particularly China relative to what you've done in the past.
Is that just me or are you finding that the target opportunities are becoming more appealing or your ability to analyze them and gain comfort with them has at all changed? I don't think -- well we certainly wouldn't want to think we've changed.
We continue to look and we're getting closer on a number of possibilities.
See acquisitions in that region take quite a bit of time.
We closed this quarter the NIM acquisition which we've been working on for over a year.
I remember having met with them several times last year possibly even the year before.
So transactions in that region can take some time.
I think we're just as committed to looking and have just as good a pipeline maybe even a better pipeline than we've had over the past and certainly have a lot of resources focused on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like that the acquisition pipeline is looking pretty robust that the activity may pick up.
If I look at your leverage ratio you guys restored your leverage back up to the pre-downturn levels but here it is it creeps back down just through some natural deleveraging.
Should we expect that to go back up perhaps as a result of the acquisitions? It wouldn't be as a result of acquisitions.
It would be our desire to increase or just adjust our leverage.
We control our leverage really through the amount of share repurchases that we do.
We would love to spend as much money frankly as we can on good quality acquisitions that create a lot of value for our shareholders.
The balance of the money really is how much stock we repurchase.
And our next question will come from the line of Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
Two questions.
First with some news during the quarter about a unique relationship for Chevy that you created with Interpublic commonwealth just hoping to hear a little bit more background on how that came about and what we should expect for operations going forward in decision-making.
And then second and sort of separately a big picture question around sort of the rise of social media platforms and brands taking more advantage of earned media opportunities and being able to get their messages out through some of the free platforms out there.
And just maybe interested in your high-level thoughts on how that type of work changes the dynamic for your agencies in terms of the percentage of budget that they're able to capture versus a traditional paid media type of work? Well in the first instance Commonwealth.
I was invited by Jeff Goodby he's been a partner of mine since 1989 to listen to an interesting concept and the concept was that he believed that the work that they do on Chevy plus he pointed out 3 outstanding creative guys which are in the McCann group really should get together and form some kind of a new entity to aid in the resurgence of Chevy as the leading global brand and asked if we would entertain an unusual situation which was Commonwealth and do a partnership with IPG.
Knowing and trusting Jeff as much as I do and knowing the objective of what they're trying to accomplish and knowing 2 of the 3 other creative guys it was a pretty simple decision for us to agree to it.
And it resulted in Michael Roth and I shaking hands and saying that we'd make it work.
And your second question? As far as social media or earned media platforms they have been -- or that trend has been a factor now for a while and is certainly one of the drivers that are helping our industry outpace I will say normal industry growth or normal GDP type growth.
Obviously market is getting more complex as there's more and more of these platforms and more media opportunities or communication opportunities with potential customers.
It's our agencies jobs to come up with innovative marketing solutions for their clients utilizing the full array of marketing mediums and technologies that are available.
Obviously that takes a lot of time and in general we're getting paid for our time.
I'd say that social media is a central part though of just about all the major campaigns that we do today.
And it's a big part of what our PR companies do.
It's a big part of what our advertising agencies do.
It's a big part of what our media companies do.
And if you're there I bet you in May when we sit with -- we discern who -- what campaigns did well in Con and some other festivals we're going to find fully integrated ones that really took advantages of the social media and had earned and unearned media associated with the ones that are going to succeed.
Question comes from James Dix with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I guess on the growth outlook any color you can give on how your view of the growth environment has changed over the past quarter.
Obviously the first quarter growth was better than you expected.
I'm just wondering if that's continuing through toward the outlook that you have just going forward.
And then I guess kind of secondarily to that your growth comparison for the second quarter gets a little bit tougher.
Is that something that we should be using to maybe not assume maybe quite the same robust growth in the second quarter? And then I had just one follow-up.
Sure.
If you're comparing to last year's second quarter that was an outlier an outperformer last year.
I think -- I don't have the numbers in front of me I think it was something on the order of 8.4%.
So I don't expect that.
That was -- there were a lot of unique reasons for that and plus the business over the years has flattened out a little bit so to follow the historic patterns of what it did in 2007 even.
So we have concerns.
We're cautiously optimistic.
Europe has to remain stable and not affect the rest of the world.
The U.S.
has to continue to grow and Asia looks okay now whereas a week ago I might have had greater uncertainty so it's not something we can predict.
It's something we prepare for and then we take advantage of when we can.
I've been reading that people are saying 3% to 5% growth for the year.
While we don't give forecast or guidance 3% to 5% sounds certainly like a reasonable range.
We peg this we probably say 4% plus or minus 1% which I guess gets us to that same 3% to 5% spot.
Research Division</strong> But your view of that really hasn't changed too much year-to-date? No.
No.
I mean the areas we can control are below revenue.
And that's what our -- that's where we spend a great deal of time.
And we make sure we're prepared to take advantage of revenue opportunities when they arise.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up just on the acquisition environment which you touched on before.
I mean do you have any general sense; if you looked at everything that was in your pipeline now and things closed in line with some reasonable expectation on timing as to what the full year impact to that would be you gave some outlook for the second quarter.
But I'm just trying to get a little bit better sense of the size of the pipeline obviously allowing for the fact that sometimes things are not going to close as you expect.
Well I'm the wrong guy.
I don't get paid to guess.
A projection of acquisitions when they'd hit.
No that's impossible to really forecast.
We don't close deals until they're ready until we've completed our work until we're confident that they can be properly integrated into our business and to our accounting of financial systems.
When that all comes together the deal closes.
Oftentimes getting a handshake is the easiest part of the process and then making certain that procedures and everything else are in alignment take a disproportionate -- take an appropriate apparently amount of time but take a long time.
And the next question comes from Brian Wieser with Pivotal Research.
Two questions one related to underlying growth trends.
Inside of advertising you mentioned media is a contributing factor.
Are the creative agencies generally still growing recently at this point in time? And inside of that sector to what degree is the barter business or the trading desk contributing to growth? A second semi-related separate question.
We've seen consultancies such as IBM Accenture and now even Australia Deloitte is starting to get into the marketing services business as CIO and CMO responsibilities are starting to intersect.
Love to hear your views on how that is evolving in terms of competitive landscape.
Second one first.
There'll always be competitors.
The difference in the people that you mentioned versus what the more traditional holding companies do is there's advice and then there's execution of a program.
Giving advice is simple.
Getting into the foxhole with the client and executing on the plan and making certain that it works is a bit more complex.
So whereas there will always be competition and competition for certain aspects of the business I don't see the people that you mentioned coming into our sweet spot anytime soon.
But we're vigilant as always.
And the first part of your question? The first part was were the creative agencies growing and absolutely.
They're big drivers and that's somewhat of a disconnect in the idea that there's digital firms growing and there's the creative firms.
Well in our approach our creative firms are fully integrated.
They're coming up with great ideas and executing those ideas across mediums and disciplines and whether it's social media online or great TV they're the center of that idea creation and execution.
We also mentioned our media companies growing.
Our media business has been doing extremely well across fronts both in I'll say more traditional media although I'm not sure that exists anymore because the programs are mostly integrated.
But they've developed excellent digital capabilities and analytics capabilities all of which are helping them to drive their growth.
And any thoughts about barter and trading desks as the contributing factors? Barter is about flat year-over-year.
It is a business.
Trading desk is an incredible platform and its limitations are -- it's only limited by the amount of inventory it can free from the publishers which we're always working on exchanges and private exchanges and the like to get value that we want.
So that's a business that -- that's a business of the present and the future and it will only grow as times go on.
And the next question comes from Anthony DiClemente with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First for Randy just a housekeeping question.
If you could please breakout salary and service expenses from office and general expenses if you have that that'd be great.
I think we included it in the presentation.
Research Division</strong> It might be.
I didn't see it.
I could follow up offline if that's easier for you.
I got it.
Salary and service is $2 434 400 000 and office and general is $510.4 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then more broadly for John when you think about -- you've talked about digital quite a bit.
When you think about the acceleration we're seeing in mobile and apps on mobile it feels like business explosion of volume and usage but mobile and app media pricing remains well below PC.
I'm just wondering what you're hearing from your clients on this? Are you advising them to more dramatically raise their allocation to mobile? Can you talk about mobile and apps as it relates to branding for your clients? And maybe what does the market need to see for there to be a catch-up on the demand side to keep up with all this tremendous explosion in usage? Sure.
The spending is not there yet.
I start everyone in my CEO meetings with the fact that whatever we have to talk about it's going to be mobile first at some point.
I see the device eventually being the equivalent of when they introduced remote controls into living rooms.
It will dictate your life someday and as a result marketing allows tremendous impact.
I think no one from our side has cracked meaningful engaging type of advertising on the phone yet.
That's still in test.
I think once that happens you'll see budgets follow it rather vigorously.
Apps are cool but apps aren't the solution in my opinion.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it's a technology thing that has to happen adapting branded campaigns to the form factor of mobile or do you think it's just a mentality that needs to shift more dramatically in the mindset of the CMOs and your clients? Well let me put it this way.
I agree with your premise that it is going to be explosive in the future.
I don't really have the solution in my mind but I'd have to be honest with you.
If I did have the solution I wouldn't disclose it in this conference call.
I'd execute it and that's why you'd see it.
But we're working on it.
We're certainly working on it.
And our next question is from Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to ask you about China Russia India and Latin America.
Has your appetite to go after domestic clients there increased at all or are we really looking at growth that's being fueled by your relationships with that top 250 clients the multinationals you talked about? We will have to do that by market as opposed to the broad list that you gave.
In China naturally we're after the 250 and then what we're after and we have some examples of it already like Huawei of large Chinese companies that are either going to become global or are in fact global.
Those are our immediate targets.
We're learning every day about the local market.
Oftentimes very local market advertising opportunities.
We can't compete against local Chinese firms.
What are some of the other markets you mentioned? LLC Research Division</strong> Just Russia India and Lat Am the markets that you highlighted as continuing that strong growth.
Russia again multinationals are big and there's are a lot of large Russian companies that are important on a global or certainly European basis and we're able to do that.
Plus Russia a lot of our businesses which are DOS-type businesses like the branding businesses and the luxury businesses that we have exploded in markets like China and like Russia.
LLC Research Division</strong> So would you look at a different growth profile for the domestic businesses versus the multinationals where you have existing relationships or are they fairly consistent do you think? We look at...
They're the same business.
So it's our businesses with just a different from profile.
In China we're probably 85% or 90% multinationals.
In Russia we're probably 50% or 60% multinationals.
Latin America I think is fairly similar to that probably in that 50% range.
So really depends upon the market.
And it depends upon -- when you really break it down it depends upon the clients.
Banks in local markets are easier to do than grocery stores.
I think we've got time for one more call assuming or one more question assuming there's one in the queue.
And that will come from Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Robert Fishman calling in from Michael.
Wondering if you could help us with a couple of expense questions.
First when you think about the office and general line just curious how you think about the pace going forward as it grew in the low single digits in the first quarter.
How should we think about for the rest of the year? It tends to be the more stable of our lines.
It's obviously smaller so smaller variances can bounce around.
But it is less highly correlated to revenue obviously than salary and service.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are there areas for cost savings going forward given some of the opportunities that you discussed earlier? Yes but there's also areas of investment that are also going on.
Our job is to try to balance the 2 of them out and deliver overall margin so we're very comfortable in being able to achieve our margin targets for 2012.
Where that's going to actually come out or which line item I think we're -- I think that's a little hard to predict.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you help us just with the ending employee count at the end of the quarter? That's one off of my head.
Not off the top of my head.
If -- we'll get back to you with a number assuming we have it at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just last question how should we think about the pace of the buyback through the year? Is it just really going to fluctuate based on free cash flow generation? Yes.
Basically we use our share repurchases for 2 things.
We're committed to spending all of our free cash flow on a combination of dividends acquisitions and share repurchases.
Acquisitions is obviously the one that is most difficult at the time.
We use share repurchases to basically balance that out and also to balance out the leverage levels that we want to have.
In all likelihood we'll probably -- if we follow a similar pattern to past we'll probably buy more shares in the first half of the year see how acquisitions go and then sort of finish the year out at the leverage levels that we want.
And thank you all for taking the time to listen to our call.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Omnicom Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd now like to introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our second quarter 2012 earnings call.
We hope everyone's had a chance to review our earnings release.
We have posted to our website both the press release and a presentation covering the information that we'll be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included at the end of our investor presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and actual events or results may differ materially.
I'd also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about our performance.
You can find a reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
We're going to begin the call with some brief remarks from John Wren.
Following John's remarks we'll review our financial performance for the quarter and then both John and I will be happy to take questions.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on the call.
I'd like to spend my time this morning by starting with our latest business results give you my thoughts on the current environment and discuss our expectations for the rest of 2012.
I'm happy to say that we had another strong quarter especially when you consider some of the economic headwinds out there.
We continue to deliver above average organic growth and we remain very much on track to achieve our margin objectives for the year.
For the second half we are cautiously optimistic about revenues.
We recognize that there are risks in a number of regions that could impact global growth.
On the risk side the situation in Europe remains tenuous.
In the U.S.
continuing fiscal concerns unemployment and the upcoming elections create uncertainty.
In Asia even though overall growth is still quite attractive the pace of their economic growth is also moderating.
On the plus side central banks in the U.S.
Europe and Asia are acting in a manner that supports growth.
And in our conversations with our clients their focus remains on building their businesses around the world.
We continue to keep an eye on the macroeconomic picture but as I said last quarter we are most focused on the things we can control.
Even as we tightly manage our costs we are making smart investments in our people our service capabilities and our geographic footprint.
These investments don't always make headlines themselves but they are helping us to consistently win new business and to extend our existing client relationships.
Across all of our networks and agencies we are investing in talented people who are helping us to broaden our capabilities and service offerings and to fulfill our commitment to differentiating creative and executional excellence on behalf of our clients.
This was most recently illustrated by our outstanding performance at the International Festival of Creativity in Cannes where Omnicom agencies from 34 countries won more than 200 Lions representing over 90 clients.
I want to congratulate all of our agencies on their performance.
The future of our industry belongs to those organizations that can deliver integrated solutions for clients.
The marketplace is getting more complex.
Consumers are blurring the lines between offline and online.
New technologies offer greater opportunities to effectively communicate with customers and in my opinion we're only at the beginning.
We are just learning how to effectively utilize social media and smartphone technology.
To be successful agencies must increasingly blend all these media together with a deep understanding of data and analytics to help their clients find and serve customers where they are and the way they want.
And our agencies must be agile enough to keep learning and changing as technology does.
Our entire digital strategy is built around this idea: build the expertise in every agency make sure we are not weighted to any single technology and integrate these capabilities to better service our clients.
In a recent example of our approach in late June TBWA announced the formation of the Digital Arts Network.
Digital Arts Network unifies TBWA's proven digital talent encompassing over 700 digital specialists in the network and initially rolling it out in 18 markets a global footprint to rival any pure play digital shop.
This talent will remain fully integrated within TBWA's existing business.
Now I'd like to turn my attention to the second quarter.
Organic growth for the quarter was a very strong 5.1%.
We experienced positive growth in every major region around the world with the exception of the euro markets.
Organic growth in our international markets outside of the euro was almost 9%.
Our advertising business continued to perform very well and our CRM business also had solid growth.
Looking more closely at revenue by geography.
We saw a continued strength in the U.S.
with organic growth of 5.4%.
U.S.
growth was driven by strong results in advertising branding media and sports and event marketing.
Offsetting this was a decline in our healthcare and specialty businesses.
The U.K.
experienced organic growth of 3.2%.
The U.K.
has been a consistently strong market for us and during the quarter we further improved our position through the acquisition of adam&amp;eve which is being combined with DDB U.K.
adam&amp;eve creativity and vision align perfectly with our culture and adds world-class talent to what is already one of our premier offices and markets.
Given the continued challenges in Europe euro region growth was negative although the performance by market again varied.
Germany and France were relatively flat.
The more troubled euro markets also had a difficult quarter with Portugal being the exception.
Outside the euro currency area Russia and Turkey had very strong performances.
In Asia we had double-digit growth with Australia China Japan India and Singapore all exhibiting very strong performance.
Across our industry segments we experienced solid results with auto consumer products retail and technology among the better-performing sectors.
And net new business was over $1 billion for the second quarter.
Turning to our capital structure.
We're delivering on our commitment to maintaining a strong balance sheet while making shareholders the major beneficiaries of Omnicom's strong cash flows.
During the quarter we raised $750 million in new debt at today's historically low rates and we spent more than $550 million in share repurchases bringing the total for the year to over $800 million.
Even with this new debt our balance sheet remains extremely solid giving us the flexibility to pursue smart investments and acquisitions.
We continue to seek acquisitions that allow us to further our strategic goals and that meet the test of fit and price that we deem necessary for our success.
We are committed to maintaining this disciplined approach.
Before I finish I want to reiterate that we are on track to delivering our 2012 margin target.
At the same time we continue to balance these improvements with smart investments that will drive our growth that focus on delivering greater value for our clients and our shareholders.
Overall I'm extremely pleased with our performance during the quarter.
Despite the broad challenges in many regions of the world our agencies are delivering solid growth with a sharp focus on cost and margins.
We're doing this by continuing to provide their clients with world-class services using new mediums and technologies that integrate digital into their core capabilities.
I will now turn the call back to Randy who will take you through the numbers in more detail and then be available for questions.
Thanks.
As John said our agencies had an excellent performance in Q2 benefiting from their hard work and the delivery of innovative and insightful services to their clients.
As a result revenue came in at $3.6 billion which was driven by very strong organic growth of 5.1% in the face of a stiff FX headwind of 3.7%.
I'm going to address our revenue growth in more detail in a few minutes.
EBITA increased 3.7% to $530 million.
Strong organic revenue growth in the quarter combined with benefits of the many cost initiatives that our agencies have undertaken resulted in our EBITA margin expanding about 20 basis points this quarter to 14.9%.
As we've previously stated our objective for the full year is to match our 2007 margin performance which was 13.4%.
With the combined results through Q2 we're right on track to achieve that objective.
Operating income or EBIT for the quarter increased 3.7% to $506 million and the resulting operating margin of 14.2% was also a year-over-year improvement of about 20 basis points.
Looking at the items below operating income.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $34.9 million up $7.3 million from Q2 of last year and up $5.7 million from the first quarter.
During the second quarter we issued $750 million of 10-year senior notes with an annual coupon of 3 5/8%.
Both the year-over-year and the quarter-over-quarter increase in interest expense is predominantly due to the interest paid on the new bond.
On the tax front our reported tax rate for the quarter was 34.3% in line with Q2 of last year and in line with our expected operating tax rate for this year.
As a result of that net income for the quarter increased 2.8% to $282.7 million.
On Slide 3 we show the computation of diluted EPS.
The increase in net income combined with the year-over-year reduction in our diluted share count of just over 4% resulted in diluted EPS for the quarter of $1.02 which was an increase of 6.3%.
Now on Slide 4 we take a closer look at our revenue performance first with regard to FX.
On a year-over-year basis the U.S.
dollar continued to strengthen against most of our major currencies in the quarter.
The net result reduced revenue in the quarter by $130 million or 3.7%.
As we've discussed in the past the majority of our costs are incurred in the same currency as our revenues.
As a result the FX impact on our revenue flows pro rata through to our earnings having a negligible effect on our operating margin.
Looking ahead if rates stay where they are currently we expect FX to be negative by about 4.3% in Q3 and negative about 2.3% in Q4.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $25 million in the quarter or 7/10 of 1%.
In addition to a handful of smaller acquisitions this quarter we continued to benefit from the Mudra Marina Maher and DDB Turkey acquisitions that we completed in the fourth quarter of last year.
I should also point out that Q2 was the first quarter that we fully lapped the Clemenger and Communispace acquisitions which we completed in 2011.
There are also a number of dispositions that we completed during the second half of 2011 that will continue to offset our acquisition revenue through the balance of the year.
At this point if we don't complete another acquisition or disposition for the balance of the quarter that acquisition revenue will be positive about 1/2 of 1% in Q3.
And finally with regard to organic growth we had another excellent quarter of 5.1% or $179 million.
This quarter organic revenue was driven by a combination of factors with 3 that are worth noting.
Our first our agencies have continued to successfully develop innovative services utilizing the many new technologies and communications platforms being created in the market.
Second very strong new business wins over the past 2 or 3 quarters and again this quarter with net wins just over $1 billion.
And third our agencies in many of the emerging markets in particular in China Russia and India have continued to generate exceptional growth.
Turning to our mix of business on Slide 5.
Brand advertising accounted for 48% of our revenue and marketing services 52%.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising's organic growth was 7.1% driven by strong growth in our media businesses emerging markets and the development of our digital capabilities as I mentioned.
Marketing services was up 3.3%.
Within marketing services CRM had a strong 5.8% organic growth and within CRM events driven in part by Olympic-related activities and branding were the fastest-growing subcategories.
Public relations posted organic growth of about 1% and specialty communications decreased 5.2% primarily due to generally reduced spending by a number of our leading pharma accounts.
On Slide 6 and 7 our geographic mix of business in the quarter was split 52% domestic and 48% international.
In the United States revenue increased $95 million or 5.4%.
Organic growth continued to be strong generally across disciplines and industries generating 5.4% growth or again about $96 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions was effectively neutral.
International revenue decreased $22 million or about 1.3%.
FX provided a strong headwind causing revenue to decline 7.6% or $130 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue $25 million and organic growth although very mixed by region continue to be strong overall at 4.8% or adding about $83 million to revenue.
In Europe of the larger countries Russia continued to perform very well.
The U.K.
remained steady with 3.2% growth and Germany and France were basically flat.
Overall the Eurozone markets were down about 1.5% organically.
In Asia we had strong performances across the region with double-digit growth in each of Australia China India Japan and Singapore and Latin America continue to turn in solid results with standout performances in both Mexico and Chile this quarter.
Slide 8 shows our mix of business by industry.
And as the chart shows there is no significant changes in either the year-over-year or quarter-on-quarter analysis which is generally what we expect given the large diversified base of business that we have.
As for growth rates we had strong performances in the quarter in the auto retail and consumer product sectors.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our cash performance for the first 6 months of the year was very good.
We generated $664 million of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
On Slide 10 the breakdown of our primary uses of cash for the 6 months included dividends to our common shareholders of about $154 million.
The year-over-year increase reflects the 20% increase we made to our quarterly dividend at the beginning of the year dividends paid to minority interest shareholders of $57 million and capital expenditures of $113 million.
As I pointed out last quarter CapEx this year is up a bit year-over-year primarily due to a couple of sizable office moves and the long-term lease renewals.
Acquisitions including earnout payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $99 million and share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $570 million.
All-in we overspent our free cash flow by about $329 million for the 6 months which is in line with our expectations.
Slide 11 shows our current capital structure.
As everyone is aware we issued $750 million in 10-year senior notes with an annual coupon of 3 5/8% interest early in the quarter.
As a result our total debt increased to $3.9 billion.
However our net debt position at the end of the quarter is basically flat from a year ago at $2.24 billion.
As a result of the increased debt our total debt-to-EBITDA ratio increased to 2x although our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio due to increased EBITDA improved to 1.1x and our interest coverage ratio also improved due to our higher EBITDA to 12.4x.
And finally on Slide 12 as we continue to successfully build the company through a combination of prudently priced acquisitions and well-focused internal development initiatives our return on invested capital and return on equity have remained very strong.
In the last 12 months our return on invested capital improved to 16% and our return on equity improved to 28.2%.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
There are several other supplemental slides included in the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point I'm going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I guess one for John and one for Randy.
John could you give us a bit more color on I guess what advertisers' tone is for the second half as far as just incrementally nervous or are they generally comfortable with their existing spending plans both in the U.S.
and then if you saw anything directionally interesting or different in the larger euro markets France and Germany? And then Randy just a follow-up question if you could touch -- update us on your priorities for use of cash if you think you'll be more acquisitive in the back half of the year.
Most advertisers are still comfortable with their spending levels for 2012.
Although with the currencies acting the way they are and all the uncertainties out there it's always subject to -- a good portion of their spending is subject to review.
Most clients are focused on revenue growth and especially in those areas of the world where there's a rising middle class.
And the United States performed as you know from our numbers performed better than probably what GDP will come in at.
So on balance I would say there's cautious optimism but everyone's aware of the headwinds that exist.
And as far as acquisitions I don't know that we'll be that much more acquisitive in the second half.
We've -- we completed a couple of deals the first half.
Right at the beginning of the third quarter we completed an acquisition called NIM in China.
It was a good-sized acquisition good-sized for us a digital business.
We're always focused on -- I think John's terminology was fit and price.
Obviously any acquisition we look has to culturally fit and fit with our strategy.
And keeping with our character we believe in creating value for our shareholders so pricing is pretty important.
Research Division</strong> And then any incremental data points on what you're seeing in the Eurozone? I mean is there I guess anything that you saw in the quarter that would make you particularly more concerned about Q3 or is it you think at this point more of the same? Europe continues to kick the can down the road so there's constant uncertainty.
If there is anything that is true every morning it's that you don't know what today will bring.
So we're cautious.
We remain cautious.
We remain in contact with our clients.
Many of them based in Europe are multinational.
So their spending is not exactly in Europe.
They're able to move it around to where there's growth.
So euro is going to be a question I think for a long time.
I'm just learning to live with it.
And we do have a question from the line of John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Randy you highlighted the autos being up about 20% which is an acceleration from the first quarter.
With some of the weakness in the European auto sales what are you hearing out of the markets for the category? And maybe from a credit or client perspective do you see any early parallels today in Europe relative to the U.S.
back in '08? Wow.
I think in the auto sector in particular I think most of it was our performance.
I think our agencies did a good job.
I think our clients are doing fairly well and I think we're gaining some market share or business with them.
I don't really see -- as far as your second part of the question I don't see the analogy going back to 2008 frankly.
I think the big dip in auto at that time was really availability of consumer credit and I don't see that contracting at the current time.
I don't necessarily see it expanding rapidly but it seems fairly stable at this point.
Overall if I might -- this is John.
If I could just remind you this time last year Japan was still suffering from the tsunami so there wasn't as much product to meet demand and that's been restored for the most part.
Some of our clients are actually Japanese so it's contributed a little bit to the growth that you see.
We do have a question from the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Old subject here but can you talk a little bit about the flattening out of margins over the 4 quarters for this year versus like what happened back in 2007? What's sort of driving that please? World's a different place than it was in 2007 but I'll let Randy go.
I think our margins will track over the course of the year along with 2007.
We were a little bit ahead in the first quarter.
We brought it I think perfectly in line through the 6 months.
I think the balance of the year will largely track.
I mean the third quarter's a -- traditionally been a lower-margin quarter because it's a smaller revenue quarter.
Yes we could have 20 or 30 basis points swing around the third quarter I would guess.
But again we've committed to hitting the number for the full year.
We're right on track to doing that.
I'm very confident that we'll be able to.
And also just further on margins.
If you think about your traditional business versus the digital technology work that you guys do what's your updated thoughts on the margins for the 2 different areas? Are they still pretty similar in your mind or longer term maybe there's more upside on the digital technology side? I'd say that currently there's not a great deal of difference between the 2.
Technology digital as you're referring to it is integrated into every single campaign everything that we touch.
It requires different skill sets and it also adds to the pace of the work and how long the work can exist before it has to be refreshed and redone.
So the world's a complex place and not everything digital has a perfect ROI yet.
It will.
So until we get to then I don't see any grand distinction between one or the other.
A matter of fact we don't see any distinction between use of digital and some of the -- what you referred to as the more traditional channels to reach consumers.
I think if there is a difference in -- digital is again a broad word.
It means obviously lots of different things.
On our labor-related businesses we're going to get very similar margins.
In some of the new technology spaces we're making investments in technology platforms.
We expect to get a return on the investment in the platform as well as a return on the labor.
In those circumstances because we'll make a bigger investment in that platform maybe the margins will actually appear to be higher because we're getting that joint return but that's just a matter of timing.
We're really focused more on a return on our capital and I think that'll be pretty similar.
And also just 2 quick housekeeping questions if I could.
Could you break out salary in the office and general line for us? And then also what was your actual shares you bought back in the quarter not the net but the actual number please? Let me get those -- let's keep going on.
We'll get those answers.
And we'll say them on -- following one of the other questions.
And we do have a question from the line of Leo Kulp with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about how you think recent privacy initiatives notably the potential for IE 10 to have Do Not Tracks as default could impact your digital businesses and the broader digital market? Well we do have privacy experts who follow this and certainly send me an email every day as to the state of the state.
There is no question that we've always been conservative in terms of what technology will permit you to do and what you do do in respecting the privacy laws which are different market to market.
It's a big unknown question as to what the future of that is especially as mobile technology starts to take hold and we start to utilize it more to reach consumers.
But keep in mind those are the rules that you practice under.
It's not going to change our business.
These are very interesting communication mediums or platforms.
Our clients and our firms will develop services to reach consumers over those platforms under the appropriate rules.
It shouldn't change our business.
It'll just change again the engagement rules.
It's not going to change the desire of those mediums or our profitability.
Going back to answering Craig's question looks like we bought almost 11 million shares during the quarter.
And as far as the breakout of salary and service and office and general it was $2.541 billion in salary and service and $513 million in office and general.
And we do have a question from the line of James Dix with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Three things.
I guess as you sit here now and compared to 3 months ago are there any variances in your outlook for organic growth by geography that are worth calling out versus what you thought they would be 3 months ago? And then secondly are you seeing any more volatility in any of your more cyclical client categories? For example I noticed that travel and entertainment spending was down in the second quarter although there may have been some client-specific things driving that.
But I was curious on that point.
And then finally I mean it sounds to me like you continue to have more confidence in what your full year margin will be as opposed to exactly what your organic growth is going to be.
Correct me if I'm wrong on that point but I'm just wondering if at this stage in going through the rationalization of your business and closing things down and adjusting costs what you see is kind of the flex that you have in terms of managing your operating expense to adjust to any changes or surprises in organic growth? I think I said in the first quarter call and I think I repeated it earlier we remain cautiously optimistic about our revenues.
The -- as macroeconomic areas change as governments which are increasingly important and the outcome of how economies and regions perform get involved in the action and the pace of which they get this is a constant process.
My feelings -- my overall feeling guiding the firm hasn't changed.
My input changes every morning and so we make appropriate adjustments where we can.
It's a difficult time given the level of global growth and it's going to remain that way I think for a little while before it gets straightened out.
But I think historically you can look at performance of this management team not only the people talking to you today but the people running the companies and see that even in more dire times we've been able to do a superb job in adjusting our costs to whatever economic conditions we seem to face.
And I'm sorry I missed the middle of your question so...
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just -- are you seeing any more volatility in some of the more economically cyclical client categories? And then I noted in particular the travel and entertainment spending was actually down in the quarter.
I didn't look at it.
I don't think so.
I mean I think we see some stronger sectors some of the technology areas.
When clients are coming out with new products I think we're seeing marketing spend following those.
The other sectors I think are driven more by our operating performance business wins and/or losses that we can grow -- that we're growing our share growing our revenue different than the economic growth in those underlying sectors.
If it's all right with you we'll go on while we look for the travel explanation.
It could be client related.
I don't know it off the top of my head and then we'll answer it when we find it.
And we have a question from the line of Anthony DiClemente with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> One for Randy and one for John.
Randy on the buyback your net repurchases really stepped up in the quarter.
I'm wondering if we should expect or you expect your pace of repurchases to more track the first half of this year in terms of overspending free cash flows you mentioned in your opening remarks or should we expect that pace to sort of mirror last year's where I think the second half wasn't as -- didn't have as much repurchase activity as the first half did.
And a follow-up for John.
I think we'll probably track more or less like we did last year.
That's what we said all along that we would probably get to about this level probably through the third quarter which is somewhat of a smaller quarter see how the year plays out utilize most of our free cash and then we'll see what's happening in the fourth quarter.
Just 2 things I would add to that.
There's -- number one there are a number of acquisitions out there that almost meet all our criteria with the possible exception of fantasy pricing from my point of view.
So we'll see how it goes.
There's things that I'd -- that I would invest in if I thought we get the proper return.
So that enters into our thinking.
And what we do is -- we have a board meeting later this week.
We discuss this with our board and when it comes to share repurchases we have their authorization but we seek their guidance constantly in terms of where we should be.
Research Division</strong> I would just -- that's an interesting point about trying to figuring out why there isn't more of a surge in M&amp;A with the credit markets so accommodating.
John I was just wondering this fantasy pricing do you think that's -- do you think it's more because the credit markets are so accommodating the sellers don't feel a sense of urgency? It just feels like these private market multiples are off the charts.
What gives their -- since you bring it up wonder what you think is going on.
Yes.
I wish I could give you a very crisp answer to that and I can't.
Some people are paying for -- to strategically broaden their platforms or they look internally and they see deficiencies in the service capabilities that they have and so they buy.
I've seen in quite a number of recent deals where there's no competitor in the bidding for these companies and the buyers are I think overpaying.
Now I've been the CEO and I've been with this company for a long time and so I never celebrate the purchase as much as I figure out how I'm going to repay my shareholders for the investment that I'm making.
So it enters very heavily into our equation and we've been pretty consistent over the years.
And when you compare our results and what we've been able to do organically by investing in our company and our people we haven't really been deficient and we haven't missed much or I would say we haven't missed anything.
But I'm sure there's something we've missed.
So I'm sorry I'd probably do something else if I could answer that question better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one last one for me John.
Within advertising a couple of folks have asked about digital.
You've said the spending on mobile just isn't there yet I think you said in the past.
And just even in the past quarter it feels like we've had this explosion in handsets and devices globally.
And so I'm wondering from your clients if you've seen any sort of pickup in interest in activity in mobile ad spend? I haven't seen a shift in the dollars yet just an awareness level that it's coming.
And we're getting better.
Our clients are getting better at the use of mobile.
And I think as we get better in the future it's going to garner a greater share of budgets.
Going back to the earlier question on travel it wasn't due to the sector as much as it was due to a specific client loss that we're cycling through.
And we do have a question from the line of William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could just talk about severance and just how you're managing kind of given the uncertainty in the climate and whether there was a meaningful change in severance year-over-year in the June quarter.
There wasn't a meaningful change.
I think it was pretty much flat maybe up a couple million dollars.
Flat basically flat.
Yes to my great disappointment.
We're managing it.
We're managing -- we're trying to manage our cost structures our headcount and staff alignments extremely cautiously.
As people know it's quite expensive to adjust headcounts especially in Europe.
But our agencies are trying to manage as close to their current business levels as possible.
Research Division</strong> So just to clarify on a prior question on buybacks.
Would you borrow to buy back stock? What was the question? Research Division</strong> So you talked about some of the trade-offs on buybacks and acquisitions and so forth.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Would you borrow to buy back more stock? As a separate decision? I mean is it...
We've kind of already done it Bill.
I mean we've added a $750 million worth of debt at the beginning of the quarter.
We came into the year certainly prior to that like with most years saying that we had used all of our free cash flow on the combination of dividends acquisitions and share repurchases.
The debate I guess this year is how does that alignment work between acquisitions and share repurchases and do we have leverage? We talked over the last quarter a little bit about going into potentially over the course of the year utilizing some of that $750 million as additional leverage.
Through the 6 months we've overspent our free cash by about $330 million.
We'll see where we end up for the full year but it will be obviously someplace between utilizing all of our free cash and increasing our leverage within that $750-million zone.
The only thing I would add is the motivation and the timing of borrowing the $750 million had more to do with pricing and the attractiveness of it than for any other reasons.
We were going to do it Randy just said that whether we borrow the $750 million or not.
So I don't know if that's answering your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that's helpful.
And do you expect to get any lift in your business in the September quarter from the Olympics? It's -- it'll be muted if it is.
A lot of work that is done on the Olympics except for specific travel and entertainment is work that's already been incurred and is already running.
So I think the significant benefit from the Olympics has been -- we've already received a lot of it.
The other side of that equation is people who are spending in July and early August tend to flatten out in the third month of the quarter post the Olympics.
So I'm not anticipating any great lift as a result of the Olympics in the quarter itself.
I don't know if Randy has a different view.
No.
I mean I mentioned that I think we got some left in the second quarter from the Olympics.
I could see in some of our event businesses where I know they do quite a bit in the Olympics it was maybe $10 million or $15 million of revenue in the quarter.
As John points out I think most of the work associated with the Olympics has certainly already been done.
And I don't know that there's a huge increase in spending in aggregate across marketing disciplines just because it's an Olympic year.
I certainly think people focus on the Olympics as a marketing theme.
But if their overall spending increases dramatically that one's harder to predict.
And we do have a question from the line of Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> At the risk of beating this topic to death I want to go back to the results by industry.
And I think one thing that's intriguing to us here is the really wide gap across the different -- performance gap across the different sectors here.
And going back to second quarter of 2011 I don't think you guys provided this breakout of growth by sector so it's difficult for us to look at kind of year-on-year comps to see if there are any particular events driving this.
So given the fact that other is such a substantial -- it's 1/5 of your revenues and we saw a pretty substantial deceleration there quarter-on-quarter and then we see what's happened in telecom and I think James mentioned T&amp;E can you give us any more color -- do you have any more color as to whether this is a different type of world situation you're seeing here? And finally is this organic growth? Just to remind us -- I should know this -- is this organic or is this total reported and therefore subject to FX issues? The numbers here are total reported growth.
Yes I always caveat these numbers because frankly it's difficult for us to have them be meaningful as well.
We're dealing with year-over-year changes that include new business wins and losses as well as the underlying industry spend and it's quarter-on-quarter which if a company or a client moves then from one quarter to another quarter it can make a difference in these numbers when you're cutting up our totals into industry sectors which are relatively small numbers.
So relatively small changes can make a change in these year-over-year growth rates.
As well as John pointed out in the T&amp;E area it's a client loss that can move the needle.
They just haven't cycled on.
So I don't personally put a lot of emphasis on thinking that this gives us an analysis to what's going on in the economies.
LLC Research Division</strong> Or no growing concern that a category such as Other sees a deceleration and it's such a sizable piece of the business it's not any bit of a forecasting tool for you in any way? No.
No not at all.
I mean we'll -- we look at it but you're looking for over a much broader period of time than simply a quarter.
I mean 1% of growth is only $30 million for the entire corporation in a quarter.
So once you start to break it down into these segments the numbers as Randy mentioned get pretty small.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Last quick one.
Could you offer any comments on the PR business? Are you feeling comfortable with the assets there? And is there kind of any onetime events that are impacting the trajectory of growth there? Very comfortable with our PR assets.
I don't know how well you know me.
I'm very comfortable and never satisfied.
So there's always more to do.
We have great brands and we have a couple of things which we could improve on.
But the direction in the management teams the products I'm very comfortable with.
And we do have a question from the line of Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
A couple more follow-ups on the quarter and one on the outlook please.
Could you explain in the U.S.
why your Q2 organic growth accelerated versus Q1 even on a difficult comp? Was that account wins or what might have been driving that? Secondly in Europe is it possible to estimate or say what the contribution from the football championships was? I heard what you said on the Olympics.
Just wondering if the soccer made a difference on your Europe growth in Q2.
And lastly just to make sure I understand on Q2 margins the expansion was quite a bit less than it had been in previous periods.
Why was that? And just to come back on a previous question what sort of buffer do you have to get your target for full year in case things get materially worse on the top line in the second half? Wow a lot of questions.
So the U.S.
obviously it's our business performance not the underlying economy.
I don't think in the second quarter the underlying U.S.
economy improved in any meaningful way maybe even -- it was flat and certainly sideways to down.
The only thing I would add to that and I'll -- so I mean do Huntley-Brinkley here is some of the wins last year which are cycling in now have an impact on that.
Plus there's an increasing trend on the part of clients to reduce the number of suppliers vendors advertising companies that they deal with and oft times we become the beneficiary of that.
Yes that's certainly the case.
I also was going to say I think our strategy around new technologies and basically making sure that we're building those capabilities and insights into all of our agency platforms is becoming evidently the right strategy.
I think we're seeing good results across a lot of our agencies because of that.
As far as the -- you had a question about benefits of the World Cup in Europe I don't know.
I mean I -- it wasn't something that stood out in the aggregate.
I'm sure some of our agencies benefited because of that.
But how much I don't know.
And I'd have to admit out of all the concerns we've had in Europe I wasn't looking at positives.
I was looking at potential downside.
So we didn't focus on it.
So we don't know the answer to that.
And margins we're very comfortable with being able to achieve our margin objectives for the full year.
With the first quarter we were a little bit ahead.
This quarter we managed our margin to make sure we were right on track.
We are very confident that we're going to be able to achieve the number for the full year.
And now given that we're right on track through 6 months it means we have more flexibility of making sure we're going to achieve that number in the second half.
It's not that it's not without a challenge.
Certainly our agencies have to focus every day on controlling their costs and managing their margins to keep that flexibility in place.
But incentive compensation is the primary flex point at this point and I think we're in good shape or good position.
And that last question then comes from the line of Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
John you mentioned in your opening comments how you're still early days in learning how to use mobile and social to benefit your clients and I know it's always a little difficult to parse integrated work.
But maybe at the highest level possible I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on now the economics to your agencies may change as you do more earned and owned media work for your clients particularly around social and mobile platforms and where there is no media company on the end usually to buy the impressions of and again how that changes economics for your agencies.
Sure.
If there is a formula I don't possess it.
Not yet.
There's a lot of learning that goes on which means that you're making investments as people learn and practice in these areas to find out what's effective and what isn't effective.
Longer term I think we will get a greater correlation between ROI and the effectiveness of some of these new capabilities but it's still early days.
And most mobile phone advertising up until now has taken a form of banner ads or not truly integrated into the social fabric of what the product is.
I see that changing very very rapidly.
And our ability to use phones to motivate especially at the point of sale what a consumer would do is also increasing every day as we speak.
So it's early days.
I've highlighted it.
I start most of my CEO meetings by saying mobile first even though the budgets and the here-and-now spending hasn't yet shifted into these areas.
And social is an experiment at the moment in that there's a lot of impact there's a lot of chatter and I don't think there's great science behind motivating the discussion of it and tying that directly to the purchase of an individual product.
But that'll increase as time goes on.
So it's early days and I don't have the answer.
If our people are innovative which they are I think we have the innovative people in the industry globally these new communications platforms provide us opportunities to create enhanced services for our clients.
That's going to create opportunities for revenue enhancement across our agency platforms.
So this is all exciting opportunities for us and we're at the very beginning of it.
And just one more final point on it.
As a generalization complexity is good for our business because our clients require us to be able to help them simplify and direct their spending.
So in the aggregate all of these new opportunities are just that opportunities for us.
So with that I think we'll thank everyone for taking the time to listen to our call.
Hopefully we answered most everyone's questions and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd now like to now introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our third quarter 2012 earnings call.
We hope everyone had a chance to review our earnings release.
We posted to our website both the press release and the presentation covering the information that we'll be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included on the last page of our investor presentation.
And to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and actual events or results may differ materially.
I'd also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find a reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
We're going to begin the call with some brief remarks from John Wren.
Then following John's remarks we'll review our financial performance for the quarter and then both John and I will be happy to take questions.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on the call.
We are now 3 quarters through 2012 and I'm pleased to say that our performance over the quarter and for the year-to-date remains strong.
Let me start by talking through some of the key points driving our business results and strategies and then I will provide some perspective on the larger business environment.
The third quarter was another solid quarter for Omnicom and our companies.
Our broad geographic footprint diversified expertise and emphasis on creative excellence has benefited both our clients and our shareholders.
For the quarter we continue to generate solid organic growth particularly in light of the macroeconomic environment.
And our margin performance remained strong keeping us on track to achieve our margin objective for the year.
Before getting into the specifics of our third quarter performance I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing the strategies that have allowed us to continue to achieve consistent results:  First our investment in the best talent; next expanding our footprint geographically and in new service areas; also expanding our digital analytical and consumer insight capabilities; and finally an increasing coordination of our service offering on our top 50 clients.
A few weeks ago we returned from the Spikes Advertising Festival Asia's most prestigious creative awards show where 30 different Omnicom agencies won a record 117 awards including first and second prize for Network of the Year by BBDO and DDB.
This performance significantly outpaced our competition.
I think this recognition is important in illustrating how the different components of our strategies come together to benefit our clients.
It also shows our progress in growing our portfolio geographically to include what we believe are the most effective and creative agencies in the Asia Pacific region.
Expanding in developing markets will continue to be a core strategic focus of Omnicom.
In the third quarter our revenue outside the U.S.
U.K.
and Eurozone accounted for almost 24% of our top line.
We also know that our success is increasingly being supported by what goes on behind the scenes in our networks and agencies.
Across many of our clients but especially for our top 50 clients which are served by multiple agencies in our group our people are collaborating more closely to share insights and ideas and increasingly working together to achieve common objectives.
These collaborations are successful because they bring together our top talent from different agencies to provide integrated solutions across brands disciplines and geographies.
Collaboration and coordination across our agencies is even more important today in servicing our major clients as many of them are seeking to consolidate their advertising and marketing spend across a smaller group of agencies.
Overall we have been successful in gaining a greater share of business in these consolidations while providing clients more integrated services and operational efficiencies.
We're also benefiting from stronger digital capabilities within our agencies and from our increased focus on using data and analytics to generate valuable insights and drive results.
As I have said before the industry is only at the beginning of learning how to use these new technologies to effectively communicate with consumers.
And these new technologies are changing quite rapidly requiring us to continually change and adapt.
While each of our agencies is developing digital and analytical skill sets we are also increasingly leveraging our investment in Annalect.
Annalect which includes our search business resolution media our mobile and display businesses now has over 600 employees servicing clients in more than 30 markets around the world.
Overall we are firmly committed to bringing the best talent creative digital and analytical tools to our clients.
And clients existing and new are responding by expanding our mandates and awarding us new pieces of business.
Of course we must always be conscious that we're operating in what remains a fragile economic environment.
As we invest in areas with significant growth potential we do so carefully and we remain vigilant in managing our expenses.
Our goal is to take advantage of growth opportunities while remaining flexible and agile enough to respond to the changing economic conditions.
As we've noted in the past few quarters we continue to keep a close eye on the macroeconomic picture.
While we remain cautiously optimistic about our business we recognize that political and economic uncertainty as was most recently highlighted by the IMF could negatively impact global growth this year and next.
With this in mind in every market we are working with our companies to assess the impact of economic shifts while continuing to focus on the things we can control: investing in talent expanding our capabilities and adapting quickly to a more complex technologically driven environment.
Now I'd like to turn my attention to the third quarter.
Organic growth for the quarter was a solid 3.5%.
This performance was driven in large part by the U.S.
and developing international markets.
Our advertising business also continued to perform extremely well followed by our CRM business.
Looking more closely at revenue by geography.
We saw continued strength in the U.S.
with organic growth of 3.1%.
Although this was somewhat slower than what we had experienced in the first half U.S.
growth was driven by strong results in advertising media and sports and event marketing.
The U.K.
was essentially flat for the quarter weighed down by a slowdown in our field marketing operations.
Outside of this one operation the overall market performance was quite positive supported in part by the Olympics-related spend.
Euro region growth was a negative 1.8% for the quarter although the performance by market again varied.
Germany and France and the Netherlands were negative while Italy Portugal and Spain were all positive due to the strength of our individual businesses in those markets.
However given the state of these economies we remain very cautious.
I should note our European management teams have clearly been facing the most challenging conditions across our global footprint but they continue to do a very good job of servicing their clients and at the same time managing their cost structures.
Outside the Eurozone the Czech Republic Russia and Turkey had strong performances.
And notwithstanding the less robust growth expectations in developing markets Latin America and Asia each experienced double-digit growth for us during the quarter.
Latin America was driven by Brazil and Chile and Argentina was also positive.
In Asia we had above average performances in China Japan India and Singapore.
Looking at revenue growth by industry.
Auto and consumer products retail and technology were among the better-performing sectors.
And net new business was over $1 billion for the quarter.
Let me now turn to our capital structure and use of cash.
We are operating in an environment with historically low interest rates and continue to look for ways to use this as an opportunity to optimize our balance sheet provide for continued growth and to ensure that shareholders are the major beneficiaries of Omnicom's strong cash flows.
In the second quarter we raised $750 million in new debt and during the third quarter we raised an additional $500 million at a yield of just under 3%.
We also continued to repurchase shares during the quarter bringing our year-to-date repurchases to over $700 million.
Even with these new financings and repurchases our balance sheet and credit ratings remain extremely strong.
The new capital provides us with greater flexibility to invest in our existing businesses and to add new ones where appropriate.
On the acquisition front we believe valuations have become inflated in many areas particularly in digital.
We are committed to maintaining a disciplined approach to acquisitions and will only pursue transactions that allow us to further our strategic goals and that meet the tests of fit and price.
Before I finish I want to note that we have continued to manage our businesses carefully by removing unnecessary costs and making smart investments in growth.
This diligence has paid off and we fully expect to deliver on our 2012 margin targets.
I'll now turn the call back to Randy who'll take you through our numbers in more detail.
Thank you John.
As John pointed out this was a very solid quarter for our agencies.
We continue to track very well against our objectives for the year despite a difficult economic backdrop that has not improved as we'd expected coming into the year.
Our agencies have done very well this year on the new business front with both account consolidations and continuing to develop innovative new services for their clients.
At the same time they've made excellent progress managing their costs and realigning their cost structures where necessary.
And as this quarter highlights our agencies continue to make excellent progress building the brands mostly organically in the developing markets.
Now for the quarter.
Revenue came in at a little over $3.4 billion which was driven by solid organic growth of 3.5% and in spite of a continuing stiff FX headwind which this quarter was a negative 3.4%.
But I'll address our revenue growth in more detail in a few minutes.
EBITA increased 4.4% to $414.6 million and margins this quarter were 12.2% up about 50 basis points from last year.
For the 9 months we're now a little ahead of schedule but that's mostly timing.
We expect to achieve our previously stated margin target of 13.4% for the full year.
Similarly operating income or EBIT for the quarter increased 3.7% to $387 million.
And our resulting operating margin of 11.4% was a year-over-year improvement of about 40 basis points.
Amortization of intangibles was up about $3.6 million this quarter about $2 million of which resulted from a nonrecurring impairment charge.
And the balance was due to an increase in amortizable intangibles related to acquisitions.
Slide 2 addresses the items below operating income.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $40.3 million up $8.4 million from Q3 of last year and up $5.4 million from the second quarter.
In the second quarter we issued $750 million of 10-year 3 5/8% notes.
And this quarter we opportunistically added $500 million to that same issue at an effective rate of about 3%.
Both the year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter increase in interest expense is predominantly due to the interest paid on these new notes offset by interest income earned on the increased cash balances.
However the rates earned on cash balances is quite well in the current environment.
On the tax front our reported rate for the quarter was 34.2% basically flat with our Q3 rate last year and remains in line with our expected operating tax rate for the year.
Earnings from our equity interest in affiliates increased just under $1 million to $5.3 million this quarter.
And additionally the allocation of earnings to the minority owners in our less-than-fully owned subsidiaries increased $4.5 million to $29.7 million.
This increase was due primarily to the strong performance of many of our international subsidiaries outside of the Eurozone where some of our ownership structures include minority ownership by our senior management teams as well as additional minority interests in several of our recent acquisitions.
And the aggregate result was net income increasing to $203.9 million for the quarter.
On Slide 3 we show the allocation of net income to common shareholders and participating securities as well as our diluted share count which is down year-over-year by 4.6% and the computation of our diluted earnings per share which for the quarter increased 2.8% to $0.74 per share.
On Slide 4 we take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX.
On a year-over-year basis the U.S.
dollar continued to strengthen against almost all of our major currencies except for the Chinese renminbi.
The net result was as I mentioned earlier a very stiff headwind that reduced revenue for the quarter by 3.4% or about $115 million.
Fortunately as we've discussed in the past the majority of our costs are incurred in the same currency as our revenues.
So while there's a pro rata effect on earnings there is a minimal effect on our operating margin.
FX rates over the past month or so have stabilized somewhat.
Looking ahead if rates stay where they are currently we expect FX to be negative by only about 75 basis points in Q4 and negative about 2.5% for the full year.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $23.5 million in the quarter or 0.7%.
In addition to the 4 new acquisitions completed during Q3 we continued to benefit from the acquisitions completed over the past 12 months including Mudra in India MCI in Japan and Marina Maher.
We also continue to feel the effect of the dispositions that we completed mostly during the second half of 2011.
While we've started to cycle on several of these dispositions we'll not fully cycle through until 2013.
So at this point if we don't complete another acquisition or disposition for the balance of the year the net acquisition revenue will be positive about 40 basis points in Q4.
And with regard to organic growth.
While increasingly mixed by market and industry sector overall we had another very solid quarter up 3.5% or about $118 million.
This quarter we continued to perform well in North America and we had double-digit growth in South America Asia Africa and Russia.
However this was offset by the ongoing sluggish performance across Europe.
Our new business performance continued to be strong in the quarter with net wins of just over $1 billion as we continue to benefit from some of the larger account consolidation movements that are occurring in the marketplace.
And our agencies have continued to successfully develop innovative services utilizing the many new technologies and communication platforms that are available today.
Turning to our mix of business on Slide 5.
Brand advertising accounted for 47% of our revenue; and marketing and services 53%.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising's organic growth was 5.7% driven by continued strong growth in our media businesses emerging markets and new technology services.
And marketing services was up 1.6%.
Within marketing services CRM had an organic growth of 2.4% public relations was slightly down at 0.3% as was specialty communications.
While still negative this quarter was a significant improvement from the first half.
While we continue to see spending cuts in the pharma and health care sector we have benefited from some of the account consolidation initiatives.
As a result we expect to cycle through the difficult comps next year and see this sector turn into a positive.
Turning to Slides 6 and 7.
Our geographic mix of business in the quarter was split 52% in the U.S.
15% in the euro markets 9% the U.K.
and 24% rest of world.
In the United States revenue increased $55 million or 3.2%.
Organic growth continued to be solid generally across disciplines and industries at 3.1% or $53.4 million.
And acquisitions net of dispositions was marginally positive adding $1.5 million.
International revenue decreased $29 million or about 1.7%.
As I mentioned FX continued to create a strong headwind causing a revenue decline of about 6.9% or $115 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $22 million.
And organic growth although extremely mixed by region continued to be solid overall at a positive 3.8% or $64 million.
Looking at the organic growth by market.
In Europe of the larger countries Russia continued to perform very well the U.K.
was essentially flat and Germany France and the Netherlands were down.
In aggregate the Eurozone markets were down 1.8% organically.
In Asia we continue to have strong performances across the region with double-digit growth overall.
This quarter China India Japan Hong Kong and Indonesia led the way.
In other parts of the world we had strong performances in Canada Brazil Chile and Africa.
Turning to Slide 8 which shows our mix of business by industry.
There were no significant changes either year-over-year or versus the second quarter of 2012.
As for growth rates while still quite mixed by sector this quarter we had solid performances in auto retail technology and consumer products.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our cash performance for the first 9 months was very good with free cash flow excluding changes in working capital increasing just over $100 million to $966 million.
On Slide 10 the breakdown of our primary uses of cash for the 9 months included dividends to common shareholders of $235 million.
The year-over-year increase reflects both the 20% increase in our quarterly dividend and the reduction of our share count; dividends paid to minority interest shareholders of $79 million; capital expenditures of $159 million.
As we've mentioned on earlier calls CapEx is planned to be up this year primarily due to a couple of sizable office makeovers related to long-term lease renewals as well as increased IT spending related to our IT consolidation initiative.
Acquisitions including contingent purchase price payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled just under $159 million.
And share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $714 million.
In total and again excluding working capital year-to-date we've outspent our free cash by about $380 million.
Slide 11 shows our current capital structure.
As we mentioned earlier in August we added an additional $500 million in 10-year senior notes to the $750 million issue we completed in Q2.
As a result year-over-year our total debt increased by $1.25 billion to $4.46 billion.
However our net debt position at the end of the quarter was $2.5 billion an increase of $200 million from the same time last year.
As a result of the increased debt our total debt-to-EBITDA ratio increased to 2.2x although our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio remained flat at 1.2x.
Also our interest coverage ratio remains very strong at 11.9x.
And finally on Slide 12 as we've continued to successfully build the company through a combination of prudently priced acquisitions and well-focused internal development initiatives both the return on invested capital and return on equity have remained very strong.
For the last 12 months our return on invested capital was 15.7% and our return on equity improved to 28.3%.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
There are several other supplemental slides included in the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point I'm going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
Thank you again.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the sort of overall advertising outlook that you're seeing right now.
Has there been a change in sort of client mentality on spending? I noticed just a little bit of a slowdown versus the strong organic growth you saw on the first half.
Is it more that budgets were set and they kind of overspent in the beginning and now they're compensating but the mentality hasn't really changed or are you seeing more of a bit of a pull in? I don't think there's any one answer to that question Alexi.
It's all of the above.
With the uncertainty that is reported every day in the newspapers about China being off a little bit that Europe's not solved yet and the uncertainty with the fiscal cliff as people await the election.
There's conservatism and we're not certain yet what the outcome is going to be in the fourth quarter or as we get into the first quarter of next year.
We do know that we're performing very well and we're engaged in very positive conversations with our clients.
But there's no single answer or generalization I can put -- I can come up with to answer you.
Research Division</strong> But it generally sounds -- generally feels though like a pretty healthy environment.
I don't want to read too much into a slight slowdown in growth.
Is that fair? Yes we came into the year thinking 4% for the full year was a good number.
I still think 4% that range is probably still a good full year number.
The timing of the spend year-over-year can obviously move around quite a bit.
We had a very strong first half but again I don't think -- we're not ready to change our full year numbers yet.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on the margin.
You beat expectations now for most of the year.
I think you mentioned in your opening remarks you're still on target for your goal.
I guess can we assume a little upside given the strength going into the fourth quarter to your goal for EBITA for the year? No.
No.
I mean we're willing to commit to what we committed to a year ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Huber from Huber Research Partners.
A question for you is margin targets for this year of 13.4%.
Is there anything Randy that you're doing on the cost front that you've already put in place for this year or planning to do in the fourth quarter that may potentially have a tough cost comparison for 2013? Well I think these – well I've said it for a number of years.
I think the margins -- our margin target for this year is a very good overall margin given Omnicom's mix of business and our commitment to constantly invest in our businesses our training programs et cetera.
Yes so I think this year is going to be a very tough comp for next year.
I think our agencies are up to that challenge.
But I think these are good numbers.
And then also could you speak a little bit further about what you're seeing over in Europe.
Is your sense over there that things are getting worse about the same or getting better on the confidence levels the economic backdrop in your major markets over there? There's still a great deal of uncertainty in Europe.
Southern Europe the problems aren't resolved and you have political change which is recent in France.
Ultimately the Germans are going to have to probably pay the bill but they're going to have to decide when they're going to do that.
So I don't see any improvement to the European market in the near term.
I think they're at a very fragile point and they seem to be working their way through it but I'm not prepared or ready to declare it solved in any way manner make shape or form.
So we continue to manage our businesses market-by-market office-by-office in response to what the changing environment is.
And then lastly if I could just a quick housekeeping question.
Randy would you -- could you just break apart your salary line versus O&amp;G and also for your interest expense line break that apart please? Let's see.
Salaries -- salary and service cost is $215 million -- $216 million.
And office and general is $503 million.
And interest let me see interest expense is $47.8 million.
Interest income is $7.5 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Nollen from Macquarie.
A couple of things please.
Could you please elaborate a little bit more on your discussion on digital/analytical/consumer insight? Is this just continuing the work you've been doing in digital or are we detecting -- am I detecting a new tone here in things that you're doing? Are you ramping up some of your efforts there? Likewise you talked about collaboration across your agencies.
Are there further central cost savings that you might seek to achieve once you've gotten to this margin target level for this year? And likewise is that kind of a new program or an extended effort? And then lastly on share buybacks you've given it looks like kind of a net figure on share buybacks.
Is there a like a gross number you could give us what the actual dollar spent on just share buybacks in Q3 please? Sure.
The first part of your question if you'd repeat it I'm sorry? Yes.
It was about your discussion on analytical and consumer insights.
Should we detect that you're doing more work in this area? And I don't think -- you really haven't talked a whole lot about that in the past.
Yes and probably the fault is having not spoken about it more directly in the past.
What we've elected to do we've been doing it now for at least 2 years is investing very heavily through the P&amp;L rather than through doing large acquisitions in developing and expanding our digital capabilities across-the-board.
But I highlighted in the call Annalect and a number of companies that are engaged in almost purely digital items.
And those investments continue to be made.
We're making a lot of progress and getting to our first line of products which we're deploying to our clients and that's only going to speed up and continue.
What we do see during the quarter was significant growth.
Not big dollar amounts yet but significant growth in the use of mobile for the first time.
And I think that's ultimately where the future is and that will ultimately unleash the floodgates.
But the whole industry is moving in that direction.
So we've just started to discuss it a bit more then but our commitment to it has been more across-the-board for quite a while.
The second part of your question? Your second question I think has sort of 2 parts to it.
The comments I think John was making about collaboration is our efforts to provide more innovative comprehensive service to our clients and by increasing the coordination amongst our agencies around those clients.
We've described them in the past as client-centric networks.
You took it on the cost savings side.
There are a number of -- unrelated to that really there are a number of initiatives that have been going on with Omnicom for the last couple of years.
We announced them pretty strong last year about centralizing various functions in efforts to drive our costs down.
Obviously those efforts are continuous.
They're going to be ongoing for a long time.
And then once we're done with those initiatives hopefully we're developing more initiatives as we go because we're certainly charged from our clients with the task of constantly improving the efficiency of overall operations.
And your final question was stock purchases in the quarter.
I think we spent about $195.7 million and it was roughly 3 708 000 shares.
Your next question comes from the line of John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of toughies here for you guys.
One is I know it's early but you have a sense of discretionary or project spend for later in the quarter? And then secondly John can you maybe give us a little bit more color on how your clients are approaching the fiscal cliff? Well first of all we wind up going through this every year.
There is a certain amount of money that most years in the past 2 decades has gotten spent in the fourth quarter.
There has been 1 year 2008 I think where it didn't.
And there's a certain amount of unknown and that won't become clarified until -- as we go through the quarter.
It's way too early in the fourth quarter to know exactly what that's going to be.
Our clients are especially our multinational clients go where the sales are.
I mean so -- and go where there's more certainty.
That's why you see Europe slowing down.
U.S.
has held together pretty well considering all the uncertainty associated with the election and the decisions that the country has to make in terms of how we're going to go forward in the near term.
And Asia Asia's going -- especially China is going through a change in leadership.
There's been a modest reduction in growth there.
But we think it's only temporary and as the transition gets fully affected you'll see that market return to growth as well.
So it's a -- it's like the headlines at the moment.
People are to the extent that they can shifting their tactics to meet the current economic situation.
And fortunately due to the diversified nature of our business frankly our revenues have held up in many markets much much better than overall media spend.
We've seen especially some of the Southern European countries dramatic reductions in media spend and we've had – they're pretty significant reductions if you're the agency with the reduction.
But on a relative basis our agencies have done very well.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Stabler from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> With regard to your European managers is it more difficult for them to forecast given the macro uncertainties out there? When you guys compare your forecast and actual results do you tend to see a wider variance either to the upside or downside in Europe? And then I got one quick follow-up.
There's constant reforecasting recalibration.
I wouldn't characterize their job as more or less difficult than anybody else's around the world.
But again when economies are weak when you're seeking what in the press is called the new normal and it hasn't arrived yet you're very vigilant.
You're watching all the time and you're adjusting constantly.
I think it also depends upon which forecast you're talking about.
So a 3 months out forecast I don't think there's any significant difference I'll say in the volatility of their forecast -- European forecast versus other markets.
If you went out a year I'm sure it's a bit more uncertainty in their forecast.
It's not a matter of a difference of accuracy but it's certainly the uncertainty that they're facing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Randy could you offer a little color on severance how that's been tracking through the quarter and maybe expectations for the year? It's basically been tracking as we had expected.
It's I think down a little bit from this quarter last year but largely in line.
This year severance is down quite a bit from last year in the aggregate.
If you remember we had the fairly large restructuring initiative that we took in the first quarter of last year.
Absent that it's pretty much tracked quarter-to-quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you just say -- I mean are we elevated over normal run rates still at this point? Yes.
Yes and if I can just add one comment.
It's more expensive to make adjustments to your staff in Europe than it is in almost any other market in the world only because of the social policies that are in place.
That's improving somewhat but still when there's lower growth we need to go in and adjust that from time-to-time.
Yes we would -- I'm not quite sure when a normal year is anymore but we used to think that a normal year of severance was probably in the $60-or-so million range and through 9 months we're well above $70 million.
So it's definitely up versus a so-called normal year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And it sounds like Europe is still a work in progress? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Nathanson from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 to you guys.
One is could you talk about a bit about auto growth.
It's been a great category.
If there's any growth differences by region for us how much of that's U.S.? And then I don't want to read too much in one data point but if you talk a bit also about public relations it was down this quarter.
I know you had a tough comp but if you go back to like back to '08 it was a pretty good canary in the coal mine for some slowing.
So what's happening do you think in PR? And then talk about oil for a second.
Auto growth I don't have it broken down market-by-market.
I don't know if Randy has got them.
I would imagine our Japanese clients are going to have a little bit of difficulty in the fourth quarter because of the conflict with Japan but hopefully that'll pass quickly.
But auto growth has been strong.
In the U.S.
it's been strong.
In China it's been strong.
In Brazil throughout the entire year.
And your second… And your second...
Research Division</strong> Was PR.
I know it's only one quarter and it's a tough comp but what's happened there and is that potential canary in the coal mine for others slowing? I don't see it as a canary in the coal mine.
No I don't either.
And frankly I think our PR businesses in general are doing pretty well.
I certainly haven't heard anything serious negatives or slowdowns or things from our firms.
I think the -- it's a pretty modest decline 0.3 point.
I think it's probably activities.
Yes.
I mean we haven't studied it client-by-client.
I think as you're looking forward at PR and I don't know when this starts to show up in the numbers.
Increasingly clients especially in a social media environment are talking about doing more PR as part of overall campaign planning.
Again not – I'm trying to tie it to the product rather than tie it to the actual reported results.
But not terribly aware of any significant issues.
Your next question comes from the line of David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first is when you look at the swing factors that you have every fourth quarter in terms of the project work and the kind of incentive payments that may -- that hopefully come in and some of the true-ups how do you -- what's your confidence level in those dollars coming in this year versus last year? Is it about the same or – when you think about that? And the second question is you kind of highlighted I think in your prepared remarks that the private valuations remain somewhat lofty.
And I was wondering if that -- how much longer does that have to sustain itself before it maybe translates into a more direct change in capital allocation decisions like a change in stock buyback levels or things like that? With respect to the second part of your question increasingly clients are looking to go to a smaller group of agencies to reduce the roster number of vendors that they have to interface with.
So a lot of -- in my view a lot of the valuations for one-off small digital companies have been good on the owners because they've gotten decent prices through selling it but they're not really justified when you compare it to the growth in the general market and some of the trends which are going on.
And again we're in the service business.
The average age of our employees is early 30s.
The digital capability of those people becomes more ingrained in everyday and the distinction between what was called traditional in digital diminishes every day.
I think what does improve is the information and our ability to analyze the information and direct the messaging to individuals and to measure those results.
And that's the trend that's well in place and going to only continue.
With respect to the first part of your question… Every year in the fourth quarter there's a couple hundred million dollars of sort of that I'm going to call it project spend call it whatever we want to call it.
Every year it's about that same number.
I got to say every year we have about the same insight to it which is pretty minimal.
Given the economic backdrop of what's out in the marketplace and frankly the fact that it's an Olympic year and I think people may because it's an Olympic year move their spend around more.
It's certainly more difficult to predict especially on a year-over-year basis all those factors.
Probably make me feel even a little less comfortable than I did last year which wasn't very comfortable because we don't have a lot of insight into that number.
And with respect to the other parts of your question we're running the business on a -- we're a service business on a long-term basis and reporting it every 90 days.
So the swings in any 90-day period may not be impactful to our conclusions about what the long-term correct thing to do in terms of running our business are.
So we go into fourth quarter with a certain amount of uncertainty about the next 90 days less uncertainty about whether we're making the correct decisions about our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Randy I'm curious in the Eurozone I think you mentioned down around 2% maybe a little less in the quarter.
I don't know what the year-to-date number is but do you think that's a reflection of share gains for your agencies? That seems given everything we see in Europe actually a pretty good result.
Then I have a follow-up.
Well I don't know if it's -- I mean I think there's a variety of factors.
One we've got a very diversified set of businesses.
I mentioned that on an earlier question.
I certainly think that helps us.
I think our revenues at our agencies have held up pretty well given the economic backdrop and what I see is just overall media spend.
I think a lot of that has to do with frankly the hard work of the people at our agencies and frankly the innovative ideas that they're coming up with for their clients to serve them better and more efficiently in the marketplace.
Again great ideas are valuable to clients.
I think our agencies have done pretty well on that front.
It's hard to say whether or not we have a share gain or not but I do think our agencies are doing pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just touching on John you mentioned in your prepared remarks a couple of times account consolidation.
And it seems like this sort of goes in and out of favor.
What's driving it now? Is it sector specific or more broad? And do you think it continues to drive the kind of M&amp;A we've seen in the market? We've seen small deals for a while but it seems like the large M&amp;A consolidation in the sectors seems to be picking up? I don't know if they're related to that account consolidation trend or independent or have any impact on be curious on your thoughts on that.
Well I think the account consolidation is a trend that is in place and quite a number of our clients are going through the process and quite a number of our clients and other people's clients are discussing the process.
And I think that's driven by a desire in a low growth environment to gain efficiencies.
I also think the shift in media mix and how you reach consumers also has an impact on wanting to depend and deal on fewer people and not have an unlimited number of vendors that's serving you up specialties which you may respond to and haven't fully thought through in terms of what is the most effective way to get to a consumer.
So I think this trend is in place for now and I think it will only continue because companies -- our clients most of the major companies around the world are under some degree of pressure to become more efficient.
And so that's where we are today and I think as we go into 2013 and...
Research Division</strong> Do you think it drives the sort of holdco-level M&amp;A we're starting to see a little bit of? Does it -- is there a relationship to those? I mean I think if you're talking about the advertising marketing business the numbers on some things versus the revenue are big but on some things that have gotten done -- but the industry itself is fairly narrow.
So I mean we've seen Dentsu active and we've seen some people clean up some so-called digital companies which have been in the marketplace for quite some time.
But I don't see a huge M&amp;A activity in our space and I can't predict what'll happen to some of the smaller remaining players over the course of the next year.
Money is very cheap so it makes some of those decisions easy in the short run for people to spend money on deals.
I think the 2 thoughts are a bit unrelated.
I don't believe account consolidations are what's driving any of the thinking around M&amp;A activity in the industry.
I think the account consolidations idea this has been kind of an ongoing trend in parts for quite some time.
It was done on a regional basis.
It was done on various brands.
Now you're seeing a few more global changes.
I think from our industry's perspective I think when you have a difficult economic backdrop when companies are under more economic pressure I think it forces change.
Or it forces -- it certainly encourages them to attempt change to try and get more efficient.
But I think that initiative is going on in the marketplace and we'll see how it all plays through.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Chesler from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I think just about all my questions have been answered and asked.
But I think I'll just riff off of a couple other ones I've heard.
Because I never heard you not to be with a question.
Research Division</strong> I won't disappoint you.
The notion that valuations are still inflated does that have any implications on how you invest internally organically in tools to stay ahead of the curve with regard to new disciplines or are those separate? My reference was to digital acquisitions so it's not all acquisitions number one.
And number two we made a commitment several years ago to make certain that every one of our employees was trained developed and up to the standards of understanding digital in the way it affects what our products are.
So we've heavily invested every year.
We continue to make those internal investments at a very sizable pace specifically in the areas of mobile analytics data and what the future will be all of that ultimately aiding our ability to measure what we do and to be able to provide increasing ROI for our activities.
I don't know if Randy wants to add to this.
Yes I think it's right.
I mean I think with fully [ph] all of our acquisitions especially through with some of the smaller ones it's really a make-or-buy at a good price for our shareholders.
Acquisitions are fantastic.
They can accelerate change they can get you to where you want to be faster versus starting from scratch and trying to build it.
But we found for the better returns for our shareholders a constant focus on building our business internally has proven to work pretty well in most cases.
Doesn't mean that we're not going to do acquisitions.
They just have to be right price for our shareholders as well.
We're getting pretty close to 9:30 so Matt if you've got other question or one more question from the field? But either way we'll call it after one more question.
Is there another question on the line operator? Your next question comes from the line of Dan Salmon from BMO Capital Markets.
I just wanted to go back to your discussion around analytics and Annalect in particular Accuen The Trading Desk.
And some market participants have claimed maybe that The Trading Desk has become an unfortunate sort of layer in the media buying processes programmatic becomes a small but growing part of the mix of media buying.
Do you agree with that assessment? And whether or not you do how do you see those analytics and particularly trading desk functions evolving over time? Is it to be a sort of specialized group a SWAT team so to speak within OMD and PHD? Or is it more and more being aligned with some of your client teams directly? Well it's clearly being aligned for the benefit of our client teams as a utility in effect for both our media-buying activities as well as some our other activities and campaigns.
The pace at which the digital marketplace occurs and then the manner in which it's done instead of using physical bodies but almost through algorithms where in nanoseconds things are purchased and then if not producing the kind of ROI resold off back into the market I think looking way into the future that kind of an auction will occur for almost all media.
But just because the technology existed though it doesn't mean that it will happen overnight.
And it's slow.
TV still gets done in the same -- similar fashion to how it was once done as is outdoor as is other major components which are a key part of the mix.
So it's a process of evolution.
I think at the core of it is going to be -- and the determinant to where these analytics go is going to be what privacy laws become and whether you wind up with public information which you can access to target or do you have to build your own ability to measure consumers than to target consumers.
And the question hasn't been resolved yet.
And I think it's going to take quite a while before some of these privacy issues do get resolved and I think that will dictate a good deal of the future.
The problem isn't lack of data.
There's always been too much data.
The problem is how do you make the data you have actionable and useful and where you can analyze it in a fashion that you can get insights and then act upon them in an appropriate amount of time.
Yes I think a couple of things to add.
One is to keep in mind that these trading platforms have only been around for a couple of years at this point.
So the development of them and how they're going to work out we have to realize that they're only a couple of years old.
Frankly being involved in them – with them there's a huge value in learning how they can work et cetera.
On a long-term basis it's not really about the technology.
It's about the insights in utilizing the technology or as John points out there's a lot of data but there's limited number of people that have the ability to get real insight out of that data.
That's what our ultimate business is.
Now in the early stages we have to be somewhat the technology player the data player because those things are all new.
But on a long-term basis it's going to be that insight that we can bring to our clients that's going to make the difference.
And just final point on it.
I think we're just at the beginning of the -- of where mobile will go.
And as more money gets spent and we become more efficient in reaching consumers using mobile devices because that remote control's with you 24 hours a day and generally always in your pocket whatever shifts we've seen up until now we're going to see yet another seismic shift.
And let me thank everyone for taking the time to listen to our call.
And I guess the fourth quarter's going to be on us...
Well the fourth quarter is on us.
Is on us.
The fourth quarter earnings will be here in no time.
Thank you again.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:30 Eastern Time today through October 17.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 259683.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to now introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our fourth quarter earnings call.
We hope everyone had a chance to review our earnings release.
We've posted to our website both the press release and our presentation covering the information that we'd be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
But before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included on the last page of our investor presentation.
I've also been asked to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that those statements are our present expectations and actual events or results may differ.
We also want to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
Now we're going to begin the call with remarks from John Wren.
Following John's remarks we'll review our financial performance for the quarter and then we'll open the call up for questions.
Good morning.
I'm pleased to speak to you this morning about our fourth quarter business results and the progress we are making against our key strategic initiatives and my thoughts about the rest of the year.
Hopefully all of you had a chance to review our financial results and have seen our press release this morning increasing our quarterly dividend 33% to $0.40 per share.
Thanks to an exceptional list of clients and the commitment talent and creativity of our people we finished the fourth quarter and the full year 2012 in a very strong position.
We enter into 2013 well prepared to respond to the continued changes in the marketplace.
While the macroeconomic environment appears to be stabilizing and even improving in some areas issues in several markets still remain unresolved.
As a result we plan for another year of modest global growth but remain nimble enough to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
At this point in our planning we remain focused on controlling our costs and increasing productivity.
But we are cautiously optimistic as we look into the latter part of 2013 and into 2014.
Let me discuss our key markets in more detail.
In the U.S.
the election has settled one set of questions but the long-term fiscal imbalances and the mounting government debt still need to be addressed.
The impending decisions to be made by Congress and the administration will impact overall economic growth this year.
As we have proven in the past our operations have consistently outperformed GDP in the U.S.
and we are hopeful that the slow but steady economic improvements we have seen will continue.
In Europe we sense greater stability but many markets remain weak and growth is likely to be slow for some time as governments pursue structural changes in their economies and continue to operate with fiscal restraint.
In the developing markets we see stronger growth particularly in Asia and Latin America as those economies appear to be navigating well despite challenges in other parts of the world.
For 2012 despite all the challenges offset in part by the Olympic contribution we generated solid organic growth and achieved our margin objectives.
Before getting into specifics of our fourth quarter and 2012 I'd like to highlight the strategies that have allowed us to continue to grow and achieve our results: first our investment in the best talent; next is our expansion of our global footprint and moving into new service areas; third investing in our digital and analytical capability and assets around the world; finally we continue to deliver innovative and integrated solutions using meaningful consumer insights across disciplines and platforms for the benefit of our clients.
Throughout the economic cycle we have maintained our investments in our talent development programs and these will continue as a key priority across our company.
It is this culture that allows our agencies to consistently attract the best talent which once again was recognized around the world for their work in 2012.
Let me mention just a few awards.
Adweek named PHD Media Agency of the Year.
DDB was Campaign's Advertising Network of the Year.
BBDO finished first in the Gunn Report 2012 Most Awarded Agency Networks in the World for the seventh year in a row and topped The Big Won awards for the sixth consecutive year.
Ketchum was named 2012 Agency of the Year by PRWeek.
And in December our agencies won a record number of creative awards at the 2012 Campaign Asia-Pacific and Greater China Agency of the Year awards held in Singapore and Shanghai significantly outpacing our competition.
I want to congratulate all of our employees and agencies for their outstanding creativity in 2012.
During the year we continue to expand our presence in key emerging markets through strategic acquisitions.
Most recently we completed the acquisition of Magnon Group one of India's leading and most comprehensive digital agencies.
And last year we also completed the acquisition of NIM Digital a leading agency in China specializing in media planning and buying search and digital production services.
And then in the fourth quarter we also acquired a number of companies that extended our capabilities in consumer insights and analytics.
Equally as important as these acquisitions are the ongoing organic investments we are making in our networks and agencies.
In 2012 our networks extended their geographic reach in countries including India Indonesia Pakistan and Vietnam and partnered with agencies in Miramar to support the efforts of our clients.
Our agencies are also experimenting with new technologies and building new platforms at an astonishing pace.
We continue to support them with the strategy that remains distinct in the industry by building our digital capabilities within our agencies not beside them.
From shopper marketing to CRM to PR to advertising and to media and across all of our disciplines I am extremely pleased with the ability of our agencies to innovate and be leaders in using the new digital mediums and technologies to better service our clients.
These new technologies are also generating terabytes of data that is changing the way advertisers buy and sell ads target audiences and measure campaigns' effectiveness.
At Annalect Omnicom's primary data and analytical business our team is aggressively working with partners and clients to collect this vast array of global and local data centralize it secure it analyze it and translate it empowering users to make better marketing decisions.
And our agencies are hiring talent with new skills sets such as PHDs behavioral analysts and data scientists to provide actionable insights using this trove of data.
These efforts are driving a tangible shift in how our agencies work together and are delivering benefits to our clients in the form of stronger more consistent and ultimately more effective communications.
And they're allowing us to deliver integrated campaigns across disciplines and platforms.
With that said technologies will come and go at mach speed.
We believe the world will become increasingly complex and fragmented.
As a result we've maintained an open partnership approach with technology leaders as opposed to making bets on specific platforms.
This approach allows us to have access to the latest technologies to adapt our services and seamlessly integrate digital within our clients' marketing strategy.
Overall these acquisitions investments and partnerships serve multiple roles in supporting our strategic direction expand our footprint increase our talent base and deepen our capabilities.
We've made tremendous progress in 2012 and we will continue to pursue these strategies in 2013 and beyond.
Now I want to talk briefly about how our efforts impacted the fourth quarter and 2012.
Organic growth in the fourth quarter was 2.7%.
This performance was driven by both the U.S.
and international markets with the notable exception of the euro countries which was a drag on growth.
For the full year organic growth was a very strong 4%.
Randy will cover the performance market by market during his remarks.
On the margin front we'd achieved our target margin for the year of 13.4%.
As you know this was the result of a thorough process to review our portfolio of businesses and drive operational improvements that began at the end of 2010.
Even with this progress we will continue to pursue operational improvements on an agency-by-agency basis in 2013.
Looking at our capital structure and use of cash during 2012.
We continued to look for ways to maximize the use of our strong cash flows while maintaining a solid balance sheet and we were successful on both counts.
For the year we returned over $1.2 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases while our credit ratings and leverage ratios remained extremely strong.
Since 2002 we have returned approximately 99% of net income to our shareholders.
Looking forward our philosophy on use of cash will be consistent with our past practices.
We will deliver steady cash payments through our dividends.
With our announcement to increase our dividend this morning we have doubled our dividend per share since 2010.
We will seek acquisitions that expand our capabilities in new practice areas and markets and we will continue to return cash to shareholders through share repurchases.
Similarly our core strategies to achieve growth remain the same: finding and retaining the best talent; build a presence in markets that matter today and into the future; improve operating margins through greater productivity; and create deep expertise and partnerships in consumer insights analytics social mobile and other emerging platforms.
As I visit our agencies I'm consistently impressed by the high caliber of talent that we have from management on down.
Our talent pool is also expanding as we grow our geographic footprint in developing markets.
Omnicom today operates at over 100 countries around the world.
Our focus on expanding our local presence is allowing us to better serve our global clients and is giving us access to local clients in the developing markets that may be the next decade's biggest brands.
Even as we expand we are driving greater collaboration and integration across our organization and particularly for our largest clients.
As a result we are seeing better communication more insights better creative and better business results on behalf of our clients.
I'll now turn the call back to Randy who will take you through the numbers.
Thank you John.
It was a good quarter and a good year.
There certainly was a lot going on this past year with the Olympics the U.S.
elections a sustained economic recession across much of Europe and at best a lackluster recovery in the U.S.
to mention a few.
But through it all I think our agencies performed exceptionally well.
And as John pointed out they again led the industry in each of the major markets around the world from a creative and innovation perspective.
They led the industry in organic growth by delivering innovative solutions to their clients using both new and established technologies.
And through relentless focus on cost control they were able to return our aggregate operating margins to their prerecession levels.
Now for the quarter.
Due to stronger-than-expected organic growth revenue for the quarter came in a little better than we had expected up 2.4% to $3.9 billion.
And that resulted in full year revenue of $14.2 billion which was an increase of 2.5%.
Organic growth for the quarter was 2.7% and was just over 4% for the full year.
Due to the outstanding efforts of our agency management teams in controlling cost EBITDA was very strong increasing 12.3% to $574 million for the quarter.
Margins were 14.5% up about 120 basis points from last year.
And as expected due to the combination of solid organic growth and our agencies' focus on containing cost we were able to return our full year EBITDA margin to our 2007 level of 13.4%.
Similarly operating income or EBIT for the quarter increased 12.4% to $548 million and our resulting operating margin was 13.9% also a year-over-year improvement of about 120 basis points.
On Slide 2 we'll address the items below operating income.
First net interest expense for the quarter was $40.3 million up $10 million from Q4 of last year and effectively unchanged from Q3.
The year-over-year increase is due to interest on the $1.25 billion of 10-year notes we issued in Q2 and Q3 then partially offset by additional interest income earned on our cash balances.
Next is taxes.
Our effective tax rate decreased to 27% for Q4 and to 31.8% for the full year.
There were several items both positive and negative that impacted our taxes this quarter.
The 2 larger items were: first income tax expense was reduced by $53 million primarily as a result of the completion in Q4 of a reorganization of our holdings in the Asia Pacific region.
As a result our unremitted earnings in the affected countries in the region will be subject to a lower effective tax rate.
Accordingly we reduced our deferred tax liabilities to reflect these lower rates.
And second we took a tax charge of approximately $16 million in the quarter related to our an ongoing state and local tax audit.
The good news going forward we expect the recurring benefit of the reorganization to be approximately $11 million per year which should bring our normal operating tax rate down from 34.3% to about 33.6%.
Next income from equity method investments or affiliates was down about $34 million from last year.
In the quarter we recorded an impairment charge related to our investment in an affiliate in Egypt.
While the affiliate continues to be one of the leading agency groups in Egypt due to the political and economic issues in the country over the past couple of years this financial performance has lagged.
As a result we determined that our investment was impaired and we took a charge of $29.2 million.
Excluding the impairment income from our equity method investments declined by $4.5 million in part because we no longer record affiliate income from our Turkish affiliate after making an additional investment which resulted in that agency becoming a consolidated subsidiary.
The balance was due to a combination of FX and operating performance.
And finally income allocated to noncontrolling interest or our minority partners increased by $1.2 million.
That was mostly related to the positive performance of those agencies.
As a result net income for Q4 increased 12.9% to $307 million bringing our full year net income up to $998 million.
On Slide 3 we show the allocation of net income to common shareholders and to participating securities for [ph] our restricted stock.
Net income for common shareholders increased 11.7% to $300 million.
This chart also shows our diluted share count.
As a result of our ongoing share repurchase activities our diluted share count for the quarter was down year-over-year about 5.3%.
The combination of increased net income and reduced share count resulted in diluted EPS of $1.13 which was a 17.7% increase.
On the next few slides we'll take a closer look at our revenue performance first with regard to FX.
Unlike in previous quarters in Q4 the dollar had mixed performance.
Some of the larger markets that the dollar weakened against include the British pound the Canadian dollar the renminbi and the Aussie dollar; and the larger markets having a negative impact include the euro the real the rupee and the yen.
The net result reduced our revenue for the quarter by 0.7% or about $28 million.
Looking ahead if FX rate stays at their current levels the FX impact on revenue would be minimal in Q1 and would be marginally positive for full year 2013.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased our revenue by $15 million in the quarter or 0.4%.
We completed 5 new acquisitions in the quarter and I believe 14 over the course of the year.
At this point if we don't complete another acquisition or disposition we expect net acquisition revenue to be positive about 50 basis points in Q1 and would be positive about 20 basis points for the full year.
With regard to organic revenue growth as I mentioned it was a little bit stronger than we had expected coming into the quarter but performance has been increasingly mixed by market and industry sector.
Overall organic growth was positive 2.7% or about $105 million in the quarter.
In general we have performed well in North America South America Asia and Russia but Europe weakened further in a number of markets.
And our new business performance continue to be solid in the quarter with net wins of right around $1 billion.
Turning to our mix of business on Slide 5.
Brand advertising accounted for 49% of our revenue and marketing services 51%.
As for their respective organic growth rates brand advertising was up 5.4% driven by continued strong growth in our media businesses emerging markets and new technology services and marketing services was up 0.2%.
Within marketing services CRM was down 1.6% in the quarter in part due to weakness in Europe and in part due to the performance of our field marketing businesses.
Public relations had a great quarter up 8.4%.
Our large PR networks have been doing well for a couple of quarters now but it wasn't really translating to the numbers.
It was nice to see their great work come through to the results this quarter.
And finally specialty communications was basically flat which was a significant improvement over the last several quarters.
Turning to Slide 6 and 7.
Our geographic mix of business in the quarter was split: 51% U.S.; 17% euro markets; 9% U.K.; and 23% rest of the world.
In the United States revenue increased $98 million or 5.1%.
Organic growth was 5% or $96 million.
The strong performance is led by our media businesses.
But generally we had good performance across our agencies.
And acquisitions net of dispositions was marginally positive adding $2.4 million.
International revenue decreased $6 million or about 0.3%.
As mentioned earlier FX continue to have a negative impact resulting in a decline of about 1.5% or $28 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by about $13 million or 0.7%.
And organic growth in the aggregate was positive $9.2 million or 0.5%.
As I mentioned it was very mixed by market.
In our larger European markets Russia continue to perform very well while the U.K.
France and Germany remained weak.
And in aggregate the Eurozone markets were down 3.7%.
In Asia we continue to have strong performances across the region with India Japan Hong Kong Singapore and Indonesia leading the way this quarter.
And in Latin America our Brazilian operations continue to perform very well.
Slide 8 shows our mix of business by industry.
Given the size and diversity of our client base at this point our mix of business by industry sector is pretty stable.
As for growth rates for the year we had very strong performance in retail driven by a combination of new business wins and client increases but we also had good performance in the auto and technology sectors.
On the other side of the spectrum financial services was pulled down by the loss of Bank of America and telecom was impacted by the loss of Sprint.
Turning to Slide 9.
We had another good cash flow year.
In aggregate our free cash flow increased about $179 million over last year that is excluding changes in working capital.
On Slide 10 the breakdown of primary uses of cash for the year included dividends to common shareholders of $398 million.
The year-over-year increase reflects both the 20% increase in our quarterly dividend that we instituted at the beginning of last year and the acceleration of our January dividend into Q4 in effect paying 5 quarterly dividends in 2012.
Dividends paid to our minority interest shareholders totaled $98 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $226 million.
As we've mentioned before CapEx was up due to a couple of sizable office makeovers related to long-term lease renewals.
We also had the purchase of an office building for one of our agencies and our ongoing IT consolidation initiatives.
Acquisitions including contingent purchase price payments totaled $188 million and share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances totaled $832 million.
In aggregate we outspent our free cash flow by about $317 million for the year.
Slide 11 shows our current capital structure.
Year-over-year our total debt increased by about $1.3 billion to $4.46 billion almost entirely related to the issuance of the $1.25 billion in 10-year senior notes during the second and third quarters of the year.
More important our net debt position at the end of the year was $1.76 billion an increase of $368 million from last year.
As a result of the increased debt our total-debt-to-EBITDA ratio increased to 2.1x although our net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio remained very low at 0.8x and our interest coverage ratio remains robust at 11.6x.
On Slide 12 as we continue to successfully build the company through a combination of prudently-priced acquisitions and well-focused internal development initiatives both our return on invested capital and return on equity continue to lead the industry.
For the last 12 months our return on invested capital remained pretty stable at 18.6% and our return on equity improved a little further to 28.7%.
And finally on Slide 13 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders.
The line on the top of the chart shows our cumulative net income from 2002 through year-end which totaled $9.12 billion.
And the line just below the top line shows our cumulative return of cash to shareholders including both dividends and net share repurchases which totaled $9.05 billion.
The result is a combined payout ratio of almost 99%.
I also want to point out that during that period our agencies were able to more than double revenue from $6.9 billion to $14.2 billion.
And more important they were able to more than double our net income from $455 million to $998 million.
With that that concludes our prepared remarks.
There are several other supplemental slides included in the presentation but at this point we're going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to James Dix with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things.
I guess one what was driving the particularly strong growth organically that you saw in the U.S.
in the fourth quarter? I know you've in the past cautioned people not to focus too much on particular quarters in particular regions but it is an important region for you.
And then just looking into 2013.
I mean is your outlook for the U.S.
at the moment kind of in line with your outlook for kind of modest global growth? Or is your outlook for the U.S.
a little bit faster or slower than that? First with respect to the fourth quarter.
I think we've been saying this consistently for a very long period of time.
There's a certain element of budget which is very difficult to predict as to whether clients are going to spend it or if it's actionable if they're going to delay spending.
What we saw throughout the quarter especially after the election in the U.S.
was a commitment by clients to continue to spend those budgets to try to increase their market share.
And that's the attitude today across the board I think on most of our major clients especially in the U.S.
At this point in terms of what we expect there's still a bit of uncertainty out there and from a consumer point of view we haven't had enough time nor data to measure the impact of the -- not the upper-bracket tax rates but the payroll tax -- $1 000 that Congress took away.
And there's still uncertainty on the part of many clients as to how the U.S.
government is going to deal with sequester.
So it's a little bit too early for us to give you an accurate prediction but we're planning our business for modest growth.
And being a service business we think that's prudent because that helps us contain costs while staying nimble enough as I said earlier to take advantage of spending as it comes through.
Research Division</strong> This growth -- I mean do you mean like growth slightly lower than what you saw in 2012? I know at some conferences you've made some allusions to what you mean by that.
But if you had any more granularity given this opportunity that would be great and then I'm done.
This is Randy.
My personal view is 2013 feels a lot like 2012 from I'll say an economic backdrop standpoint.
But we don't have the Olympics this year.
So I certainly think there's a little bit of spending a little bit of revenue on our numbers yes associated with the Olympics that's likely not to be there next year.
That's probably about as accurate as we can get at this point.
Next question is from Alexia Quadrani with; JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is just on the euro markets and the softening we saw on the quarter.
I guess any comment on how that progressed.
I mean did it get worse as the quarter went on? Should we assume it will continue to weaken a bit in the first quarter? Or should it be -- are you looking at a bit more stability in 2013? I know it's difficult to predict but any color you can give us would be great.
Some of the decline were -- can be tracked to specific client reductions as opposed to economic situations.
The marketplace there -- I mean Europe is in an uncertain position.
We don't expect any vast improvements any time soon.
And we're planning accordingly Alexia so -- and hopeful that were -- that it's brighter than that but I...
Yes I think that's right.
I mean I can't tell you how they tracked over the course of the quarter.
I haven't looked at that.
I do think the positive performance that we had in Europe was literally driven by strong specific agency performance new business wins innovative ideas for clients that drove the growth rather than economic growth.
Research Division</strong> I guess in terms of how you're budgeting you're not necessarily assuming a step-down or are you just being very careful on cost because you don't really know what the environment will come out in? Sure we're not planning a step-down at this point but we're not planning any outbreak of growth either so it's a steady-state.
Plus costs there if you make the mistake of adding them they get to be very expensive when you try to take them out.
So we've been prudent but we haven't -- there hasn't been a dramatic change.
Research Division</strong> And then jumping back to the U.S.
The decrease in the pharma client base seem to have lessened a bit.
Do you think we're sort of over the worst in that sector in terms of the dropoff? Or do you think it'd still be a challenge in '13? I think we're -- a lot of what affected our pharma business is probably behind us as -- so that's a great area for us I think in 2013 as we move forward.
Our next question is from Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wondering if you could offer a little bit more color on emerging markets.
For the last 8 quarters or so -- or I guess I should say rest of world segment instead.
For the last 8 quarters or so we've seen a significant outperformance versus the U.S.
This quarter is only 1 quarter we realize but just wondering if you could give us some color on your expectations for 2013 whether we could see an outperformance in rest of world or whether you think this 1 quarter portends a bit of a trend here.
And then secondly if you could give us any CapEx guidance for the year.
We expect Asia to continue at or around the same pace that we saw in the fourth quarter.
It's been strong.
There's a lot of client activity going on.
Clients have diverted money that was spent in other places to Asia because that's where the consumer seems the healthiest.
And Japan showed signs of vitality in the fourth quarter and we expect that to continue also at least for the first half.
LLC Research Division</strong> Where there any particular areas of weakness in rest of world? Or is this indicative of maybe agency performance the deceleration or a macro? For rest of world? I think our rest of world numbers were -- I felt they were pretty good.
We had strong performance in Brazil Russia Singapore India.
This quarter Japan which is a large market for us -- it's obviously a large market and hasn't been a fairly robust economic backdrop so our agencies in that market this quarter performed very well in that backdrop.
The Middle East has been I'll say mixed at times.
That probably covers most of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then Randy any CapEx guidance for the year given the level of investments this year? I think it will be probably down a little bit from this year.
As I mentioned in 2012 we had a couple large real estate projects going on.
We bought a building for one of our agencies so that was $15 million $16 million.
Obviously not a huge building.
We still have some IT consolidation initiatives going on that will increase CapEx relative to a normal base.
But I don't know of any major moves or rebuilds at this point.
So I would suspect it will come down a little bit.
Next we'll go to Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
Hearing your comments on the top line could you please give a little color on the cost side for 2013? Understanding that you are paying your staff and just wondering what sort of internal cost you may yet be able to squeeze out.
And in that context if there is any sort of comment you could give on guidance on margins for '13 please.
We -- at this point we have to manage our agencies' margins agency by agency.
We certainly have some agencies that are not performing at I'll say the appropriate margin level for them or their type of business and we need to try to get them -- their costs more aligned with where their revenues and where their business is at.
Overall it's a difficult cost environment.
We're 4 or 5 years into a relatively difficult economic environment in 65% or 70% of our revenue markets so basically U.S.
and Europe.
So trying to hold costs flat or low growth is very difficult for that length of time.
I feel comfortable being able to match our 2012 margins and continue to -- and have us continue to be able to invest in the growth and the development of the business that we've been doing and that we want to do.
After that we'll see how the margins ultimately work out but our focus is on getting all of our agencies' margins right agency by agency and continue to invest in our people and our business.
Okay.
And your acquisition number was slightly lower in 2012 than previous -- many previous years I guess.
Is there any comment on acquisition pipeline for 2013 please? The pipeline is always good.
What generally makes the difference in CapEx is if you -- if we're able to complete 1 or 2 large or midsized deals.
In 2011 that would have been Mudra and I think Communispace and Clemenger I guess.
We didn't have deals -- we didn't have any deals of that size in 2012.
I'm hopeful in 2013 that we will but that's -- those deals are much more difficult to predict I'll say statistically.
As far as another 10 to 15 similar acquisitions that we did in 2012 I think there's a pretty high probability that that will occur.
Our next question is from Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 probably for Randy but maybe questions for John too.
Looking at your Slide 13 you look at the long-term return of capital to shareholders and it's pretty impressive but the mix of the returns about 75% buybacks and 1/4 dividends.
And I wonder looking at the next couple of years do you see those 2 areas converging a bit maybe raising the dividend at the expense of the buybacks? How do you think about the blend of capital returns? Well as John just pointed out since 2010 we've doubled the dividend.
We had a 33% increase in the dividend this year.
So I think that's pretty much a sign that our expectation is that the dividend as a percentage of our payout is likely to go up.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a range of where you can get it to you think in terms of how you think about the payout ratio? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay so let me ask you this on -- can you help us a bit on Q4 revenue the expense line for O&amp;G and salary? Rather than waiting for the K to come out I wonder if you can give it to us.
If you just give us 1 second -- or maybe more than 1 second.
Yes why don't we go on and take another question and when we get to the answer we'll say it in the middle of the next question.
And we'll go to Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> My question is somewhat related.
Do you have any sense of what your year-end headcount was? Yes.
It was around 72 000 plus or minus a little bit.
Maybe -- I don't have it exact off the top of my head 71 000-and-something the way we count it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then...
71 099.
Research Division</strong> 71 099? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then excluding acquisition impact is it fair to say that given the revenue outlook which is constructive but still a little iffy that that should be a relatively flat number in '13? Our objective is not to -- we're expecting to grow there in 2013.
But our expectations is that we're hiring behind our revenue not in advance of our revenue in most instances.
Unless we're making an investment from a -- in a startup.
There's 1 or 2 considered but it won't drastically change that number.
And also keep in mind that we have a mix of businesses that headcount to revenue -- and we have a mix of countries that headcount to revenue are quite different.
So I mean if you're trying to use headcount as a proxy for something you're probably not really doing yourself a good analysis.
Research Division</strong> A lot of noise in the number basically.
Okay.
We're in a lot of countries in a lot of different businesses.
They're service businesses and we're largely getting paid our cost of labor plus overhead in a margin and that labor varies by skill level quite dramatically and by country quite dramatically.
Our next question is from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I got a couple.
I wanted to ask you about a couple...
Let me interrupt for 1 -- just 1 second and answer -- I think it was Peter's question.
So salary and service costs in -- for the year was $10 380 700 and office and general was $2 034 500 000.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Hopefully that doesn't count as my question.
All right okay.
So moving forward so a couple of numbers you've spoken to in the past either at conferences or on earnings calls I think you had talked about '13 feeling like a 2% to 3% top line year versus the 4% in '12.
You called out the Olympics and some -- obviously it was a political year but just wanted to see if that was still how you were feeling about things or maybe if there were some -- more upside potential than you thought a couple of months ago.
And then the second number would be percent of free cash flow on dividends buybacks and acquisitions.
I think you did about 20% above your free cash in '12.
You're carrying $2.7 billion of cash.
I didn't know if that was because of the converts that are puttable coming up or anything else you'd speak to but any help on the free cash flow spending appetite this year would also be helpful.
Okay.
Let's see a few questions here.
So I'll give you the free cash flow.
That's probably the easiest.
We issued the bonds last year and we said that we would outspend our free cash flow in the $300 million to $500 million per year range for the next couple of years.
We outspent our free cash flow in 2012 by about $313 million.
I suspect we'll outspend our free cash flow in '13 by again $300 million to $500 million with that combination of dividends buybacks and acquisitions.
I made a statement earlier in the year trying to think about '13 versus '12.
At the time I felt '13 felt a little bit more difficult than '12.
That was a few months ago.
That was kind of right around the end of the elections and wrestling with what people were going to -- what the administration was going to do.
So I think today I think -- and again it's relatively unscientific.
I think '13 probably feels pretty much like it felt going into '12 except for the Olympics.
I think the Olympics probably added maybe 0.5 point to our revenue growth -- or to our revenue in 2012.
So if that -- if we said we thought '12 was going to be 3.5% to 4% organic growth I guess that would make it sort of 3% to 3.5% organic growth is the way it feels at that -- but again it's pretty early in the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And can I just take a stab at the rest of world question again? For the first 9 months that business was organically up 11% and then 4.4% in Q4.
And doesn't sound like your -- from your comments earlier there's anything to that that we should read going forward.
But I just wanted to revisit that one more time.
Could you repeat that question for us please? Research Division</strong> Yes.
The rest of world category was up 11% I think for the first 9 months ending in the third quarter.
And then for Q4 just the organic growth it was up 4.4%.
And obviously that's got Asian and Latin American in there.
So I just didn't know if there's anything -- I think there was a question earlier.
It didn't sound like there was anything to it but I wanted to ask just since it's such an important region.
I don't think there's anything in the numbers.
Again I wouldn't look at any individual quarter.
I'd really look at full year numbers.
I think our agencies in those markets are doing quite well.
We do -- as they grow they become bigger numbers to grow on which by definition over time will slow the growth rates down a little bit.
But the region will become more impactful which is obviously positive.
Our next question is from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
This is Greg Stein for Craig Huber.
I was just wondering what the project-related revenue was in 4Q '12 and then also what it was year ago as well.
I don't know.
That's not something that we break out or collect.
Okay.
How about I guess just your outlook for next year on auto? This year you had a strong year up 15%.
What are you seeing for 2013? I think the auto sector overall looks relatively positive.
And during the market commentary people think the U.S.
auto unit sales as an industry will be up in 2013 so that's obviously a positive.
The auto sector is one that our revenues have tracked I think fairly well to global auto sales.
So it should be -- if auto sales do take the positive trend people are talking about it should be positive for our revenues in the sector.
Okay.
And finally sorry to be this specific but I was wondering if you'd potentially break out your interest expense and interest income lines? We'll get that number for you in 1 second.
Also I want to go back and I'll say finish answering Peter's question.
I gave you the breakout of salary and service and office and general for the full year.
For Q4 the numbers were $2 889 100 000 for salary and service and $507.5 million for office and general.
And for interest expense and interest income let's see.
I guess full year numbers interest expense was $179.7 million and interest income was $35.1 million.
Given that we're getting pretty close here to 9:30 so we'll take one more question.
That will be from the line of David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So 2 things.
First John spent a lot of time at the beginning of the call talking about technology and digital.
And you tend to capture more wallet share for yourselves rather than passing it onto media operators with digital I would think.
Can you talk about the time frame at which you think this -- could it lead to sort of a breakout beyond typical historical growth rates when you start skewing more digital after investing in it? And second question is can you give us a little update about how things are going at Commonwealth and review for us where the accounting for Commonwealth is? Is it consolidated? And where is -- is it a consolidator account for a JV? Look complexity is our friend.
There's no doubt about it because the more fragmented the market is and the more complex it is in terms of reaching the target audiences it takes more very very smart insightful people to accomplish that.
That's a long-term trend and it continues.
I don't see it as a major breakout impacting our numbers within the near term more -- in any great variance to the steady state of growth that we've had.
There's a lot on the horizon and we think that trend is going to continue into the future.
And it's again good for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> So even if you went out like 3 to 5 years do you think it would have the ability to kind of move the needle beyond average growth? I think it's moving the needle now.
It will continue to move the needle.
You have to keep in mind it's a very large industry.
We're in a lot of different marketing areas and it's a fairly concentrated industry.
New technologies are allowing marketing to evolve.
But I don't think there's a revolution in the change of what's going on.
And is it possible the revolution will happen sometime in the future? I think it's possible.
It's certainly not something that we predict at this point.
And technological ability to do things and permission to do things are really at the core of some of this.
If you look at privacy policy in the United States versus privacy policy in Europe which -- and who will -- they are different and both regions are taking different approaches.
And we don't know how the rest of the world is -- which policy the rest of the world is going to lean into.
So the more targeting that we can do the better it is because it's a greater ROI for the client and everything becomes more and more measurable.
So that's the move.
But there's a number of open questions but it's positive at the back of our business.
And on Commonwealth we account for the revenues going to our agencies or the work being performed by our agencies and IPG accounts for the revenue and the profits of the work that their agencies are doing.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it's just consolidated in -- within the agencies right? And so...
Yes.
Each of us consolidate our piece.
Neither one of us consolidates the aggregate of Commonwealth.
So they -- IPG gets and it consolidates the revenue of the work their agencies do and we would consolidate the revenue of the work our agencies do.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does the development with Silverado and some of the account shifts like did they move the needle at all this year? Does it affect the venture? Can you talk a little bit about that? No it -- I mean to a company our size one account doesn't really move the needle one way or the other.
Thank you all very much and thank you for taking the time to listen to our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our first quarter earnings call.
We hope everyone's had a chance to review our earnings release.
We have posted to our website both the press release and a presentation covering the information that we'll be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included at the end of the presentation.
I'd like to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that those statements are our present expectations and actual events or results may differ.
We also want to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about our performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
Now we're going to begin the call with brief remarks from John Wren.
Following John's remarks we'll review our financial performance for the quarter and then we'll open up the call for questions.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
I'm pleased to speak to you about our latest business results and the progress we're making against our key financial and strategic initiatives.
2013 is off to a good start.
Organic growth was 2.9% for the quarter.
Our margin performance and free cash flow were on plan.
On our year-end results call I said we expected modest growth for 2013.
Our expectations have not changed.
Today the global economy appears to be operating at 3 speeds.
Asia and Latin America remain strong the U.S.
continues to experience slow but steady growth and the most challenging region continues to be the Eurozone.
Against this backdrop we have sharpened our focus on things we can control.
We are working with our agencies in key markets to take advantage of growth opportunities as they arise and our managers remain focused on controlling our cost structure.
I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing some of the strategies that are essential to our growth.
First acquiring and retaining the best talent; second expanding our geographic footprint and service offerings to our clients; third continuing to invest in our digital and analytical capabilities in all key markets around the world; and finally delivering innovative and integrated solutions based on meaningful consumer insights.
Our ongoing investments in our recruitment initiatives talent management and training programs are helping us increase the diversity and skills of the many talented individuals at our agencies.
Across our organization we are also focused on supporting our clients' efforts to grow their business in markets around the world.
We are expanding our geographic footprint in rapidly growing economies in Asia Latin America Africa and the Middle East through prudent acquisitions and focused organic investments.
Meeting our clients' needs is the first test for all our acquisitions and investments followed by cultural fit and price.
We remain steadfast in this approach.
As the pace of innovation accelerates new platforms are emerging on almost a daily basis.
Experience tells us that these platforms will come and go in shorter and shorter cycles.
We've adapted an open-source approach to partnering with media data and research companies.
This strategy allows us to employ the latest technologies and at the same time reduces our investments in or acquisitions of technology that may become outdated.
Another important benefit of this strategy is that many of these technologies are enabling us to capture filter and analyze large amounts of data transforming the way our agencies leverage information to drive business results for our clients.
Annalect our primary data and analytics business is aggressively working with our agencies clients and partners to collect data in real time and convert it into actionable consumer insights.
Executing on our core strategies investing in talent digital and analytical capabilities expanding our footprint and service capabilities and delivering actionable insights and integrated solutions will allow us to further excel in innovation creativity and grow the company.
Now I'd like to turn my attention to the first quarter.
As I mentioned organic growth globally was up 2.9%.
With the exception of the euro markets all of our major regions experienced solid growth.
By regions the U.S.
had 4.1% organic growth.
We remain optimistic that the U.S.
economy will continue to improve for the balance of the year.
In Europe the U.K.
experienced organic growth of 2.3%.
Euro markets had negative organic growth of 3.7%.
Almost every year a country is being impacted by the broad economic slump in the region.
At this point we expect volatility to continue as France makes adjustments to reach budget objectives and Germany prepares for federal elections this September.
Our European agencies outside the euro currency markets turned in positive results as did our businesses in Asia and Latin America.
I will now turn the call back to Randy who will take you through our numbers in more detail.
Thank you John.
Q1 was a good start to the new year.
Revenue came in at just below $3.4 billion which was an increase of 2.8%.
Organic growth was at the high end of our expectations for this quarter at 2.9%.
I'll address our revenue growth in detail in a few minutes.
EBITDA and operating income.
Due to the continued efforts of our agency management teams in controlling our cost structures EBITDA increased 2.7% to $397 million and our EBITDA margin was 11.7% which was in line with Q1 of last year.
Operating income or EBIT for the quarter increased 2.5% to $372 million and the resulting operating margin was 10.9%.
Slide 2 addresses the items below operating income.
First net interest expense for the quarter was $40.9 million up $11.7 million from Q1 of last year but up only $600 000 from Q4.
The year-over-year increase is primarily due to interest expense on the $1.25 billion of 10-year notes we issued in Qs 2 and 3 of last year.
On the tax front our reported rate for the quarter was 33% up slightly from Q1 last year.
As we mentioned during our call in February resulting benefit from our Asia-Pac reorganization should bring our normal operating tax rate down to about 33.6% for the full year.
Also this quarter we had a couple of small onetime or discrete items that impacted the rate positively.
Earnings from our affiliates increased to $3.2 million this quarter and the allocation of earnings to the minority shareholders and our less than fully owned subsidiaries decreased $1.7 million to $19.7 million mainly as the result of the performance of our European operation.
As a result of all of that net income was $205 million for the quarter.
On Slide 3 we show the allocation of net income to common shareholders and to participating securities which for us is our restricted stock.
Year-over-year the amount increased by $900 000.
This chart also shows our diluted share count.
As a result of our ongoing focus on returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases our diluted share count for the quarter was down year-over-year about 5.2%.
The combination of net income and reduced share count resulted in diluted EPS of $0.76 per share.
On the next few slides we take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX on a year-over-year basis the dollar strengthened against the yen British pound real the Aussie dollar and the rupee and it weakened against the Euro the RMB the sing dollar and the yuan.
The net result reduced our revenue for the quarter by 0.06% or about $20 million.
Looking ahead if the FX rates stay at current levels the impact on revenue will be negative about 20 basis points in Q2 and about the same amount for the full year.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $15.4 million in the quarter or about 0.05%.
Looking ahead if we don't complete another acquisition we would expect net acquisition revenue to remain marginally positive in Q2.
Now with regard to organic revenue growth it was a very solid quarter up 2.9% or about $96 million.
As I mentioned the performance was at the high-end of our expectations coming into the quarter.
I should also point out but I believe most of you already know we're up against pretty strong comps from the first half of last year where we had over 5% organic growth each quarter.
Turning to our mix of business on Slide 5.
Brand advertising accounted for 49% of our revenue and marketing services 51%.
As for their respective organic growth rates brand advertising was up 6.1% led by continuing strong performance in our media businesses and our marketing services sector was up 0.01%.
Within marketing services CRM was down in the quarter.
Strength in our field marketing businesses domestically as well as in China was offset in part by the performance of our events businesses which last year benefited from Olympics-related activities.
Public relations was up 1.9% reflecting improved performance in our markets outside of Europe and specialty communications was up 1% overall.
While our recruiting businesses continue to be down our health care businesses had a very solid quarter driven by strong new business performance.
Turning to Slide 6.
Our geographic mix of business in the quarter was split 53% domestic; and 47% international.
In the United States revenue increased $72 million or 4.2%.
Organic growth remained very strong at 4.1% or $70 million again led this quarter by the strong performance of our media business and acquisitions net of dispositions was marginally positive adding $2.2 million.
International revenue increased $19 million or 1.2%.
As I mentioned FX continued to have a negative impact resulting in a decline of 1.2% or about $20 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $13 million and organic growth in aggregate was positive $26 million or 1.6% but again organic growth continues to be extremely mixed by market.
In our larger European markets Russia Turkey and the U.K.
had positive performances.
In the Eurozone Spain continued to do well while France and Germany were both down.
In aggregate the Euro countries were down 3.7%.
In Asia we continue to have strong performances across the region with China Hong Kong India Japan and Singapore leading our effort and in Latin America our operation in Brazil continues to lead the region.
Slide 7 shows our mix of business by industry.
On a percentage basis there were no significant changes in our mix of business this quarter compared to Q1 of 2012.
As for growth rates we had good performances in consumer products technology pharma and T&amp;E sectors.
On the other side of the spectrum financial services continues to be difficult.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our cash performance in the quarter was in line with our expectations.
We generated approximately $302 million of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
On Slide 9 you can see the breakdown of our primary uses of cash during the quarter.
They included dividends paid to our minority interest shareholders of $23 million capital expenditures of $38 million.
Acquisitions including earnout payments net of proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $17 million and share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $238 million.
As you may recall we accelerated the payment of our Q4 dividend from early January to December.
As a result there was no dividend payment in Q1.
So all in we outspent our free cash flow by about $15 million in the quarter.
Slide 10 shows our current capital structure.
Year-over-year our total debt increased to $4.46 billion almost entirely related to the $1.25 billion of 10-year senior notes we issued during Q2 and Q3 of 2012.
Our net debt position at the end of the quarter was $2.37 billion which was an increase of around $680 million from last year.
The year-over-year increase was due to our share repurchase activity last year and an increase in working capital at the end of Q1 which was mostly the result of the quarter ending on the Easter holiday.
As a result of the increased debt our total debt-to-EBITDA ratio increased to 2.1x and our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.1x.
Our interest coverage ratio remains very strong at 11x.
On Slide 11 both our return on invested capital and return on equity continue to lead the industry and both increased further for the last 12 months.
Our return on invested capital increased to 17.7% and our return on equity improved to almost 30%.
And finally on Slide 12 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders.
As you can see for the period from 2002 to the just completed quarter the cumulative return of cash to shareholders has now matched our cumulative net income for the same period at $9.3 billion.
This is largely the result of our share repurchase activities.
However over the last couple of years we've made a point to significantly increase our dividend payout ratio.
And that concludes our prepared remarks.
There are several other supplemental slides included in the presentation but at this point we're going to ask the operator to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from the line of James Dix with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
I guess if you could give any comments on the changes at Chevrolet and then just looking beyond the auto category.
How do you see the current environment in terms of opportunities to pick up large-scale new business? And then second when it comes to application of data for your clients has it generally been more about providing the same impact in terms of whatever KPIs are important for those clients at a lower cost? Or are you seeing opportunities to actually apply data to uncover new demand at a similar cost? With respect to Chevrolet there are 2 components of it of the business that we have with them.
One was the advertising business with Goodby Silverstein and the other was with another agency called 720.
720 continues its relationship with Chevy and Commonwealth and for the quarter there wasn't any impact at all.
And most of the analytics that -- it's a very broad question.
What we're able to do and increasingly able to do is do better targeting grab better insights and that's what most of the work has been focused on with respect to the majority of the work we're doing in that area.
New business -- big opportunities in new business come across periodically and I think our agencies do very well at it.
Where I think we really excel is frankly the day in and day out it's agencies coming up with innovative solutions innovative ways of bringing new ideas to the clients that continue to drive our growth and importance to the client and hopefully help drive the clients' results over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just one follow-up.
So I take it that the changes at Chevrolet have not had a material impact on your outlook for growth this year? No nor could they.
And we have a question from the line of John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> When you guys look at your U.S.-based multinational clients have they been shifting money out of Europe maybe to faster-growing markets and generally keeping the budget intact? Or is Europe pressuring their global spend? It's not something that we track quite that way.
I would probably hypothesized that most companies have to manage their global P&amp;L.
So obviously if people have difficulties in one market no different than for us with negative organic growth in Europe it certainly puts pressure on the company globally because again we're reporting one set of numbers.
We're breaking the numbers out but the aggregate performance is what counts.
And I might add that and this is not necessarily responsive to the question you had asked but Europe is still a big market.
There's still a lot of that activity that goes on in Europe and it's going to continue.
It's not growing at the moment but the growth is marginal when you compare it to the base.
Research Division</strong> And also Randy auto has been a strong category for you at least through the last 12 months before the March quarter.
Is the weakness primarily from Europe or is growth just normalizing there? We basically had a flat quarter in auto and it will be consistent.
I always told people you shouldn't look at one quarter's numbers especially when you break it down into small segments.
It could be timing.
It could be a lot of things that are impacting the number and again the numbers -- flat isn't -- it's not stellar.
It's not -- we're not looking for flat numbers but flat is not bad.
We have a question from the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research.
I've got a couple of housekeeping questions first.
I mean typically you'll talk about your new client billings for the quarter.
I guess your normal goal was about $1 billion on net basis.
How did that performed in the quarter? And I also wanted to ask can you break apart your salary and service cost line versus your office and general expense line please? Yes.
So net new business was just over $1 billion.
So it wasn't a stellar quarter but it was a solid quarter.
So I said a lot of that's made up of a large number of small wins and expansions with clients.
And the breakout of salary and service and office in general salary and service was $2 533 600 000 and office in general was $493 600 000.
And then also John or Randy your expectation for modest organic growth this year just to sort of parse those at you is that sort of like 3% to 3.5% growth you're sort of expecting for this year? Yes it wasn't a guidance but the discussion we had at the end of the year and last quarter was we expect -- we felt -- we think this year kind of feels like 2012 except for the Olympics.
And we thought the Olympics probably added maybe 1/2 to 3/4 of a point.
So if that works out exactly that will be sort of in that 3% to 3.5% range.
And then lastly if I could when you think about the outlook here for the remaining part of the year for your euro-denominated markets is your sense that things are getting a little bit worse there a little bit better? What's your sort of sense there for sort of what's your expectation what happened here in the last quarter? I think Europe's going through a difficult time and I think everybody and it's been discussed at length the troubles that Southern Europe's having.
Our business is stabilized I would say in the south.
And now what we saw in the first quarter was setbacks in France and in Germany which are bigger markets for us but not overwhelmingly large.
And in addition to the concern that's in Europe you have France trying to meet its budget objectives and you have the Germans preparing for federal elections in September and they are the banker to Europe so there's a bit of conservatism there.
So it can improve.
I know in the future it will improve.
I don't know how fast.
I don't know if it's going to happen within the next 2 quarters or in the next year but you have a sense that they'll work their way through it.
We have a question from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Any color you can give us on how you're doing in terms of protecting profitability in the euro market given the weakness there? I know it's not an easy market to necessarily make short-term cuts in.
And then just following up on your comment about the softness in CRM in the quarter being from the difficult comps in the event business can you remind us how long those comps last or should we see better numbers maybe in Q2? The tough comps on some of the CRM businesses really runs through the first half probably even a little bit more in the second quarter than the first quarter.
As far as margins in Europe go it's very difficult to manage margins.
I think our agencies are doing a good job.
They have to continue to do a good job.
Certainly in a negative organic growth rate environment is extremely difficult for service companies to hold their margins.
Again our agencies have I think done fairly well but they need to stay focused even though it's tough.
You have a question from the line of Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question I have John and Randy we all sort of hang on every single word of yours on these conference calls including the tone.
And as I remember at the beginning of the year when you spoke in an Investor Conference the market read some of your comments as having an improved tone over what you had said at the end of the fourth quarter.
Now I know you're not changing your non-guidance for the full year organic growth but are you feeling any differently about your outlook which includes modest growth now relative to what you felt just couple of months ago? And then I have a couple of questions.
In the first instance I'm impressed.
My wife doesn't listen to me as closely as you do.
We see what you're seeing in the newspapers.
It's present.
There are difficulties around the world when you look at 90-day chunks of time.
It's difficult to -- I don't see anything breaking out or -- to significantly change that short-term view.
It's important for us because not only are we managing the upside because we have a pretty good track record of taking advantage of opportunities as they present themselves but setting the tone for our 70 000-odd people in making certain that they have reasonable expectations and as Randy suggested a few minutes ago continue to be vigilant about the cost that they have.
When you look further out past this year I am more hopeful that we're going to have steady progress and it's going to lead to increased growth over time.
And in case it's different or in case I sound different my tone is basically it's intended to be the same.
There are a lot of really good things going on around Omnicom.
There's some great innovative ideas that different of our agencies are executing against utilizing new technologies and new mediums that I find extremely interesting and exciting and I think that it's fun to be around seeing that level of innovation I'll say.
There's some definitely difficult economic environment and it's our third or fourth year of that which is very difficult.
It's much more fun to manage service businesses with a 7% or 8% or even a 4% or 5% GDP growth environment pretty consistent in every market around the world.
We don't have that.
We knew that coming in.
We haven't had it for the last 2 years.
Those agencies have to manage.
The good news is I think with the innovation that our agencies have they're finding ways of growing their businesses and expanding which does make it enjoyable to be around.
Research Division</strong> And then the quick follow-up would just be around gross buybacks.
You've provided the net number.
Can you give us the gross number on the call? Yes we're going to have to look for that one though for a minute.
Why don't I -- why don't we go on to the next question and I'll -- well hold on maybe we've got it.
It's faster than I expected.
Gross buybacks were 4 992 000-some-odd shares.
Research Division</strong> Sorry 4 992 000 okay average price or dollar amount? 4 992 000 shares.
It will take me a second to give you the dollar amount.
Okay.
Oh what's the average share price? Let me just do it off that.
$273.5 million.
We have a question from the line of Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
I have one company specific question and one industry question please.
First of all sorry to dig up something that has come up many times in the past but just noticing a couple of puts on converts coming up in June and July.
Any commentary on your approach to those? And industry-wise I just wonder if you can talk a minute about media measurement.
There's been a lot of discussion lately about possible changes to the TV rating system that Nielsen runs.
There is a lot of things going on with online ratings perhaps contrasting with all of the data that Google or Facebook whoever else maybe able to provide.
And I just wonder if you could talk generally about your view on media measurement and how it affects your businesses please.
I'll give -- let me first answer the converts.
So the converts have been good securities for us that we like.
We'll go through like we do each time a put or a call period comes up and evaluate them and make what we think is the right economic decision.
I haven't done that yet for this one for this put date that's coming up but again the converts have been good securities for us for a long period of time.
I'll let John comment on the media measurement.
I'll give you the backdrop though that I always give everybody.
Media's very important piece of our business.
It's about 12% of our revenue in aggregate globally.
I think our firms are extremely bright and on top of all the changes and will certainly adjust whatever is necessary in their business and utilize all of the measurements and technology capabilities and changes that occur.
So I can't really believe a change one way or the other is going to affect their overall business as it affects us in any significant way.
And what I'd add to that is that the environment is fluid.
The conversation is -- and there's quite a bit of conversation about changes in measurement and also more -- some of the methodologies which are being brought into the marketplace to measure social and other types of contact with consumers.
I feel a little funny because at 6:00 last night I was about to sit down and be brief for a different reason on this brought completely up to date on this topic and I had to cut the meeting short.
So I'd have to defer really to my media experts and they're not present this morning.
We'll find out and come back to you.
We have a question from the line of Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First of all if you look back over the last couple of years pretty much industry-wide the BRIC markets and some of the other large emerging markets have put up organic growth in the double-digit range.
I think investors generally believe that we've obviously got strong nominal GDP growth but the other kicker in there has been that marketing as a percent of GDP has been increasing.
Wonder if you could offer a view on whether you think that trend is likely to continue particularly in the bigger markets the BRIC markets? Or whether we might see a maturing if you will and perhaps a slacking of growth there to a level that more closely resembles nominal GDP? And then secondly a housekeeping question I wonder if you could tell us the level of severance expense in this quarter versus first quarter of last year? Sure.
Again I might -- sorry to -- somebody's not in the room.
I'm not -- the growth has been great in the BRIC markets and it continues to be strong.
I have never placed the same reliance on statistics coming from those markets as I have in the more developed markets.
So I'm not sure we're comparing apples to apples.
I think you can see and watch GDP-reported numbers and other types of information whereas the car sales were down 10% across Europe and they're building new car plants in China.
So there's a lot of tangible real evidence but I haven't found statistics that I would run the business off of.
Yes I think there's -- if you agree with some of the general theories marketing is really tied to discretionary GDP and I think in high-growth markets discretionary GDP -- some of those BRIC markets discretionary GDP as a percentage of GDP is increasing.
I think marketing will be more closely tied to that.
Our business in many of those markets is more highly tied today to I'll say nonlocal clients so large multinational clients trying to establish their presence.
They are probably investment spending there to build their market positions which will benefit us as well.
And the third comment because everyone always uses BRICs my personal view Brazil is a very sophisticated marketing market already.
As is China.
And I'm not quite sure I would put it in sort of the same category as some of the other emerging markets just because it's as sophisticated as it already is.
To flip and answer your severance question it's -- severance this quarter was about $17 million down about $1 million or so year-over-year.
We have a question from the line of Robert Fishman with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow-up on the rest of the world on the revenue question.
Are there any particular territories that are dragging down the growth from that historical double-digit range to this mid-single digits? Or should we think about this as kind of the new run rate going forward? I'm not sure that I understand the question.
Research Division</strong> So historically the rest of the world has been growing in the double-digit range.
Now we've had 2 consecutive quarters of mid-single-digit growth so I'm just kind of curious if there's any particular territory that's part of -- that makes up the rest of the world.
We talked about the BRICs Brazil is there any particular territory that's dragging down that growth? Or is it just kind of the new run rate going forward? I have to say off the top of my head I don't know how -- I don't know how to answer to your question.
Why don't I think about it a little bit? I'm going to have to probably -- I'll call you back after I've had a chance to go through the numbers and see if I -- I think there's something that would allow me to answer the question better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can I just maybe ask one more on the cost side? So with the cost savings going on in office and general line is that the right way to think about the rest of the year there to help offset the increases in the salary expenses? Some of that is timing.
We certainly have a large number of programs going on to try to drive even further our efficiency in real estate occupancy and basically controllable costs.
So hopefully we'll continue to make progress on that line.
We also want to make progress on the salary and service line obviously.
We have a question from the line of David Bank with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
The first one is managing around Europe which I think you guys are doing pretty well sounds like a real -- the biggest overhang you have for potential margin expansion in '13 and frankly maybe for '14.
So what kind of normalized growth out of Europe do you think you need to see before the operating leverage toggle switches back to where you can get some more operating leverage? And then the second question is I guess in the hanging-on-your-every-word category Randy I can't remember an earnings call where new business wasn't about $1 billion and it actually kind of sounds like this quarter but actually I think one of the things you said was that you didn't think it was stellar.
And given that it's not that different from the typical quarter I think I was just kind of looking for a little more color around that comment.
We certainly have some quarters where it's $1.3 billion $1.4 billion $1.5 billion.
Generally the way that the new business works and keep in mind we have a large number of agencies and a large number of markets and we're also a U.S.-centric and we hear about these big wins and losses which you can get in a market like the United States you can get when you have a global account and you get when it tends to be either the media headlines or obviously big numbers because it's big billings and the creative accounts the annual retainer-fee-type wins.
Well that's great but PR wins some of the event wins in -- especially in smaller markets a lot of those aren't even 7 figures but there's a large number and we have a large number of agencies and I used to describe it sort of as 3 yards and a cloud of dust.
We have a lot of people doing great jobs getting what appear to be relatively small assignments but they are very important meaningful assignments especially in their markets and for their agencies.
And so that 40- or 50-page list of net new business wins tends to be in the $600 million to $800 million range almost every quarter.
That's because we get a large number of people out working pretty hard.
And you end up getting a handful of bigger wins or -- and/or losses in the quarter that move the needle that can move the needle more significantly.
If you get a $300 million or $400 million win in a quarter it obviously goes a long way.
It takes a large number of those 6-figure wins to make up for that one $300 million or $400 million win or loss.
So that's what tends to move the needle around.
We would kind of expect given our size of business for the number to be around $1 billion and a better economic environment probably more around $1.2 billion or so in a more positive economic time frame.
And when that big win or loss comes around the number gets up quite -- can get up quite a bit higher but again it's [indiscernible].
LLC Research Division</strong> So what was missing then was like some of the high-profile big wins or losses? There wasn't a real big -- there weren't any real big wins and losses that I can think of in the quarter.
You have a question from the line of Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> John you said in your opening remarks you talked about sort of an open-platform approach to technology and I think you said that you'd book to not acquire as many assets but more partner with media tech data firms.
And I remember a few years ago you guys announced a pretty big Google partnership that was maybe a step in this direction or maybe a different direction but could you maybe add a little more color to that comment and how that might differentiate Omnicom with some of the other big holding company is it tend to be I think more acquisitive on the technology side data side? And correct me if you think that's wrong and whether that's -- this strategy you think pays off in terms of growth or returns or profitability for Omnicom that investors might see over time? Sure.
I can't -- starting with part of your question I can't give you the strategies of my competitors because I can only observe them as you do.
But philosophically when a new platform is introduced we're most interested initially in the learnings that come from it and whether or not it's applicable or is going to make our insights about consumers better or drive more sales on behalf of our clients.
A very long long long time ago when the Internet was first introduced we had a view that gee if we bought 20% or 30% of any and every company it would be a wonderful thing because we'd have a seat at the table and learn more than the rest of the marketplace.
Over time we decided that some of those investments are really good.
Some of them weren't.
We didn't necessarily learn anymore than anyone else because those companies had the mission of trying to grow themselves and they'd sell and disperse their information to whomever would be willing to buy it.
So we decided to get out of the investment business and stay focused on trying to invest in companies that we believe have a long-term purpose in this ever-changing and more rapidly changing process.
Because we're as big as we are everyone comes knocking on our door so we have access to look at and often times access to do 1 or 2 things either partner with to make sure that what we believe the individual company will do will in fact turn out to be successful or we have the ability to make an investment in it.
We've elected to deal with quite a number of different platforms not make a judgment as to whether or not it was a good financial investment because our primary interest is to service our clients.
Where we do develop long-term relationships and we do see a particular service being part of the immediate future we would in fact sit down and make an investment but we just don't run it -- we stay focused on what we're good at.
We don't try to get into the venture capital business I guess.
Probably you can add whatever you like Randy.
No I think that summed it up.
We want to partner with the best technologies that are out there to bring those technologies with our insights and I'll say marketing insights consumer insights and service capabilities to our clients.
Today there's a large number of technologies being developed for relatively narrow purposes.
We obviously have a large number of clients with lots of different objectives.
We want to bring the right technology to bear for the right client at the right time.
We don't necessarily need to own the tech to do that.
We need to know how to utilize the tech for our clients' advantage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could maybe squeeze one more in Randy.
The year is off to a decent start.
I know you didn't change your sort of full year outlook but would you be willing to give us a sense for how much sort of additional revenue growth would then lead to a change in your margin expectations? I think they're flat year-over-year for the year I mean would 100 150 basis points of improvement sort of move the needle for you guys? Or do you think that you've sort of -- you've capped the margin outlook in the right balance? I think for right now we're pretty happy with our margin performance and the I'll say a current year objective of flat margins in the current economic environment.
So I mean your question was how much improvement.
If it was the right improvement and the right locations I could see margins expanding.
But as I mentioned before it's very difficult to manage margins in a negative organic growth environment like it's around Europe and frankly the volatility of organic growth is what's difficult.
If we had uniform 3% organic growth across every agency around Omnicom frankly that would be an easier environment than now where we have agencies with high organic growth rates and frankly at times that becomes difficult to manage their margins too because it's been a probably high-cost or rising-cost economic environment as well as the places where it's negative or more difficult economic growth.
I think the only thing that I would add especially this morning having learned that everybody listens to every one of our words is what Randy said is absolutely spot on.
But in the answer don't interpret it to be that we're satisfied with our margins we're not.
We're constantly going agency by agency region by region to find out re-examine the way we're doing business to find out whether or not there's a more efficient way to do business.
So the quest has not stopped even though your question had more to do with guidance I think.
Yes and frankly to go on John's point our agencies have to do a very significant amount of work each year to continuously find efficiencies in order to hold their margins let alone improve their margins.
We have a question from the line of Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
My question's more of industry orientation as well and a bit more of a mid- to longer-term view.
On 2 verticals on auto where we're past the domestic bankruptcies now that first wave of new model launches and sort of settling in but still working back to sort of prerecession levels of spending.
I'd be interested to see how you expect that industry to work through over the next couple of years.
And then secondly the health care vertical where I know we've been talking a lot in past quarters about some big drugs coming off patent and maybe where you see the pipeline coming in and potentially that vertical coming back a bit more aggressively in the next few years.
The U.S.
auto companies our auto numbers are global auto numbers to begin with.
So we see the U.S.
increasingly moving back to what was normal prior to the bankruptcies as you say and the setbacks and the products improving that are being produced by the domestic auto players.
And we're pretty fortunate in the auto category.
We got a -- we have a broad range of services.
We have sort of multi-disciplined global clients.
We have 3 extremely strong clients that are right now growing share on a global basis.
So that certainly benefits us and we have a broad range of services other services that we provide in the auto category to various companies around the world.
So we're not -- it's not just a U.S.
question or a European question.
Over the last 4 or 5 years we've found our auto revenues to be pretty logically aligned with global unit sales.
So it's a category that has been pretty rational.
Health care lately our agencies have actually picked up and we had a pretty good quarter this quarter overall in health care.
It's hard for me to segment right now quite this fast in the quarter whether or not that's new business performance or industry performance.
I have a feeling that it's our new business and agency performance as opposed to overall category performance.
And just one final point to do with Omnicom.
In terms of servicing major automakers our limitation is more on the side of the number of agencies that we have that already have a car account.
And we were at 100% capacity until recently when Goodby ended its relationship with General Motors.
On one side that's a bad thing.
On the other side I have great confidence that it won't be too long before Goodby gets another major car account.
So this quarter it's troubled.
Three quarters from now it will be an opportunity for us the way I view it because that's been the experience that I've had in dealing with the agencies that we represent so...
Okay I think we're probably at or past 9:30.
So first thank you all very much for taking the time to listen to our call and we'll be -- Shub [ph] or I or whoever will be happy to answer any questions if you still have some.
Thank you again.
Bye-bye.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to introduce today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our second quarter 2013 earnings call.
We hope everyone had a chance to review our earnings release.
We have posted to our website both the press release and the presentation covering the information that we'll be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I have been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included at the end of our investor presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and that actual events or results may differ materially.
I'd also like to remind you that during the course of the call we'll discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
We're going to begin the call with some brief remarks from John Wren.
Following John's remarks we'll review our financial performance for the quarter and then both John and I will be happy to take questions.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on the call.
We're now half way through 2013 and I'm pleased to say that our performance continues to demonstrate the strength diversity and stability of our business.
On a global basis our top and bottom line was consistent with our internal forecast.
And as you can see in our deck organic growth was 2.8% and margins increased during the quarter.
Regionally our performance broadly reflected the different macroeconomic conditions in global markets.
Our business in the United States continues to grow at a steady pace that is slightly faster than the overall economy.
In Asia and Latin America we're experiencing stronger growth.
And as you might expect the Eurozone remains a key geographic challenge.
Before discussing the highlights of our second quarter performance let me start by providing an update on the progress we're making on our key strategic initiatives.
More than at any time in our history our company and agencies are aligned around the common set of strategies that are essential to our growth.
These strategies share a goal of helping us meet the rapidly changing needs of our clients by giving them access to the best people and the latest technologies where and when they need it: first is attracting retaining and developing top talent; next is expanding our global footprint and moving into new service areas; third is building upon our digital and analytical capabilities by investing in our agencies and partnering with innovative technology companies in key markets around the world; and finally by delivering innovative solutions using meaningful consumer insights across systems and platforms for the benefit of our clients.
Our progress is really a reflection of the caliber and contributions of our people.
I'm happy to report our agencies continue the tradition of creativity and innovation with a record year at Cannes.
Omnicom won more than 240 Lions across all marketing disciplines categories and geographies.
Let me just mention a few of the highlights.
BBDO and DDB were 2 of the top 3 networks for the seventh consecutive year.
Omnicom Media Group earned the most wins of any media agency holding company in the media category for the second year in a row and OMD Australia was Media Agency of the Year.
Ketchum was the only public relations firm to win Lions across multiple categories.
And finally demonstrating our breadth and depth Omnicom agencies from more than 35 countries representing 145 brands won Lions.
It's also worth noting that many of our winning Cannes entries were the result of multiple Omnicom agencies working together on behalf of our biggest accounts.
This reflects an important trend in our industry as many clients are telling us that they want greater collaboration cooperation and efficiencies around the world.
On the digital front we're also benefiting from stronger capabilities that blur the lines between disciplines and geographies.
We continue to see a proliferation of new platforms and an increasing desire from our clients to create effective campaigns that work across all media channels technologies and devices.
As I've said before the way to succeed in this environment is to develop digital skill sets at every agency and partner with the right technology leaders.
This allows us without bias or silos to develop and integrate the most effective digital strategies.
For example at Annalect our primary data and analytical business we have incredible talent that is developing innovative partnerships and leveraging cutting-edge technologies and tools to collect data in real time and convert it into actionable insights.
Accuen which already operates in the United States Europe and Asia is extending its programmatic ad-buying system into Latin America to service the growing needs of our clients in that region.
Last month Annalect also announced a global deal with salesforce.com that will allow us to use the Salesforce marketing cloud to build a suite of social tools.
This partnership will support social media offerings across all Omnicom agencies that allow them to deliver more dynamic real-time content.
This is just one of many examples of our open-source approach to partnering with media data and research companies.
This strategy allows us to employ the latest technologies and at the same time reduce our investment in technologies that may become outdated.
Now let me turn to our second quarter results.
As I mentioned organic growth globally was up 2.8%.
Revenue growth in the quarter was well balanced between the U.S.
at 2.7% and the international markets at 2.8%.
With the exception of the euro markets all of our regions experienced solid growth.
Randy will provide more details when he makes his remarks.
As a result of our top line performance and focus on expense management we continue to drive strong cash flow.
Our balance sheet remains extremely sound giving us the flexibility to utilize our free cash flow in a disciplined manner for dividends prudent acquisitions and share repurchases.
Overall Omnicom's performance this quarter reflects our commitment to delivering the highest quality work for our clients expanding our capabilities to continue to effectively market across the globe in a digital world and building strong agency cultures.
I will now turn the call back to Randy who will take you through the numbers in more detail.
Thank you John.
As John said our agencies had an excellent performance in Q2 benefiting from their continuous focus on delivering new innovative and insightful ideas and services to their clients while relentlessly driving their own cost efficiencies.
As a result revenue came in right on track at $3.6 billion and our EBITA margin for the quarter increased almost 20 basis points to 15.1% bringing EBITA for the quarter up to $548 million.
Operating income or EBIT for the quarter increased 3.3% to $523 million and the resulting operating margin was 14.4% also a year-over-year improvement of about 20 basis points.
Looking at the items below operating income net interest expense for the quarter was $40.7 million up $5.8 million from Q2 of last year and just about flat with the first quarter.
The year-over-year increase is primarily due to the interest cost on the $1.25 billion of 10-year notes we issued last year.
If you remember the first tranche of $750 million was issued early in Q2 and the second tranche of $500 million was issued mid-Q3.
Together they have a blended interest rate of about 3.4%.
On the tax front our reported rate for the quarter was 33.9%.
While the rate was down slightly from last year there were a few ups and downs in the quarter from discrete items that pushed the rate up just a bit.
For the full year we still expect our operating tax rate to be around 33.6% which is about where we are for the first 6 months.
Net income for the quarter was $289.5 million which was a solid increase of 2.4%.
And on Slide 3 we show the computation of diluted EPS.
The increase in net income combined with the year-over-year reduction in our diluted share count of 4.6% resulted in EPS for the quarter of $1.09 which was an increase of 6.9%.
On Slide 4 we take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX on a year-over-year basis the U.S.
dollar strengthened against most of our major currencies except for the euro and the Chinese yuan.
The net result reduced revenue in the quarter by $18.7 million or about 0.6%.
Looking ahead if rates stay where they are currently we expect FX to be negative by about 1% in Q3 and about 1.5% in Q4.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions decreased revenue by $4.3 million.
And in the quarter we completed the sale of our recruitment marketing business so for the next few quarters absent new acquisitions we could have negative acquisition revenue of between 70 and 100 basis points.
With regard to organic growth we had another very solid quarter up 2.8% or $99 million.
As we've talked about before this quarter we were up against strong comparables including specific Olympic-related revenue of about $50 million.
A couple other areas worth mentioning this quarter.
We continue to have excellent performance from our media operations driven by both solid new business activities and new services.
Our specialty pharma and health care businesses are benefiting from a combination of recent wins and increased activity from clients.
And our agencies in many of the emerging markets China Russia India the U.A.E.
Turkey Colombia and Chile to name a few continue to have strong double-digit growth.
Turning to our mix of revenue by discipline on Slide 5.
Brand advertising accounted for 48% of our revenue; and marketing services 52%.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising's organic growth was 4.3% driven by strong growth in our media businesses as well as good new business performance in the second half of last year.
However this was offset to some extent by recent moves of Gillette and Chevy.
And our marketing services was up 1.4% in aggregate.
Within marketing services CRM was down 0.5% primarily driven by declines in our sports and events businesses when compared to the second quarter of last year when they had the benefit of significant Olympics-related revenues.
Our public relations businesses continue to have very good results posting organic growth of 3.8%.
And specialty communications had an outstanding quarter up 7.8% predominantly driven by strong results across the board from our specialty health care businesses.
On Slide 6 and 7 our geographic mix of business in the quarter was split 52% domestic and 48% international.
In the United States revenue increased $44.4 million or 2.4%.
Organic growth continue to be very solid up 2.7% and acquisitions net of dispositions was down $6.7 million or 0.3%.
International revenue increased $32 million or about 1.9%.
FX created a headwind causing revenue to decline $19 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue $2.4 million and organic growth which continues to be very mixed by region increased this quarter to 2.8% or $48 million.
In Europe of the larger countries Russia and the U.K.
continue to perform very well while Germany and France were down.
In the U.K.
increased spending by our consumer products and telecom clients led our traditional agencies especially our media agencies to a solid quarter.
The Eurozone markets in aggregate were down 3% organically.
And in Asia we had strong performances across most of the region with double-digit growth in China India Hong Kong Singapore Thailand Malaysia and Indonesia.
And in Latin America we continue to have standout results in Brazil Chile and Colombia.
Slide 8 shows our mix of business by industry.
As the chart shows we had strong performances in the quarter in the travel and entertainment sector which was primarily driven by a couple of recent new business wins as well as the consumer products telecom and pharma sectors which resulted from a balance of new business wins and increased spending.
Obviously we were down in the auto sector primarily due to the Chevy move.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our cash performance for the first 6 months of the year was on track and consistent with last year.
We generated just over $700 million of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
On Slide 10 the breakdown of our primary uses of cash over the same 6 months included dividends to our common shareholders of about $107 million.
The year-over-year decrease reflects the fact that we accelerated our normal January dividend payment to December of last year.
Dividends paid to minority interest shareholders of $60 million and capital expenditures of $69 million.
CapEx this year is down year-over-year primarily due to a couple of sizable office moves and a long-term lease renewal that occurred last year that had significant build-outs involved.
Acquisitions including earn-out payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $45 million.
And share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $492 million.
All in we overspent our free cash flow by about $71 million for the 6 months.
Slide 11 shows our current capital structure.
As we believe everyone's aware we redeemed $407 million of our convertible notes during the second quarter for a combination of cash and stock.
That reduced the amount of convertible notes outstanding down to $253 million.
And that coupled with the second tranche of senior notes issued in Q3 of 2012 brings our total debt balance up to just over $4 billion.
Also year-over-year our net debt position increased by $377 million to $2.63 billion primarily as a result of share buybacks over the past 12 months.
As a result of the increased debt our total debt-to-EBITDA ratio stands at 1.9x and our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is only 1.2x.
Our interest coverage ratio at 10.8x remains very strong.
On Slide 12 we show our ROIC and our ROE metrics both of which continue to be very strong.
Our return on invested capital for the trailing 12-month period increased to 17.5% and our return on equity for the same period increased to almost 32%.
And finally on Slide 13 which tracks the total cash payout to shareholders shows that since 2002 we've returned just over 100% of our net income to shareholders through the combination of dividends and share repurchases.
And that concludes our prepared remarks.
There are several other supplemental slides included in the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point I'm going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to the line of James Dix with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just 3 things.
I guess when you look at the growth within the advertising discipline are there any longer-term trends you think worth pointing out in terms of organic growth and I guess also margin trends between your media agencies as opposed to the other agencies within that category? Just curious on that.
And then secondly just your thoughts on what the amount of pending large pitches is in the market at the moment and in particular what's your outlook for picking up some auto business to take advantage of your resources there.
And then finally there's a couple -- there's been some trade press on some renewed push by procurement which I assume is ever present or changes in some types of payment terms in particular how quickly they will be paying for certain types of services.
Just wondering how we should be thinking about developments there.
Is there anything really new there? And is there anything we should be thinking about in terms of modeling cash flow going forward? That was long enough I forgot the first question.
Research Division</strong> I've got them written down Randy so...
I'm kidding.
I'll let John go.
Let's start from the bottom up.
In terms of procurement there's always been pressure there continues to be pressure to drive efficiencies.
With respect to balance sheet cash flow we've turned down and not accepted clients that we could have won because we weren't prepared to accept the terms that they were offering.
We're not a bank.
I think if you speak to my competitors they'll both -- or all 3 agree with that concept.
That's not what we're here for.
And anybody who wants to treat us like a bank can go to a bank.
The second thing part pending large pitches there's a couple around.
We don't try to aggregate them.
We just believe in ourselves and we believe that if we get up to the plate we'll score well.
There's no -- not to my knowledge -- big car pitches up at the moment but I have great confidence in the capabilities of the people who were on the Chevy business that when one does come up we'll have a very good chance at it.
And then your first question...
And on the car front we have a excellent roster of auto clients already 3 major global accounts so it's not like we're short of auto.
But we always accept the next one if we can handle it.
And then in terms of your first question which was the distinction in margins between the media agencies and the advertising disciplines I think? Research Division</strong> Yes.
They're roughly the same.
I'll let Randy...
The media agencies have strong margins.
There's a lot -- there's more investment in the systems and technology especially with some of the new areas of programmatic trading and I'll say digital marketing behavioral marketing.
So I think we get a pretty comparable return on capital in both areas.
Yes that's probably all there is to really say about it.
On an absolute reported margin basis the media business are a little bit higher.
You also asked about growth in advertising the strong growth in advertising.
The way we operate the business I think a lot of that is being driven by digital or what other people might break out as digital.
We operate our businesses on a much more integrated basis and we're certainly seeing strong growth with providing services to utilize new technologies.
Our next question would come from the line of John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Randy there's been some concern in the market that the tone of business in the emerging markets slowed a bit in both Asia and Latin America.
I know you spoke to it briefly but did you see any sign of that trend in China India or Brazil as you exited the quarter or at the start of the third quarter? China and India were very strong for us.
Brazil is not growing as fast as China and India right now.
Brazil is a much more developed market in many ways.
But there are -- the balance of this year who knows next year you start with a lot of major global events that will run through 2016 so we're very bullish about Brazil in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately you had accelerating growth in the U.K.
in a period where you mentioned the Olympics comp.
And the European I guess money looks like it stabilized.
Are you guys feeling a little bit more comfortable about the region going forward? Well the U.K.
was benefited a little bit by switching a packaged goods company which we were handling out of our French office last year at this time.
And we switched to our London office.
That plus the Olympics.
So France wasn't as down as much as the reported numbers would have you believe.
And the U.K.
which was very strong was still very strong but not as strong as the reported numbers.
Southern -- Spain and Southern Europe seems to be bottoming out.
I think you still have concerns and we still have some concerns in the very short term about France and Germany until after the election but nothing dramatic.
It's just -- it's a bit of a headwind.
It does feel like it's stabilizing.
It's not -- it's just not necessarily rebounding yet but one step at a time.
And we'll go to the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
A few questions one at a time if I could.
Typically you'll give us what your net billings number was in the quarter.
I think your goal was generally about $1 billion per quarter.
What was it this last quarter please? We were right about $800 million with the -- with Chevy and a couple other things like Gillette.
As I've always said if -- a couple big moves big changes up or down can affect the quarter so I think our base was very strong came in pretty much as we would expect but with the Gillette loss it just pushed us down below $1 billion.
Okay.
Then switching over to the U.K.
just a little bit further on this if we could Randy or John.
The 7.4% organic number there how much was that impacted on a year-over-year basis organically from the Olympics revenue about a year ago? And also can you just talk a little bit further about this switch of the business booked in France over to London.
That just basically started at the beginning of the second quarter.
It's the first time I've heard you talk about it.
I think the Olympics was around $15 million to $20 million in the U.K.
I don't have the number at my fingertips but I think it's in that category.
And I've seen the number for the second quarter of that move but I don't have it sitting in front of me.
But it was just we changed personnel and where the lead on that global piece of business was from at the clients' request and so it was neutral to the overall Omnicom.
But if you're examining microscopically the countries it had an impact on -- to the benefit of the U.K.
and to the detriment of France.
We've talked about these things a few times.
There's a handful of places in the world that are really global centers that you can really handle global pieces of business out of.
I think last year or maybe it was the year before we had it where a piece of business moved from the Netherlands to the United States.
And when you deal in some of those international markets on these global pieces of business when you have a move either in or out it can look pretty impactful in that market.
If it happens to go into a place like the United States it tends to get blended away a little bit because it's just the size of the market.
But as John points out it's net neutral for overall Omnicom revenues.
It just makes these country numbers look different than what the actual market economy is.
Many times I think when we talk about revenue growth in a country people take that as to the strength of the country or the strength of the market in that country and that's certainly one aspect of it.
But wins and losses are at times an overwhelming aspect of it especially as we get to the smaller markets.
But just -- I'm sorry just for the timing of this switch between the countries that basically started at the beginning of this second quarter? I don't know if it was late in the first quarter and just probably we didn't have an impact.
Yes I think...
When I spoke of it in the last call.
I think the move started in the first quarter but again it takes a little while to move a sizable piece of business.
And then my final question please.
When you think about your Southeast Asian markets China and maybe Australia is the rate of growth in those markets for Omnicom -- is the rate of growth slowing there given the economic slowness we hearing over there? I don't think China is.
Australia probably is.
Last year we benefited -- we finally consolidated Clemenger.
And with that quite a bit of activity was going on around it where we were able to expand the business probably a little bit faster than normal so that's steady.
But China still remains a very strong double-digit growth market.
And you're not seeing it slow at all in a material level? Not for our business no.
Our next question will come from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Townsend Buckles for Alexia.
Can you say how much of an impact the recent account losses had on the quarter specifically Chevy and Gillette as you called out and what we should expect in coming quarters? No that's not something that we really break out client by client.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess as we look at the U.S.
growth it slowed a bit from Q1.
I mean would you say that most of that would reflect those losses if you can say? The problem with the question is if I -- I can take any bad thing or I can take any good thing and probably account a quarter to any one of them but there's 100 of them every quarter.
So it's -- to try to isolate and say that the quarter is down because of a Gillette -- the Gillette move or I can also say it was up because of this move.
This stuff balances out.
So we don't really look at it quite that way we prefer to never have any account losses.
We prefer to only have account wins but unfortunately both happens.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And your sale of Hodes I think that's been a bit of a drag on the business in the past.
Should we expect this to have a positive impact on organic growth and profitability going forward? Will that be meaningful at all? It will definitely be positive on organic growth and margins going forward.
It's got -- 3 years ago it had a bigger impact.
But right now the impact because of the business while it was not positive was starting -- was stabilizing at a very low number.
So it was -- the benefits of losing this headwind on organic growth again will be positive but not significantly positive.
And kind of the same thing with margins it will be positive but not noticeably.
Right.
I mean if you recall we didn't call it out specifically but implied in what we said in 2010 of the agencies that we felt were no longer strategic to the business and we wanted to in an orderly fashion dispose of them.
Hodes was probably the largest of the remaining items on that list and it just took us until now to dispose of it in an orderly fashion.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just lastly if you can talk just generally about how you're seeing the second half of the year in terms of client sentiment and spending plans? Right now we're in the process of re-forecasting for the second half and we're not quite done with that process but we haven't seen any major swift swings in attitude from what we previously had forecasted.
Yes.
And we're certainly comfortable with what we've been talking about if you go on along.
I mean this quarter the margins were up.
Our agencies have done an extremely good job of pressing their own efficiencies.
So I think we're certainly more comfortable with the full year than we were -- well I mean I guess we've always been comfortable with it but it's certainly encouraging to see how this quarter came out.
Our next question comes from the line of William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Yes as a follow-up just as you look at kind of the second half and you think about kind of how some of your leading clients are behaving would you expect kind of the growth profile to be consistent with the first half or somewhat different? We have -- we've got a little bit less headwind in the -- certainly at least in the third quarter.
We've had as we've talked about a couple times some specific Olympic revenue in the first half as a headwind.
We're not going to have that in the second half.
And I think all the client conversations that I've heard remain pretty consistent with what we thought at the beginning of the year.
So at this point I think we think we feel pretty positive about the year.
Research Division</strong> And as you alluded to earlier there's some natural chop in the business from quarter-to-quarter.
Is there anything to read into the moderation in U.S.
growth in Q2? I don't think so.
Research Division</strong> And finally can you talk a bit about just your strategy around programmatic buying and Accuen? I'm going to let John do that.
I want to go back to your other point about the U.S.
I mentioned the Olympics spending.
The Olympics happened to be in London.
All the work that we did wasn't in London so a piece of it was there but frankly more -- much more of it was in the United States.
Digital buying of media is done by machines as if you're standing on the floor of the NASDAQ as opposed to in a traditional media shop.
Increasingly the capabilities of what we can do we -- I hold the long-term belief that eventually traditional media or a lot of traditional media will get purchased that way.
So where we have a client need we've been expanding the service and opening up the capability country -- major country by major country.
And it improves every day because with more volume more activity it just expands and it can probably continue to expand for the foreseeable future in terms of what it can do.
And the labor in that space is really in developing the technology and developing the insights.
So as of right now while the buying uses a lot more technology the development of that technology the programming and insights that we give from one client to the next is still obviously very labor intensive.
And as you can imagine the publishers are changing their algorithms constantly so we're changing our algorithms constantly.
Research Division</strong> And just a final question.
Based on the numbers you gave Randy just on the acquisition headwind from the Hodes sale is it roughly a $100 million business and annualized? And I'm just curious what the organic growth was on that business.
That's -- you got the number about right about $100 million and it was costing us $2 million to $5 million a quarter in negative organic growth.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony DiClemente from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Randy and one for John.
Randy just looking at this -- the auto number being down 11% and I know a lot of that is owing to the Chevy move and maybe you can't quantify the exact impact of that.
But I just wanted to hear if there's anything organic going on in automotive.
We heard that in the TV upfront that some of the tone of business was maybe slightly slower so I just wanted to hear if there's anything that we can isolate at auto.
And then the second question for John I appreciate your comment about growing your digital capabilities at your agencies.
I'm always trying to figure out there are these independent ad technology firms that pop up and that have material or legitimate businesses and business models.
And did you think that the digital capabilities at your agencies are taking share from the independents or not? And so I just also want to ask that question in the context of your need to build digital via acquisition as digital matures.
I guess the hope would be that more of your growth is organic as digital matures and the need for those bolt-on acquisitions actually sort of diminishes.
Sure.
I may take a stab at both of them and John can correct me on the second one.
So in auto our major auto clients are doing quite well.
I think the bulk of the change this quarter really was the Chevy move.
But we have a lot of different auto businesses.
Our 3 major accounts are doing quite well.
And the rest of it is probably -- if there's anything else it's probably project business.
On the media technology front there's a very interesting ecosystem that's being developed where there are a number of companies that are being established to hopefully sort of knock down roadblocks in the development of the space.
As the space evolves issues pop up and people try to attack those issues.
Many of those technologies the better ones we're partnering with we're maybe even buying some of their services.
I think that will continue to go on for quite some time because frankly as the space evolves more and more little roadblocks pop up as people move forward.
Our people are obviously also developing solutions around those issues and we're happy to find the best answer for our clients.
And it's inevitably going to be a combination of utilizing solutions developed by third parties developing some of our own solutions and there will inevitably be some places at least as of right now that haven't appeared yet that we're going to find solutions necessary to keep moving forward.
And the only thing I would add to that is with all the digital channels that are now available to reach the desired audiences clients understand the complexity and they're actually looking for partners that can holistically handle both their digital requirements and their traditional requirements.
And whilst small very successful startups when you compare them to the size of a company like Omnicom may win $20 million which may turn to be 10% growth for them that's not much of a challenge to us.
And we think the long-term trend is clients looking for people they can depend on to provide insights and to reach those audiences holistically.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
Two questions please.
First nice to see a bit of margin expansion in the quarter after you hadn't really promised any necessarily this year.
I just wonder if there's any updated thoughts on what we could expect for margins particularly having seen you attain your margin target last year.
And then secondly it might be a little bit philosophical but seeing that the moderation in economies in emerging markets I'm wondering if you can gauge whether emerging market ad spending might follow the typical cyclical patterns that we see in the U.S.
and Europe or if by contrast and I get the sense this is what's happening at least in China just the structural growth in consumer spending means there just remains strong demand for your services.
I'll say...
Yes.
I should've written down the question sorry.
Well in -- on margins we had a really good quarter.
Our agencies are making great progress and are very focused on finding internal efficiencies.
I don't think at this point we're making promises on margins any different than we said before but we're very happy with the work that's been done in the quarter and are going to continue to put all the focus we can on finding every efficiency possible.
The only thing I might add to that is as we look to the third and the fourth quarter we're not internally forecasting margin improvement but we're not -- when you compare just those quarters but we're not forecasting that they'll be down.
So the gains we've had in the first 6 months will flow through.
And your second philosophical question? Should I repeat the second one? Maybe I shouldn't have said philosophical.
It's a scary word.
It's just understanding kind of the cyclical versus the structural growth trends in emerging markets.
So whether we get moderation in economies in China Brazil India whatever the countries may be does that lead to moderation in ad spending as we typically see in the U.S.
and Europe? Or by contrast is there just enough strong structural growth and consumer spending growth in these markets that your business could remain just fine? If you -- I think in our situation it's slightly different.
In the United States we're very large so we are impacted by GDP and track it.
In some of those other markets we don't have as much market share and we still have the opportunity to get -- gain new clients as well as be impacted by their economic situation.
So we haven't tried to drill down and understand every nuance about the difference between 7.5% and 8.5% growth in China because for instance we still have the opportunity to win new business.
So philosophically we haven't spent the energy just trying to gauge that impact because we haven't reached 100% market share yet.
Our client -- depends on the market as well but our client base I think at this point is largely focused on getting themselves more and more entrenched and established in those markets.
So I would think that their spending patterns won't exactly follow the economy which is good for us.
It basically is saying that the structural growth kind of outweighs the cyclical growth.
Yes.
Or cyclical patterns.
And I've never said this before but I'm sure one of my competitors is prepared to tell the Chinese what their growth will be for the next year so you might ask the question of them.
I think we have one -- time for one more question.
And that will be from the line of Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So you're more comfortable with the full year but are still reviewing the plan.
You spoke a little bit about how you're coming in slightly ahead year-to-date on the margins.
What's your level of comfort and increased confidence in terms of the top line momentum? Or is it really just the conversion of that into profitability? I think we had the toughest headwinds in the first half of the year so if I go through and if we're right about those headwinds and that they just disappear and it wasn't shift -- money shifted around I think we feel pretty good with where we're at through the first 6 months.
So that gives us more confidence in the numbers that we were talking about for the full year.
But you know just from following us we're constantly doing bottoms up and then looking at what we're doing.
So whilst confident we're not ones to overpromise at this point.
Research Division</strong> Yes I definitely appreciate that.
We still have a half of year to go.
I'm just trying to understand I mean things seem to be certainly on track through this first 6 months and some of the parts of the business are de-risked and you're executing well.
Just trying to understand what you think the risks are through the back half of the year and what could prevent a situation where we're not sitting here in January and you're telling us that you came in slightly ahead of what your formal plan had been? There's always the fairly big number every year in Q4 -- at the very end of Q4.
It's very difficult for us to predict if it -- if that spending pattern follows I'll say historic patterns then we're going to be in -- we're going to have a very -- we're going to have a good year.
We're going to certainly be able to achieve our targets and all the numbers that we've talked about.
But it always makes us nervous because frankly those numbers don't start to solidify until late in the fourth quarter.
So could that -- could something affect that? Sure it could.
We don't expect it will because frankly the historic patterns are fairly consistent but it's difficult to forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You also had mentioned the strong performance of your specialty health care practice.
Is that -- how much of that is related to agency performance as opposed to -- I'm just trying to get color on whether you think that broadly speaking health care marketing has reached the point where you're seeing overall growth industry-wide at this point.
Well I mean we have had some new business wins.
I think when you get outside the United States especially in emerging markets I think there's a lot of potential growth for health care and health care spending especially as people move up into the middle class or what they call the middle class.
The limitation on our side will be can we find the talent and train people to take that business not whether it's healthier.
It's not healthier.
I believe it's very healthy and it's an opportunity if we can execute against it in the correct marketplace.
We also won some very good pieces of new business last year some pitches that were out there.
And the revenue didn't really come through.
The spending didn't come through to drive it.
I think we're starting to see some of that now.
Looking at some of our peers' numbers they are mentioning that health care is strong for them as well.
I'm not sure if it's as strong as ours or not.
I haven't compared the relative numbers but they're talking about health care positively.
So I would guess hearing that market commentary that the health care category is picking up in spending which makes some sense when I tie together some of the wins we had last year and the numbers sort of not showing up then but they're showing up now and the overall backdrop.
So it has traditionally been a very good space.
It seems like we're back on that track.
Thank you all for taking the time to listen to our call.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to now introduce to you today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our third quarter 2013 earnings call.
We hope everyone's had a chance to review our earnings release.
We have posted to our website both the press release and the presentation covering the information that we'll be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included at the end of our investor presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and that actual events or results may differ materially.
I'd also like to remind you that during the course of the call we'll discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about our performance.
And due to the pending merger with Publicis we'll be giving a few more non-GAAP measures than we have in the past.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
John is going to begin the call with some brief remarks about the quarter as well as the status report and overview of our pending merger with Publicis.
Following John's remarks I'll review our financial performance for the quarter in more detail.
And then both John and I will be happy to take questions.
Good morning and thank you for joining our conference call.
We're now 3 quarters through 2013 and I'm pleased to say our performance for the quarter and for the year-to-date remains strong.
I'm going to start with comments on the quarter and then a brief update on the proposed Publicis Omnicom Group merger.
Please bear in mind that our groups are operating independently as we go through the required approval process.
For the third quarter organic growth was over 4.1% and operating income and margin excluding merger-related expenses improved over the same period of 2012.
On a regional basis our performance reflects some broader macroeconomic conditions in the global market.
We continue to experience strong organic growth in the U.S.
and the U.K.
The Eurozone has not yet returned to growth and our businesses in both Latin America and Asia performed well during the quarter.
While we are cautiously optimistic about economic conditions we remain focused on the things we can control.
Our results are an affirmation of the success of Omnicom's strategic priorities to drive growth: first to invest in and retain the best talent; next to expand our global footprint particularly in developing markets and move into new fast-growing service areas; third to invest in our digital and analytical capabilities and assets around the globe; and fourth to deliver innovation and integrated solutions using meaningful consumer insights across disciplines for the benefit of our clients.
We are confident that our pending merger with Publicis will only enhance the strength in these core strategies.
It'll bring a wider pool of talent a broader portfolio of best-in-class agencies and a deeper set of systems-integration capabilities.
Since we made the announcement I have visited with many of our employees and clients.
There is an air of excitement about the merger and a clear sense of opportunities it creates.
For our employees many of whom are listening to this call this morning this merger means working for the best companies in the industry.
Maurice and I and our leadership teams are committed to excellence.
Creativity innovation and entrepreneurship have always been and will continue to be priorities for our agencies.
And while we share many core values we also want our networks and agencies to have distinct unique identities in the marketplace.
Our merger will give Omnicom and Publicis employees higher ceilings as there is no group that can possibly offer better career prospects.
It will also give employees greater access to talent development programs that lead the industry.
Omnicom University is just one example of a leadership program that we will extend to our colleagues at Publicis and I'm certain Omnicom employees will also reap similar benefits from their talent development programs.
As a result our employees will have access to better training and increased opportunities for self-development.
For our clients as our firms come together Publicis Omnicom will continue to deliver the work and service they are used to from people who are focused on delivering the very best.
There are no plans to merge individual agency brands.
We are in the talent business and people want to work for a company that stands for something.
Having an agency that has its own unique identity and culture is very important.
What will change and dramatically improve however is access to a more diverse portfolio of services our global reach as well as a deeper bench strength of digital and creative talent.
Together we will be able to serve our clients with exceptional expertise collaboration and creativity in an ever-changing environment across a full spectrum of disciplines and geographies at scale.
As all of you know the pace of change is staggering.
This rapid shift has created a new world of extraordinary opportunities.
New technologies are changing our personal and business lives and generating vast amounts of data that we can draw insight from.
We are now able to segment our target audiences even more meaningfully and reach them even more precisely in the right place at the right time and when they're in the right mood.
We can convey messages that are capitally nuanced based on insights derived in part from the effective analysis of data.
To realize the true value of this for our clients Publicis Omnicom will capitalize on our own technology platforms and work effectively with an increasing number of technology partners.
Towards this end there are advantages of scale.
Publicis and Omnicom can leverage platforms and the investments necessary to develop and maintain them across a much bigger operation.
And when partnering with technology companies we will be able to extend our relationship across a larger group of agencies.
A good example of this strategy is Omnicom's investment in Annalect our primary data and analytical business.
Today Annalect has hundreds of data scientists and programmers who are working with many of our agencies across disciplines and platforms collecting data which is used to develop actionable insights in real time.
These efforts are driving a tangible shift in how our agencies are hiring and developing their talent to ensure that they can use the data effectively to create target and distribute content across multiple platforms.
As an example of this trend one of our CRM agencies RAPP recently named its first director of applied data a role that will serve the purpose of deriving insights and actions from our data platforms.
However big ideas and creativity will not be replaced by algorithms anytime soon.
Clients are looking for ideas and execution that transcend and work across all mediums.
This means cutting a 30-second commercial for the Super Bowl or placing an ad on Facebook or a 6-second video on buying[ph] a live event or any number of options.
Publicis and Omnicom have the combination of both mad men and math men who are going to be required to win in the future.
As our clients succeed in this landscape so too do our shareholders.
Investors in Omnicom and Publicis will benefit from 2 very strong publicly-traded companies coming together.
In fact Publicis and Omnicom have the strongest track records of financial performance in the industry.
We fully expect this to continue after the merger with strong cash flow generations for the shareholders.
Today we each have strong balance sheets and we each have the ability to invest internally in our growth and make acquisitions as they arise.
Together our ability reach and flexibility grows even stronger.
The proposed merger is the combination of the 2 best-managed holding companies in the industry and the reaction from our employees and clients has been very positive.
So there is no doubt in my mind that the creation of Publicis Omnicom Group is the right move providing best-in-class marketing and communication services that will support our clients develop and attract the best talent and enable shareholders to continue to invest with confidence in an even stronger communications enterprise.
With respect to the merger approval process it's moving forward as expected.
The process of seeking regulatory approval is now well underway in 16 jurisdictions covering 46 countries.
Given the number of jurisdictions involved it's difficult to predict the exact timing of regulatory clearance but at this point it is going well.
In preparation for joining together the companies have agreed on an integration approach and our senior management will be meeting later this month to begin the early stages of determining what the Day 1 business requirements and long-term opportunities for the combined company will be.
There is still much to accomplish but at this moment we're on track for closing the deal in early 2014.
It is also important to reiterate until the transaction is complete Omnicom and Publicis will continue to operate as 2 distinct companies.
Before turning the call over to Randy who will go into greater detail on the financials I'd like to make a few more comments on the business highlights for the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier Omnicom places emphasis on education and training as a key to success.
Last quarter we completed Omnicom University's Advanced Management Program at the China Europe International Business School in Shanghai.
In partnership with Fudan University we also held a Digital Work session.
These sessions demonstrate our commitment to training as a company and to building our skills in Greater China.
Ask anyone who's been through these programs around the world and you are likely to get the same answer: these are unique experiences to tackle important client and agency challenges.
They help create stronger leaders better teams and ultimately a better product.
In September Omnicom advanced its reputation for creativity and innovation with another great showing at Spikes which is considered the Cannes of Asia.
For the fifth consecutive year BBDO and DDB were among the top 3 networks recognized for creativity.
Over[ph] 35 agencies in 10 countries contributed to Omnicom winning more than 100 creative awards at Spikes.
Many of the winning Spikes entries were the result of our agencies working together and collaborating on behalf of their clients behind the scenes.
In fact for a growing number of our clients our people are collaborating across disciplines and agencies more closely than ever.
They are sharing insights and ideas and increasingly working together to achieve common objectives for our clients.
Sometimes these teams are informal and organic while at other times they are more structured and centralized.
As a client-focused organization we realize it's not a one-size-fits-all approach to servicing our clients but rather understanding their unique business challenge and developing creative solutions.
A good example is the recent announcement of our partnership with Nissan Motor Company.
Together we signed a multiyear agreement for communications advertising marketing media promotions and digital services.
Our success is the result of our team's ability to present benefits of integration from both a strategic and execution perspective and demonstrate the power of this model to the benefit of our client.
This relationship will be managed by Nissan United.
The team will include numerous Omnicom agencies such as TBWA OMD Interbrand Emanate and others.
This is a unique structure for Nissan as they look to build a consistent brand promise across the globe.
Collaboration and coordination across our agencies is even more important today than ever before.
You may have seen in the press that we recently appointed Troy Ruhanen a top executive from BBDO to a new position at Omnicom to help drive cross-agency collaboration and innovation for many of our largest clients.
Troy is a builder of bridges across agencies and offices and his global experience make him well suited for the challenge.
It has been an exciting 9 months for Omnicom with solid financial results.
Our goal now is a strong finish to the year and an on-schedule closing of our merger with Publicis next year.
With that said I'll turn the call over to Randy for more details on the third quarter.
Thank you John.
It has certainly been an eventful quarter with the announcement of the merger and all of the activities that it's involved.
That said I wouldn't want the upcoming merger to distract from the excellent performance Omnicom's agencies had this quarter and through the first 9 months of this year.
To make our financial presentation easier to follow we've added a third column of numbers labeled Non-GAAP.
This column excludes the incremental costs we've incurred in the third quarter related to the merger.
These costs which are predominantly professional fees totaled $28.1 million and net of taxes reduced EPS by $0.08 per share.
As you all know we do not typically present non-GAAP results but in this case we think it will help to evaluate the relative performance of our operations.
For the presentation I will focus my comments on the Non-GAAP column but we have the reported GAAP numbers side by side for easy reference and clarity.
Again the only difference between the GAAP and non-GAAP results are the exclusion of the merger-related costs and then the follow-on effects on taxes and obviously the summary numbers like net income and EPS.
So moving on.
On the revenue front as John said our agencies are continuing to have a good year despite the relatively weak economic environment.
In the third quarter revenue came in at just under $3.5 billion.
Total growth was approximately 2.5% while organic growth was 4.1%.
FX headwinds and net dispositions brought the growth rate down by 1.6%.
I'll address our revenue growth in more detail in a few slides.
From an earnings perspective our agencies had another excellent quarter.
The ongoing initiatives that focus on efficiency improvements and streamlining our portfolio combined with our individual agency's intense focus on cost control resulted in EBITA increasing 4.5% to $433 million.
The resulting EBITA margin was 12.4% which was up almost 25 basis points over last year.
Operating income or EBIT for the quarter increased 5.2% to $408 million and margins increased just over 30 basis points to 11.7%.
Looking at the items below operating income.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $42.8 million up $2.5 million from the third quarter of last year and up $2.1 million sequentially from the second quarter of this year.
This increase is due to the accrual of contingent interest on a remaining convertible bond.
During the measurement period in the quarter the stock price crossed the threshold requiring us to pay contingent interest on the bond and in accordance with GAAP we accrued the potential interest to be paid through the next call date which is July of 2014.
On the tax front our operating tax rate for the quarter was 33.6% which is in line with our expectations for the full year.
The reported rate was somewhat higher at 34.5% because certain of the merger-related costs are capitalized and nondeductible for tax purposes.
Looking at income from our affiliates and income allocated to our minority shareholders.
There were numerous ups and downs from a year ago as well as currency variances in the quarter with the aggregate effect being no change year-over-year.
As a result of all of that our total non-GAAP net income increased 6.8% to $218 million and net income available for our common shareholders increased by 6.5% to $212 million.
The GAAP net income figures which include the merger-related costs was $196 million and $191 million respectively.
On Slide 3 we compute EPS.
First as a result of stock repurchases we've made over the past 12 months our diluted share count was down about 8.6 million shares or about 3.2% to just under 260 million shares.
As a result our non-GAAP diluted EPS was $0.82 representing an increase of 10.8%.
As I mentioned earlier the costs through the third quarter related to the merger reduced GAAP EPS by about $0.08 down to $0.74 per share which was flat compared to 2012.
On slides 4 5 and 6 we present the summary P&amp;L and EPS information for the year-to-date period but I'm going to leave those pages for you to read.
On Slide 7 we take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to foreign exchange on a year-over-year basis the U.S.
dollar strengthened against most of our major currencies in the quarter except the euro and the Chinese yuan.
The net result reduced revenue in the quarter by $21.7 million or about 0.6%.
As a reminder the majority of our costs are incurred in the same currency as our revenues.
As a result the FX impact on our revenue flows pro rata through to our earnings thus having a negligible effect on our operating margins.
Looking ahead if rates stay where they are currently we expect foreign exchange to be negative between 50 and 75 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions decreased revenue by $34.2 million in the quarter or about 1%.
As we mentioned in July we completed the sale of our recruitment marketing business in the second quarter so the net decrease was in line with our projections.
In terms of organic growth we had a very good quarter.
The growth rate accelerated to 4.1% adding $140 million in absolute terms.
This increase was driven by continuing very strong performance from our media businesses especially in the United States and in Asia further acceleration in our specialty health care businesses and the pharma sector overall.
Another quarter of strong performance from our leading PR brands and then geographically good performance overall in U.S.
the U.K.
and Russia as well as the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America.
Turning to our mix of business on Slide 8.
Brand advertising accounted for 47% of our revenue and marketing services contributed 53%.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising's organic growth was 4.8% driven by the strong performance of our media businesses offsetting a few larger client losses in advertising earlier in the year.
Marketing services in aggregate was up 3.5%.
And within marketing services CRM was up 2.3% primarily driven by increases in our field marketing and branding businesses; and continuing strong performance in public relations posted organic growth of 4.6%; and specialty communications increased 8.3% again primarily driven by the strong performance of our specialty health care businesses.
On Slide 9 our geographic mix of business in the quarter was split 52% domestic and 48% international.
Turning to Slide 10.
In the United States revenue increased $57 million or 3.2%.
Organic growth was very strong up 5% or $88 million.
Again media continued to lead our domestic growth with most of our other disciplines and industries contributing positively as well.
Acquisitions net of dispositions decreased revenue by $31 million or 1.8%.
Again this was driven primarily by the sale of our recruitment marketing business in the second quarter.
International revenue increased $26.5 million or 1.6%.
FX created a headwind causing a revenue decline of $22 million.
Acquisitions net of dispositions decreased revenue by $3 million or about 0.2% again related to the recruitment marketing business that we sold.
And organic growth which continues to improve although slowly and with quite a bit of variance by region was positive at 3.1% adding $51 million.
In our larger European markets consistent with our performance in Q2 Russia and the U.K.
continued to perform very well while Germany and France were down.
Although the Eurozone markets in aggregate were down 1.6% organically in the quarter it was an improvement from the second quarter.
In Asia Pacific we had strong performances across most of the region with very strong results in South Korea Singapore China India New Zealand and Vietnam.
And the Middle East and Latin America turned in solid organic results as well.
We've also provided 2 additional slides slides 11 and 12 that present our geographic revenue by regional subsets: North America Europe Asia Pacific Latin America and Africa and Middle East.
It's obviously the same information just organized differently so I'll leave those for you to read.
Slide 13 shows our mix of business by industry.
As you can see there were very slight changes in our mix of business year-over-year.
In the quarter we had good results in food and beverage; consumer products; pharma as I mentioned before; retail and telecom.
Turning to Slide 14.
Our cash performance for the first 9 months of the year was outstanding.
We generated a little over $1 billion of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
On Slide 15 the breakdown of our primary uses of cash for the 9 months included dividends to common shareholders of about $212 million.
The year-over-year decrease reflected the acceleration of our normal early January dividend payment to December 31 of last year and that was offset by our increase in the dividends paid per share.
Dividends paid to minority interest shareholders were $81 million and capital expenditures were $123 million.
CapEx was down from last year when we had several large office space build-outs.
Acquisitions including earn-out payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $89 million and share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under employee share plans totaled $492 million.
As I believe most of you already know we have suspended our stock repurchase activity since the announcement of the merger.
So on a net basis for the 9 months our uses of cash effectively equaled the cash generated in the business.
Slide 16 shows our current capital structure.
As you may recall we redeemed $407 million of our convertible notes during the second quarter.
As a result our total debt at September 30 declined to just over $4 billion.
Our net debt position at the end of the quarter increased slightly up $30 million from a year ago to $2.52 billion.
As a result our total-debt-to-EBITDA ratio decreased to 1.9x while our net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio is 1.2x.
It stayed unchanged from this point last year.
And our interest coverage ratio is 10.6x.
Obviously all the metrics are in good shape.
And finally on Slide 17 both our return on invested capital and our return on equity have continued to improve.
For the past 12 months our return on invested capital was 16.7% and our return on equity was just short of 30%.
Well that concludes our prepared remarks.
There are several other supplemental slides included in the presentation materials that we'll leave for your review.
And at this point I'm going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to the line of John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> When you initially announced the transaction there was a bit of concern about potential account losses or client conflicts.
Now that you're a couple of months in what have you heard from clients? And does the risk appear to be somewhat maybe more modest than other deals of size you've seen in the past? We have -- we've seen no difficulties thus far.
There -- we've been in the business for a long time and each one of the holding companies has long had the procedures and firewalls to deal with conflicts.
If issues arise in the future we'll deal with it.
But to date we're in good shape.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then maybe one other quick one.
The euro currency markets obviously as you mentioned improved to levels we haven't seen in a few quarters.
I know you've talked about some moving pieces in those markets in the past but is it your sense that you're moving off of the bottom across the entire region? No.
I think we might be stabilizing near the bottom.
We had good performance in a couple markets where we have businesses that are growing not necessarily because of the individual markets that's in Spain and Portugal.
But Germany and France Belgium those markets in[ph] Netherlands they were all negative.
And next we'll go to the line of Alexia Quadrani with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I guess first you saw some real nice growth in the U.S.
improvement in the U.S.
in the quarter and continued strength in the U.K.
I guess any color you can give in terms of how we should view those sort of important markets going into the fourth quarter? Will the trend continue I guess? It's hard to say.
I think it's down to the individual performance of our agencies not necessarily economic growths.
And you have to remember that this year the fourth quarter the retail schedule is shorter than in the past because of the late Thanksgiving.
The next quarter is also -- as you know like the fourth quarter every year we've been talking about it for years now with sort of year-end project revenues is always a little bit more difficult to forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also I guess my second question is you've got obviously a very strong balance sheet and very healthy cash flow and now with the buyback suspended due to the pending merger I think you'll have even a stronger cash position whenever sort of this deal -- when this deal gets done and when you're allowed to sort of step back into the market.
Could you give us an update I guess on your priorities of use of cash maybe longer term? Can we expect a more accelerated buyback potentially once you get the green light? I guess any comments on that front would be great.
Well as we sit here today from the Omnicom side of the table our intention is to follow pretty similar -- follow what we've done in the past.
When the new company [ph] comes into existence there'll be a new Board of Directors and we'll have to sit down with the Board of Directors and -- Maurice and myself and determine what that board will authorize.
So I think it's a little premature to be talking about accelerations or changes from our past behavior.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly thank you for the color you guys gave in terms of where you are on the merger and the outlook there.
From the outside -- for us that are sitting on the outside is there something we can look at in terms of a benchmark or points that we can see that's saying now progress has been made or these hurdles have sort of been overcome? I guess I don't know if there's any answer to that question but I thought I'd ask.
On the deal there's -- I assume you're talking from a transaction perspective.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
Okay.
So there's really sort of 4 gating items.
There's the antitrust track.
So at this point in time as John pointed out we've done our filings or at least the preliminary filings.
And I think every jurisdiction -- maybe some small markets some place we haven't gotten done quite yet but every major jurisdiction we've got the filings in and we're in really sort of the information stage.
We're answering questions following up and people are evaluating it so we don't have any news really one way or the other.
It's progressing on a very good track.
People spent a huge amount of time and effort getting those filings done.
We did get clearance in South Korea and -- okay.
Michael? Yes.
This is Mike O'Brien General Counsel.
We've received clearance actually in South Korea and also in South Africa we just found out yesterday.
So we have had a couple of minor victories there if you will.
And everything else that Randy described is the best way to describe it it's in process.
We're comfortable with the way things have gone so far and the conversations we've had so far and we're optimistic but it's still in process.
The second track is taxes.
There's 3 jurisdictions that we need to get tax approvals on and we're in process of doing that again still early.
And then there's the SEC and AMF or AFM filings and again that's -- we're also in process on.
It's hard to determine which one of those will be the specific gating item at the end but I think everything is proceeding as we would have expected.
And as we clear major hurdles as we go through this we'll inform the public.
And next we'll go to the line of Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
A couple of things please.
First just one question on the numbers.
You've had some dispositions taking away from numbers a little bit in the last couple of quarters.
Just wondering when we'll be cycling through that.
And also I may have remembered this wrong but I think as I recall some of those dispositions actually were profitable.
So my question is would your margin have actually been a bit better had you not gotten rid of those assets during the quarter? And then secondly on the merger again I hear your comments and I understand what you're saying about not shutting down agencies and this is about size and scale.
I'm wondering in particular about your digital businesses though.
How will you treat your data and digital operations between Publicis and Omnicom? Is it a question of merging databases? Is it a question of putting teams into larger organizations? It just seems like there's so much opportunity to gain scale but if you intend to keep things separate I just wonder how you plan to run it.
Those -- you're talking about the various platforms that we invest in? Yes.
As opposed to the agencies -- and when I say agencies I mean the networks and the companies.
There's an integration process that Maurice and I and our management teams have agreed to and so we're going to valuably use the time that it takes us to get through all these regulatory issues to sit and plan what is the most sensible profitable thing to do and what the priority in which we should act once we're allowed to act after the deal is approved.
So that process is just about to begin.
And intuitively I know exactly what you're saying.
We will go through it in detail with the people who are the experts in it and make that determination in the coming weeks and months.
As far as your divestitures questions go the biggest single divestiture we did we completed pretty much at the end of the second quarter so that's going to take us 4 quarters to cycle on that.
It was roughly $35 million a quarter of revenue probably a little bit of variance quarter-to-quarter.
And as far as the margins go no those companies -- if we had those companies in the portfolio our margins would not have been higher.
Those companies that we've divested its margins are less than Omnicom's average margin.
Next we'll go to the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
A few questions please.
Each quarter you generally will give us what your net new business wins were in the quarter.
I think your quarterly target is generally about $1 billion.
How did that track this last quarter please? It's a little bit under $900 million.
Okay.
Then secondly can you talk a little bit further about your very strong U.K.
performance? Why was it so strong please? Again it's specific agency performance.
Specific agency performance.
Really just people in the right place at the right time and winning a few pieces of business.
Yes.
So there's no...
Those agencies there in particular had a very good run.
Okay.
Because I remember last quarter the second quarter you guys mentioned that there's a large French account that shifted I guess from France to London.
That helped this quarter as well or no? It probably added to the overall performance between the 2 countries but it's not the sole reason for it.
Yes.
It wasn't the major -- it was -- again the revenue moved but it was not a major driver in the quarter.
And then also concerning your merger I wanted to ask if you could just give us further clarity or further update here on that $500 million cost savings target.
Can you just maybe give us a little more clarity on what's behind that number in terms of how confident are you that you can get the $500 million number and what's the big nuggets to get to that $500 million cost savings? I think you've talked about getting there by Year 5.
Yes.
I believe the $500 million number we used is modest and comes from a variety of just natural things that you would expect when 2 groups this size come together.
We together spend over $4 billion in third-party services and other type of costs and we should gain quite a bit of efficiency in having a common insurance platform to be able to utilize what little excess rent occurs in any particular city at any particular time.
Our auditors shouldn't cost as much as they do individually.
There's a whole series of things buried in that that are just natural.
There's hard work and -- there's some work and planning in getting to those results but sometimes you have to wait until your current policies have lapsed before you can move to the next level.
So it's not all Day 1.
But there's a great deal of that cost that's buried in that number itself.
Yes.
We went through when we were developing I'll say the potential efficiencies on that level.
We started at our billings numbers and worked our way down looking at our P&amp;Ls sort of line by line.
As John pointed out there's over $4 billion of third-party costs.
There is $15 billion or $14 billion of salary and service costs.
We have a number of ideas of how we can get efficiencies across the board.
Obviously each company has a lot of their own best practices.
We're going to evaluate each company's best practices and move towards them.
I think everybody is pretty confident that there's -- the $500 million worth of efficiencies is a pretty conservative number.
And then lastly if I could ask you've mentioned in the past you have to spend you think $400 million over I think 5 years to achieve these synergies.
Is that still your -- the correct number you think? I don't think we have any better data than we had when we first put it out.
As John also pointed out due to the process that we're in the 2 companies have to continue to operate separately and can share limited amounts of data and information.
So we're -- frankly as far as identifying specifics we're not allowed further than we were I'll say pre-deal announcement.
Next we'll go to the line of Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A quick first question on business trends.
So you came in at 4.1% organic growth for the quarter.
Can you comment at all on any major variances versus your expectations for that by geography or discipline? Just really repeating what Randy said on the call.
The U.S.
we were fortunate.
We certainly grew faster than the economy and that's due to specific performance of specific agencies.
And I'd say the same is pretty much true in the U.K.
Yes.
And some standout areas our media companies have been -- frankly for a few quarters at least have been doing a great job.
I think that's predominantly driven by their performance just good business practices at this point good new business wins.
The pharma and health care area is rebounding pretty well also.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then based on September are those statements as true based on how September came in which I understand is generally a large marketing month for the industry? Yes.
I mean we don't -- September was good first no question.
We don't dissect this analysis down to that microscopic level.
We're the first guys to tell you that we even think the quarter-to-quarter analysis has flaws if you're trying to draw conclusions at this level of granularity.
When you get month-to-month you're really trying to -- you're trying to find something that's really not there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just can you just comment a little bit on some of the emerging markets just in general terms what you're seeing going on in markets such as China and Latin America and just maybe emerging markets in general? Our performance continues to be strong.
Those markets aren't growing this past 6 months in the same way that they were growing 2 years ago.
But there's still good growth and there's still plenty of opportunity because there's a lot of share opportunity in those markets for us.
And they're extremely impactful because they've gotten bigger as well.
So while the maybe growth percentage numbers were bigger a couple of years ago when I look at the rank order of who's adding dollars of organic growth because that's ultimately what counts China and Russia are in the top 4 or top 5.
That's impressive to me.
The U.S.
is always the most important market because of the size as well as combining it with 5% growth so certainly not an emerging market but an extremely important growth market.
Research Division</strong> And Randy finally so you're not buying back shares currently.
Are there any prospects that you may be able to buy back shares at all before the merger closes? Or should we just presume that you're out of the market until it does? Prospects yes.
I think you have to presume that we're out of the market until the merger closes because that's right now what our agreement says.
Next we'll go to the line of Brian Wieser with Pivotal Research.
I have 2.
First on the merger costs.
I was wondering if you can give any color as to how much you expect to incur prior to the closure if any costs are coming out of the normal operating expenses.
But just any extra color on how you expect that to proceed.
And a separate question I was just curious production decouplings kind of I think a fascinating new space.
We've seen Publicis just announce Prodigious.
I'm curious how much interest you're seeing from clients on the topic and how you expect that to play out going forward.
There's a couple of questions there.
We have -- we're in the process actually of sitting down with our production companies to see -- because we are global we're not yet globally branded or managed globally I suspect that will occur in the coming months as we've seen the benefits of it.
Clients are in fact pitching or requesting bids on larger areas of its production.
They used to be done more regionally.
Now they're getting outside of regions.
So that's an opportunity for us before we close and then certainly it will be an opportunity post closing for us.
With respect to merger-related costs...
I didn't actually get the question if you'd repeat it.
Sure.
I was curious if you have a sense of how many -- what your costs will be through the remainder of the merger process.
And are all those costs associated with the transaction incremental? In other words are there any costs that you're normally incurring that are incorporated in those costs? The answer to the second part is no.
The answer to the first part unfortunately I don't have -- a great estimate it's a lot.
A lot of attorneys running around nonstop.
This is a fairly large and complex transaction as we mentioned on just the antitrust alone.
We did economic studies on something like 47 different markets.
So I suspect the transaction fees will be at least 1.5 2x what we've already spent I would think.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on the production decoupling topic if I may.
I'm curious if you have a point of view on the net economics of it.
In other words the notion of a standalone production decoupling business is it a higher-return-on-capital business? Is it a lower one but it's something clients just increasingly want? I'm curious on your thoughts on the economics of that trend.
Well we actually have 3 at the moment 3 standalone businesses which are really serving different regions of the world.
We're looking to see whether or not we should be expanding that and combining to respond to pitches.
And I suspect when we're done with that evaluation the answer is probably going to be yes.
It's good business.
It's a growing business.
I don't quite understand where you're going with the economics of it.
Well I guess what we've heard from the procurement trade certainly is the substantial savings that comes out of the creative agency fees paid.
Although it's possible that the savings that come out of what they're spending you recoup with a higher-margin business essentially.
I'm just curious if that's something that is accurate if -- or if it's not at all.
There's -- we even -- we joke internally production is a fat word.
Production means a lot of different things because we have a breadth.
Whether it's print production or creating digital websites or doing banner ads or doing TV commercials doing postproduction there's a lot of different aspects to production.
So when you're saying creating -- when we talk about creating a production unit we've basically been globalizing and creating 3 separate production companies for the last several years.
Correct.
There are also a number of other production capabilities we have internally and we also manage a very large amount of third-party production.
I think it's well over $4 billion or $5 billion.
So in looking at that whole space it's a very interesting business.
It's a business where we're managing a lot of client spend and we're doing a lot of different pieces of the work so we think there's a very significant opportunity bringing those businesses together and focusing on it in a more aggregated global way going forward.
And next we'll go to the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to Europe for a second.
I was struck by your comment on Germany still being down.
I mean there have been some economic indicators saying that market is starting to turn.
Are you seeing any hope there near-term? It was down slightly for us in the quarter yes.
Post elections confidence is there again but we haven't seen signs of -- tangible signs of it really coming back in the manner that it was -- it performed in the past.
But it has stabilized as Randy said.
And so we're cautiously optimistic that at the center of Europe coming back at all is going to be Germany's performance and we're optimistic that we'll see it.
Just to make sure we're consistent.
Don't read too much into 1 quarter's set of numbers especially when you cut it up by 1 country at a time.
Our numbers are our numbers.
New business activity wins or losses individual performance of our clients in that country year-over-year timing and the economy affect the number.
A lot of people read those numbers they hear the number and think it's just a straight indication of the economy economics in that specific market in the quarter and are also generally thinking of that sequentially from last quarter.
The numbers we're presenting are year-over-year numbers and they had a lot of different things in that mix so...
Next we'll go to the line of James Dix with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Randy I will make it a 2-parter then.
Hopefully I don't make it too long a 2-parter.
How have you been explaining to clients the potential for better service and/or pricing in the media buying and planning businesses as a result of the merger? Because where I'm kind of getting at is I mean you've talked about say $4 billion in third-party spending that you're doing and you came up with a synergy number on that.
So I'm just curious as to whether there's any way of thinking about synergies in the much larger amount of third-party spending you do on media platforms on behalf of clients.
And then secondly as you've gone through the merger process to the extent you have so far has your outlook on what margins should be for Omnicom just on a standalone basis over the next few years changed at all? In the first question because we are still functioning as 2 completely separate companies we -- and as I earlier -- an answer to an earlier comment on the digital side and platforms we have not yet sat down and done an evaluation to determine what we might do in the areas of platforms.
We just have not.
When you get into media if you look in the traditional medias it's a supply-and-demand business no matter how large you are and clients have specific needs.
So I don't see seismic moves in pricing our ability to control anything because of us combining.
In the digital area I think there are grand opportunities even if we weren't combining because there's an awful lot of media.
And more and more budget is being shifted that way and when that happens if you get to a point where you can aggregate certain aspects of it and get lot -- get a full library of premium digital inventory there's more and more you can do with it.
Those benefits get shared with the client currently.
That will only increase I think as we move forward.
As far as margins go we've been committed for decades of using the power of the holding company to drive the efficiencies that are possible at each individual agency.
And keeping -- we want to make sure our agencies each of them are operating at the right margin for their business or their optimal margin and using the holding company to make those margins continuously a little bit higher and hopefully to reduce the volatility of performance.
Mix of business is also an important driver in evaluating margins overall.
Not every business and every geography has the same potential margin.
So as we move forward with greater size we certainly believe there's new heights that we can drive margins greater efficiencies to be had.
I'm sure we're going to learn quite a bit from the standpoint of best practices.
I'm sure that some of our agencies and some of the way we do things is fantastic and I'm sure a lot of the ways that we're going to learn from our -- our new partners what they do is fantastic and the combination should get us to a new level.
Thank you all very much.
We appreciate your time.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
If you need assistance during the call (Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to now introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our first quarter 2014 earnings call.
We hope everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release.
We posted on the omnicomgroup.com website both our press release and the presentation covering the information that we will be presenting this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that is included at the end of our investor presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and actual events or results may differ materially.
I would also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measure in the presentation materials.
We're going to begin the call with some remarks from John Wren about both the state of our business and our potential merger with Publicis.
Following John's remarks we will review our financial performance for the first quarter and then both of us will be happy to take your questions.
Good morning.
I would like to thank you all for joining our conference call.
I am pleased to speak to you about our first quarter business results and update you on the progress we've made on our strategic initiatives.
At the end of my remarks for the quarter I'll update you on the proposed merger with Publicis.
Randy and I will be available to answer questions at the end of the prepared remarks.
Omnicom's performance continues to consistently demonstrate the strength diversity and stability of our business.
As you know 2013 ended successfully as markets improved around the world and we met all our stated objectives for the year.
I am pleased to report that our excellent performance in 2013 was reflected in the level of bonuses earned by our employees for achieving these objectives.
2014 is off to a very good start.
Irrespective of the timing open issues or complexities of the proposed merger our employees have remained focused on our clients and growth strategies.
Importantly we are on plan to meet our targets for the full year 2014.
Now back to the quarter.
Our growth strategies continue to result intangible benefits.
During the quarter we made several strategic acquisitions we continued to enter into innovative partnerships and made significant progress in advancing our industry-leading digital and data platforms.
I'll cover this in more detail in a moment.
For the quarter organic growth was 4.3%.
Our year-over-year margins excluding merger-related expenses continued to improve.
We also continued to invest internally in our talents and agencies to expand our partnerships and to make acquisitions in innovative service areas that will fuel our growth.
In many ways our first quarter results are reaffirmation of our performance in the market improvement we have experience since the second half of 2013.
Broadly speaking the U.S.
and the U.K.
are showing consistent forward momentum.
Euro markets are steadily but slowly improving.
For the first time since the first quarter of 2012 we had positive organic growth in this region.
Among our larger euro markets Germany was positive for the quarter while France continued to be negative.
Latin America Asia and Eastern Europe continued to perform well with some countries spending above others; specifically Brazil Russia China and India.
The crisis in Ukraine occurred late in the quarter and we do not yet have visibility on the impact it may have in Russia and our other European operations.
By discipline we experienced positive results across our business.
Within the brand advertising category we had very strong overall growth in media including high double-digit increases in search and programmatic buying.
In CRM our sports and event marketing and shopper marketing operations performed extremely well.
In our specialty category we continue to see very positive growth in our healthcare business.
Turning to our cash flow and balance sheet the diversity and stability of our business has once again reflected in both our strong cash flow generation and in our industry-leading return on equity.
Omnicom's strong cash flow balance sheet and liquidity provide us the flexibility to prudently and opportunistically invest in our people and our operations as well as in acquisitions that improve and expand our service offerings and footprint.
Overall I am extremely pleased with the operating and financial performance of our business.
Let me now provide an update on the progress we are making against our key strategic initiatives.
Recruiting developing and retaining the best talent expanding our geographic footprint and service offerings to our clients particularly in emerging disciplines in economy investing in our digital and analytical competencies in the key markets around the world and delivering big ideas based upon meaningful consumer insights across all marketing and communication channels.
Our ongoing investments in recruitment diversity and training programs are helping us improve the skills of the many talented individuals at our agencies.
An important measurement of our challenges is industry peer and client recognition.
Let me just mention a few of our achievements during the quarter.
FleishmanHillard was named agency of the year by PRWeek.
BBDO Worldwide was named the most awarded agency network in the world in 2013 Gunn Report for the eighth consecutive year and DVB was the third most awarded network.
Also for the eighth consecutive year Omnicom's Media Group OMD Worldwide was named the world's most creative media agency by the Gunn Report.
I want to congratulate all the people and agencies for their many outstanding achievements.
As I mentioned on our last call collaboration across different marketing services and geographies is the new normal.
Many large multinational clients are asking us to manage their entire marketing process bringing them big ideas and delivering them across disciplines media and markets.
At Omnicom we have formed teams of subject matter experts from across our agencies for the purpose of delivering integrated solutions building brand and driving results for our clients.
Our approach is designed to fulfill our clients' needs and desires for integrated services and allows us to support and grow the iconic brands in our portfolio.
We believe our ability to recruit and retain top talent and to provide the best service to our clients is achieved by ensuring our brands maintain their individuality and collaborate to meet our clients' needs.
To further strengthen our efforts we have recently announced that Peter Sherman is rejoining Omnicom as an Executive Vice President to lead innovation and collaboration across our client portfolio.
Peter is returning to Omnicom from J.
Walter Thompson where he served as CEO of North America.
In the war for talent there's nothing more rewarding than seeing a former employee rejoin Omnicom after leaving for a period of time to work for a competitor.
Last quarter we continued to expand our capabilities through acquisitions in the digital and in mobile areas.
In February we completed the acquisition of 22feet one of India's leading and most dynamic digital marketing firms.
22feet will be merged with Tribal Worldwide India part of the DDB Mudra Group.
The new agency will offer its clients end-to-end digital and mobile marketing solutions.
In Brazil we took a majority stake in the advertising agency Mood.
Continuing to expand the capabilities of the TBWA Brazil group Mood's culture of innovation and depth of talent will strengthen our business capabilities in that market.
Also in Latin America Omnicom's Media Group recently acquired Media Interactive which expands our capabilities in Chile Colombia and Peru.
Lastly in the U.K.
Omnicom's Media Group acquired Mobile5 whose work includes creating mobile ads developing apps and building mobile sites.
Mobile5 will serve as a mobile Center of Excellence for the group in the European region.
In addition to these acquisitions we continue making internal investment in our networks agencies and service platforms.
Today's market complexity demands our agencies to deliver their services seamlessly and efficiently across mediums and markets.
Given this backdrop Omnicom recently announced the formation of Eg+ Worldwide a global implementation and production agency which will be a leader in leveraging the latest technologies to help global brands implement amplified and localized creative concepts across moving image digital and print media channels.
Today Eg+ deliver services globally through our offices in L.A.
New York Paris London Singapore and Tokyo supported by digital production centers in China India Mexico and Poland.
Eg+ has 39 offices and more than 1 200 employees around the world.
As I have said before our industry has become increasingly complex and fragmented.
New platforms and technologies come and go at mach speed.
We have therefore maintained an open partnership with technological leaders as opposed to making bets on specific platforms.
This approach allows us to have access to the latest technologies for the benefit of our clients marketing strategy.
Consistent with this strategy last month we signed the first of its kind agreement with Instagram.
Instagram product change will partner with our media and creative agencies including our OMD PHD as well as BBDO DDB and TBWA to develop highly visual digital concepts for our clients.
Overall our diverse service capabilities and top talent combined with our open-source approach to technology and extensive partnerships are unique in our industry and position us extremely well for the future.
Turning to the proposed merger with Publicis given the merger's complexity and open issues the transaction is moving slower than we originally anticipated.
To better understand our progress it is important to delineate the three separate approval tracks we are working on.
First is antitrust.
Clearance has been obtained in the U.S.
the E.U.
and 12 other countries around the world.
China is the only market remaining for antitrust approval.
On April 17<sup>th</sup> Omnicom and Publicis entered Phase 3 of the Chinese review process.
Phase 3 is a 60-day period ending June 16 2014.
If the regulator is not able to resolve all questions by June 16<sup>th</sup> we will need to withdraw and resubmit our filings and continue the process.
Second is tax the French tax ruling approval process is pending.
In addition Omnicom and Publicis have made joint applications with other tax authorities for purposes of establishing the desired tax treatment of the new Publicis Omnicom Group.
Specifically we have jointly applied to the Dutch Ministry of Finance and the U.K.
HM Revenue &amp; Customs authority to establish exclusive tax residency in the United Kingdom.
Unexpectedly to-date we have been unable to obtain the Competent Authority agreements necessary to establish the tax status.
If we cannot obtain these agreements it could affect the likelihood of satisfaction of the conditions to closing of our deal.
Last other regulatory approvals the S4 has to be filed with reviewed and declared effective by the SEC similarly the European perspectives is to be filed with reviewed and approved by the AFM the Netherlands regulatory authority for financial markets.
We have not yet completed our filed documents with either the SEC or the AFM.
The timing financial statement preparation and other disclosures are in process.
Given the proposed merger's complexity and open issues at this point it's not practical to predict exactly when the transaction will close.
Before I turn the call back to Randy we will go through Omnicom's first quarter financial performance in greater detail I'd like to make a few final comments.
Financially Omnicom has continued to excel in delivering consistent revenue growth strong margin performance stable cash flows and an industry leading return on invested capital.
We remain strongly committed to maintaining this performance.
Strategically we have a very stable talent base and are making significant progress on our core priorities.
We believe we are very well positioned to compete in an increasingly complex and dynamic landscape.
Our liquidity and strong balance sheet allow us to further invest in the business make acquisitions and deliver value to our shareholders.
Finally I'd like to acknowledge the spirit and drive of the people at all of our companies that I believe are the best in the industry.
The creativity and insights they deliver to our world-class clients their ability to work together across disciplines and geographies and their financial discipline are the key factors that show themselves in our top and bottom line results.
Randy? Thank you.
As John detailed our agencies continue to make excellent progress against both their strategic and operational objectives.
They have continued to make the investments needed to further develop and expand their capabilities which consistently resulted in the highest organic growth rates in the industry.
I think the market now stands at 19 in the last 22 years.
Equally important they have made these investments while establishing a track record of delivering outstanding quarter-to-quarter financial performance for our shareholders.
As John also pointed out our Q1 performance is a great start to keeping that track record going for another year.
As we have done for last couple of quarters this quarter we have again added our third column of numbers labeled non-GAAP.
The only difference between the GAAP and non-GAAP figures is that we have excluded the incremental cost and we have incurred related to the potential merger with Publicis in the non-GAAP figures.
These costs which are predominantly professional fees totaled $7 million during the quarter.
Most of these costs are not tax-deductible therefore most of the cost flow straight through to net income.
This quarter net income was reduced by $6.8 million and EPS was impacted by $0.03.
We believe that the non-GAAP figures help in evaluating the performance of our operations.
For the presentation I will focus most of my comments on the non-GAAP column so we have included the reported numbers side-by-side for easy reference and clarity.
Page 1 for the quarter revenue came in at $3.5 billion.
The good news was organic revenue growth which following another industry-leading year in 2013 increased again this quarter to 4.3%.
The bad news was FX continued to be a fairly strong headwinds negatively impacting revenue by 70 basis points and acquisitions net of dispositions decreased revenue by another 60 basis points.
I'll go into further detail on our revenue growth in a few minutes.
Moving down to P&amp;L our non-GAAP EBITDA increased 4.3% to $414 million and resulting EBITDA margin was 11.8% which was up 10 basis points over Q1 of last year.
FX this quarter in addition to hurting revenue also negatively impacted operating margins by about 10 basis points.
The markets where FX had a biggest negative impact were Brazil Canada and Russia which are generally higher than average margin markets as well.
In spite of the FX challenges non-GAAP operating income or EBIT for the quarter increased 4.8% to $390 million and the operating margin of 11.1% increased 20 basis points year-over-year.
Again the only difference between the non-GAAP and GAAP numbers is the exclusion of the $7 million of incremental merger-related costs.
Turning to Page 2 and looking at the items below operating income.
First net interest expense for the quarter was $39 million down $1.9 million year-over-year and down about $800 000 from the fourth quarter.
Almost all of the change was due to lower short-term debt balances driven by both better working capital management and the suspension of our share repurchase program since the middle of last year.
Taxes due to the increased benefits from the tax reorganization that we completed at the end of 2012 our operating tax rate for the quarter [and] in line with our expectations going forward will be about 33.2% down from the 33.6% rate we had for the last couple of years.
The GAAP tax rate of 33.8% was higher this quarter because nearly all of the merger costs are not tax-deductible.
Earnings from our affiliates decreased to $600 000 this quarter primarily as a result of a reduction in the year-over-year performance of certain of our affiliates in the Middle East and the allocation of earnings to the minority shareholders and our less than fully owned subsidiaries increased $2.8 million to $22.5 million mainly the result of the strong performance of our Latin American and Middle Eastern operations which have a local minority shareholders.
As a result of the foregoing our non-GAAP net income for the quarter was $212 million an increase of 3.5% versus Q1 of 2013.
On Slide 3 we show the allocation of net income to common shareholders and to participating securities which are the unvested restricted shares held by our employees.
The resulting non-GAAP net income available for common shares in Q1 was $208 million.
This chart also shows our diluted share count which with the suspension of our share buyback program is only down marginally from Q1 of 2013.
As a result our non-GAAP diluted EPS increased 5.3% to $0.80 and our GAAP EPS increased $0.01 to $0.77 per share.
On Slide 4 we take a closer look at our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX on a year-over-year basis the U.S.
dollar weakened versus the euro the pound in the RMB.
It strengthened against most of our other significant operating currencies.
The more significant markets included Australia Brazil Canada Japan and Russia.
The net result reduced our revenue for the quarter by $22 million or about 0.7%.
Looking ahead if FX rates stay where they are currently we expect FX to turn positive by about 60 basis points in Q2 and about 25 basis points for the full-year.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions decreased revenue by 0.6%.
This is primarily due to the sale of a recruitment marketing business during the second quarter of 2013.
Our recent acquisitions continue to partially offset the impact of this disposition.
We expect acquisitions net of dispositions to be negative again in the second quarter but then we cycle through the disposition of the recruitment marketing business by the third quarter and acquisitions should have a positive effect in the second half of the year.
Finally with regard organic growth we had another strong quarter up 4.3% or about $147 million.
This was driven by a combination of items.
First our agencies continue to benefit from the development and expansion of their integrated digital capabilities.
Although widespread the growth of our media business is the most recent best example of this trend.
We also continue to benefit from the strong performance of our agencies in the emerging markets.
This quarter we had excellent organic performance in a number of markets including Argentina Brazil China Colombia India Indonesia and Malaysia.
Finally although slow the recovery of Europe and our European businesses continues.
Turning to our mix of business on Slide 5 for the quarter our revenue was split 49% brand advertising and 51% marketing services.
As for their respective organic growth rates brand advertising was up 4.9% again driven by the strong growth in our media business and marketing services was up 3.8%.
Within marketing services CRM was up 4.2% a strong performance across our businesses with our events sales promotion production and research businesses leading the way.
Public relations was up 1.2% in the quarter and specialty communications increased 5.2% driven by another strong quarter from our healthcare businesses.
On Slide 6 our regional mix of business in the quarter was split approximately 57% in North America 25% in Europe 10% in Asia Pacific with the remainder in Latin America and Africa and the Middle East.
In North America we had organic revenue growth of 4.8% driven by our media brand advertising and CRM businesses.
Our other regions all had positive organic growth as well.
Europe was up 2.3% led by strong performance in the U.K.
and Russia.
Asia-Pac was up 5.7% Latin America was up 7.4% led by strong results in Brazil and Africa and the Middle East was up 6.6%.
In our larger European markets as I mentioned earlier the U.K.
and Russia continued their strong performance.
Germany Ireland Portugal and Spain were all positive this quarter and unfortunately France continue to struggle.
Although our organic revenue performance in aggregate for the Eurozone was only marginally positive in the quarter this represented the fourth consecutive quarter of sequential improvement.
In Asia-Pac we had strong performances across most of the region with double-digit organic growth in Malaysia Indonesia Japan and the Philippines and high single-digit growth in India New Zealand China Vietnam and Singapore.
In Latin America Argentina Brazil and Colombia all turned in double-digit organic results.
We have also provided an additional slide on Page 7 that presents our revenue by our old geographic subsets.
Obviously this is the same revenue data just group differently.
I'll leave that information for you to review separately.
On Slide 8 we present our mix of business by industry sector.
Keep in mind these numbers are total growth not just organic growth.
As you can see there was only a slight change year-over-year with the retail sector increasing on the strength of several client wins over the past year and the telecom sector lagging behind this quarter.
Now turning to Slide 9 first you will notice we changed the format of this slide so you have to let us know offline what you think about the new presentation.
As for our performance we had a strong start to the year from a cash perspective as well.
We generated $312 million of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital during the quarter.
As for our primary uses of cash dividends paid during the quarter totaled $131 million consisting of dividends to common shareholders of $106 million and then $25 million paid to minority interest shareholders.
This was up significantly from last year when we pay our normal Q1 dividend in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Capital expenditures of $42 million was up about $4 million from last year acquisitions including earnout payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $16 million.
Finally share repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled only $9 million.
This is down $230 million from 2013 because we were required to suspend our share repurchase program following the announcement of the potential merger with Publicis.
As a result we generated $114 million in net free cash during the quarter again excluding changes in working capital.
Turning to Slide 10 focusing first on our capital structure the primary year-over-year change was the redemption of $407 million of our convertible notes during the second quarter of last year.
As a result our total debt at March 31<sup>st</sup> was down to just over $4 billion and our net debt position at the end of the quarter was $1 950 billion down about $420 million from last year.
As a result of the decreased debt our total debt to EBITDA ratio improved to 1.9 times and our net debt to EBITDA ratio improved to just 0.9 times and our interest coverage ratio remains very strong at 10.8 times.
On Slide 11 you can see we again delivered excellent returns on both total invested capital and common equity.
Although both return figures were negatively impacted by the suspension of our share repurchase program they remained very strong with the return on invested capital of 17.1% and return on equity of 29% for your reference these returns were computed under reporting GAAP numbers not the non-GAAP figures.
Finally on slide 12 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders for the last 10 years.
The line on the top of the chart shows our cumulative net income from fiscal 2004 through March 31<sup>st</sup> of this year which totaled $9.1 billion and the bars below show the cumulative return of cash to shareholders including both dividends and net share repurchases the sum of which during that period totaled $9.4 billion for cumulative payout ratio of just over 103%.
During this period as a result of both our internal investments and very targeted acquisitions we also grew revenue and EPS by 69% and 220% respectively.
With that that concludes our prepared remarks.
There are a number of other supplemental slides included in the presentation materials for your review but at this point we are going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today comes from the line of Craig Huber representing Huber Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Good morning Craig.
Randy or John - Hi.
Can you just elaborate a little bit further your comments earlier just about what's potentially holding up the merger with Publicis.
You mentioned some tax issues and stuff go a little deeper in depth if you would please.
Thanks.
Sure.
I think as we have said consistently this is a very complex transaction.
As a result there are issues that arise which have to be solved so there are really great deal challenges.
There is a number of gating items as I attempted to explain.
From a statutory point of view we have cleared everywhere but China where we are in phase what they call Phase 3.
By comparison Randy might have a little bit more color on this.
(Inaudible) I believe was in Phase 3 for 43 days 45 days something along those lines and the Chinese will move at the speed chart - Chinese will move we respond to their questions as they come up and we have to satisfactorily answer all of the regulators questions before we will get approval.
With respect to tax let me turn that one to Mike O'Brien because it is complex.
I do have an understanding of it but not quite as good as others.
Yes.
Craig I think as John mentioned and I think as everyone knows the tax structure of our deal is very complex and somewhat unexpectedly or probably very unexpectedly obtaining regulatory approvals from the various tax authorities has become more difficult than I think we originally anticipated at the time we signed the deal.
You have to keep in mind too that our agreements with Publicis have a lot of requirements there's a lot of conditions and covenants so there is a lot of moving parts if you will.
You got to remember the new company is to be incorporated in the Netherlands.
The agreements required Publicis' Omnicom's principal place of business being the United Kingdom.
The agreement calls for the merger to be tax-free in a lot of prospects free to Omnicom tax free to our shareholders tax free to Publicis tax-free to Publicis' shareholders.
Finally our agreements with Publicis require that the new company be a tax resident of the United Kingdom and that's essential for the new company's tax planning going forward.
So complying with all these different covenants and conditions certainly presents certain complexities and challenges.
We still have a lot of work ahead of us.
It's not a complete answer to your question because we don't know.
We are tackling these things as we can and as quickly as we can and then we have yet to submit as I said on call the regulatory filings to both to the SEC and the AFM.
Then unrelated question Randy if I could just ask the perform you guys had in the quarter on the organic revenue front and in EBITDA margins of I guess 14 basis points year-over-year adjusted for the one-time items.
Would you expect that similar type performance for the remainder of the year for quorum account please? Yes.
Not 100% sure of that.
We are certainly working to drive every efficiency we can from the business but now we are going to have 14 basis points of margin expansion every quarter I am not sure.
First quarter is a smaller quarter.
We have had great results.
Our businesses are working I think extremely hard both on the business front and the cost control front but we are focused predominantly on investing in our core activities expanding our capabilities to drive revenue growth on a long-term basis.
We have gotten hurt this quarter in particularly by other 10-plus basis points because of FX.
I noted that I don't know how prominently it came out of my comments.
Most of the time FX is pretty neutral when it comes to margins but this quarter frankly the markets where FX was negative happen to be markets that have higher than normal or higher than our average margins so it did have a bit more of a negative impact on margins than what used to be.
Lastly real quick if I could your net new client wins bigger in the second quarter but what was that size please? You usually target about a $1 billion you would hope for? Yes.
We are a little bit under a $1 billion this quarter largely because of the Vodafone loss.
You will get those pretty solid new business period but as I've always said each quarter you get one or two big wins or one or two big losses and it pushes you sort of above or below that $1 billion marks so unfortunately this quarter we are a little bit below it.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up question on your comment regarding your merger I guess given the challenges with the tax approvals and the fact that you are guys had to wait at stuff for the Chinese approvals.
Would you likely hold off and sign I guess a proxy until you get more clarity on these issues? Well that is very complex.
As soon as we file our Q we begun to update our financial statements we order - we will have to do a little bit of work for the first quarter.
Reconciling our GAAP financials to IFRS so we will continue to work on it.
Okay then just a follow-up on the cash.
I think we have talked about in the past for if it wasn't clear you have to wait till the merger is complete so within the buyback or just maybe have the filing done but I guess it sounds like the filing will still be a little raised off here.
Should we assume that right now your cash balance will just obviously build or will you go up through maybe acquisitions or other uses of cash or? I guess any commentary you give on that would be great.
Cash flow obviously builds unless we have uses for it.
Our acquisition pipeline is pretty full but as everyone knows we are pretty discriminating when it comes to acquisitions.
We will continue to be very prudent with shareholders' money and make the acquisitions that we think are beneficial for shareholders.
The timing of that you know frankly is when the acquisitions are ready to close.
I don't think it's really possible for us to spend as much money as we are generating with acquisitions so inevitably I guess that means the cash balances will build.
I guess I put it in another way and I am not sure if this is that easy to answer but has your priorities for use of cash longer term changed or right now it's sort of you are in a bit of a holding pattern.
You still will evaluate acquisitions given the full pipeline but you have always in the past had a preference for share buybacks.
Is it too soon given all the plans and mergers to make that depend that statement still a preference or can we - that once everything is set out and you are free to get back in the market that would likely be use of cash.
Just to be clear what I've always stated is we are going to consistently pay dividend and try to increase that dividend pretty regularly.
Our next priority is making acquisitions that are beneficial to our shareholders and growing our business.
Then we basically use the balance of cash in share repurchases but our first priority has always been great acquisitions.
We generate a lot of free cash.
It's frankly difficult to spend that amount of free cash on acquisitions that are accretive for our shareholders so our historical or recent preference has been to internal development which is a strong focus of every one of our businesses to make sure we have the capabilities necessary to serve our clients.
There is nothing to add to that.
Those have consistently been our objectives and the way that we have approached it.
Omnicom will continue to do that as long as Omnicom is here.
A couple of quarters delay on the share repurchase program.
It doesn't alter our long-range [projected] views or strategic plans.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Frankly because we have cash doesn't mean we are not focused on making sure we pay every bit of attention possible to our own cash management working capital initiatives.
Frankly we have re-doubled those efforts probably each year for the last couple of years.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from line of James Dix with Wedbush.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Just a couple of things as you think about the combined company kind of after the transaction.
I think you've indicated in the past some expectations for higher organic growth of the companies to do that separately maybe in a range of 100 basis points or so.
I am just wondering if you could give any more color qualitatively where that growth would come from any particular types of disciplines any particular types of regions just thinking through that so we can understand where that's coming from.
Then just secondly in terms of the media buying and planning business specifically how should we think about the greater now potential for that business to get leverage in the market in particular on the digital marketing side where it would seem the benefits of scale are quite different than in a more traditional areas like (Inaudible).
Thanks very much.
Sure.
I'll do the first bit last.
Certainly larger media scale is a contributor to growth.
Omnicom and separately Publicis are large enough individually by themselves to get as prices as we know it today.
What it will do it give us a broader client base from which to go out especially from a individual front - premium type inventory as clients may want and therefore we can service or enter into agreement to get a first look or to do whatever we need to do at that time.
Then area by way that we spend a fortune - we spend an appropriate amount of money internally investing in because if you had a strategy a month ago it's not necessarily the strategy for the future because the environment is changing so rapidly and so you have to stay on top of it all the time.
Scale will help.
In terms of our comments and I think I am just going back to our road show and moving consistent since then post the merger and when I say post the merger I don't mean post the merger but after the company start to integrate we have a better opportunity than we currently have marginally but for cross-selling we are going into new areas we are doing a number of things.
Those are efforts which are embedded and for the principal reasons for Omnicom's consistent growth over the last 19 years and so more clients the (Inaudible) systems so we look.
We have the systems we have the people that are trained to Omni Systems of the systems so we so we look forward to that.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you James.
Our next question today comes from the line of William Bird representing FBR.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Other important open issues related to the deal beyond the three-track cited? There are multiple issues.
I mean I don't know - important is a qualitative word the most urgent are they gating items that I mentioned.
I mean it's a large complex transaction so until the day we close there is going to be items that are scores of internal staff and attorneys are focused on.
There is a lot to be done here but there was gating items of the other primary focus to getting the deal close.
Thanks.
When will you know the outcome on your tax status? Is that knowable and how do you think about plan B should approval not come through? Well I think there are scheduled meetings between the two groups scheduled for beginning in next week with the appropriate experts to determine the next steps about going back to the regulators and what we will need to do what we won't need to do.
With respect to a number of items that Michael mentioned there is no plan B.
Those things are requirements to get to a closing.
Thank you.
Thanks Bill.
We will go to line of Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
I'll maybe return to the questions around media planning and buying a little bit more.
Thank you for the data around your growth in search and programmatic media and I was just wondering John if you could expand on that a little bit.
Just maybe broadly broad comment as that business accelerates it sort of how you see the future of media buying evolving.
Is that group around intellect and elsewhere in the business starts to move up and then maybe just specifically around the growth you are seeing if that's more a combination of more clients being willing to come and execute their plans like that or an extension of services of Omnicom.
I am sure it's a little bit of both and they overlap but I would love to hear a little bit more on that.
Sure.
Well your first question analytics is the primary and its related services are where we are concentrating Omnicom's efforts so as to make what we are doing or the strategy and approach we are taking are very focused and controlled and not scattered to the diversity of our company and has proved to be very successful and we have been able to move very quickly in becoming world-class.
The marketplace as you know is changing.
Clients and data to indicate return on investment are becoming accepting digital buys increasingly every week every day.
Some are early adopters some are little slower to dedicated increasing part of their budget and mobile is just about to take off and I don't know sitting here today how much of existing budgets mobile will draw but we are working under the assumption that between display and also to digital venues it's going to increasingly over the coming years drive more and more of the clients' budget because we will be able to tell our - the messaging as to who we reach when we reach them and what the message we are using to reach them is so a lot of effort a lot of very successful platforms are being developed a lot of very innovative partnerships are being entered into and it's ongoing.
We mentioned Instagram on the call.
I was hoping to have yet another interesting one done before the call and then probably come in the next couple of days so it's very iterative and it's a very dynamic landscape platform.
Dan you probably know that as well as anybody.
You have done some really great work in the space with some your digital hub work.
I think the last one I read I thought you nailed it pretty well.
Thanks and thanks for all that detail John.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Randy just a question on cost trends.
Office and general expenses have been sort of flat to down year-over-year for five quarters.
Why is it happening? Is that likely to persist as a trend for the full-year? Before I answer your questions let me just point that we are getting pretty close to market open so we are going to have this to your last call or last question.
Frankly there is a tremendous focus throughout the company throughout every agency top to bottom and side-to-side focused on increasing the efficiency of our operations.
It's a requirement of our clients it's a requirement in the marketplace to stay competitive.
So frankly we are changing the way offices are being structured we are changing the way we are managing all of our back office and support costs.
We have to obviously continue to deliver to our clients the level of consulting services because that's frankly what they are buying but how we are overseeing how we are housing how we are managing those operations are getting more and more efficient every day.
I'll say unfortunately from the standpoint of our ability to drive efficiencies were already pretty efficient in those areas so while there is continuous improvement those improvements can only have a certain degree of ultimate effect because a relatively small percentage of our total cost.
Great thank.
Does that cover everything you had? Yes.
I mean I guess I was just looking for some color on you are implying that you have kind of done everything you can but is no - slightly up likely to be a trend for the rest of the year.
No.
Hopefully I didn't say that.
I didn't mean that we have done everything we can do.
I said is we have done a lot and we are going to continue to focus on and continue to drive those cost improvements.
I think those costs are hopefully flat to maybe slightly declining while we were growing revenue.
There are mix issues and there are geographic issues when FX bounces around the way it's done in the last I'll say few quarters.
This quarter in particular some of the places where FX has had its biggest impact are our higher margin countries and therefore it does have a negative impact a little bit on the margins.
Okay.
Great.
I got it.
Thanks.
We have still three minutes so.
I guess we will take one more question.
All right our final question today will come from line of Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
A question for John one of the primary support point you offered for the merger was kind of the rapid evolution the tech landscape.
Given then it's been about nine months since the announcement and the tech space and the marketing tech space has been early active just wondering if you could update your thoughts here and tell us whether things are kind of roughly playing out the way you expected.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Well I think as Maurice has said I have said many times.
We continue to operate as two separate companies until the merger is approved and we continue to enter into partnerships to make internal investments as fast as we can absorb them and where we see the - you where the stuff is going and that's what we attempt to do every single day and especially in the digital area and our partnerships with all these technology partners and our importance to them allow us some insights as to where they are going and what is going to be beneficial to our clients and that's how we prioritize our investments.
That's just rapidly growing every day.
I have a meeting later on today we are all approved - some significant internal spending to support some programs and some platforms that we believe will start to become normalized by the end of the year that will contribute to our growth in the future so we continue to make those investments we have a fabulous team and there we go.
In terms of what our services are and we know what they're not because there's a lot of confusion when you listen to people and see how each holding company is described.
What we do is we thought we are actually client-focused and most of our people at this point are digitally I would say (Inaudible) are digitally competent to a much higher level than was two three years ago or five years ago and that only improves every single day and Omnicom is very well-positioned.
It contributes to our overall growth because there isn't a campaign or assignment that is significantly digital today so we continue as I'm sure Publicis does in making investments in this area because it is the future and that's where the puck is going to go.
Thank you John.
Okay.
Thank you all very much.
We appreciate your time.
If you follow-up questions we will be happy to try to take them offline.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom second quarter 2014 earnings release conference call.
(Operator Instructions) At this time I'd like to introduce you to today's conference call host Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Omnicom Group Mr.
Randall Weisenburger.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking time to listen to our second quarter 2014 earnings call.
We hope everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release.
We posted on the omnicomgroup.com website both our press release and the presentation covering the information that we'll be reviewing this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I have been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that's included at the end of our investor presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and that actual events or results may differ materially.
I'd also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measure in the presentation material.
We're going to begin the call with an overview of our business from John Wren.
Following John's remarks we will review our financial performance for the quarter and then both of us will be happy to take your questions.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
As I am sure you've seen Omnicom had a very strong second quarter with organic growth up 5.8% over the same quarter last year and we are on track to meet our revenue and margin targets for the full year.
Our results this quarter speak for themselves.
Our agencies and our people have stayed focused on servicing their clients and building their businesses.
At almost 6% this is the best organic revenue growth rate we've posted since the third quarter of 2011.
Since the beginning of the year we have won approximately $2 billion of new business including such well-known brands as Johnson &amp; Johnson CVS Sony Heinz Dixon and several new assignments in the pharmaceutical sector.
During the quarter we resumed our longstanding policies of returning our free cash flow to shareholders.
In May we increased our dividend by 25% and resumed our share repurchase program.
Since mid-May we've repurchased over $550 million in stock.
Examining our performance I'll point several factors which contributed to our revenue growth.
The biggest driver was our performance in United States which was extremely strong with organic revenue growth of 8.8%.
This growth was fueled by our media operations including continuing strong results in search social and programmatic trading.
U.K.
also continue to perform well with mid-single digit growth driven by strong performances in media and public relations.
In other parts of Europe Germany was positive for the third straight quarter while France continue to be negative.
And in the larger developing countries such as Brazil India and Russia we experienced strong double-digit growth.
Our agencies also performed well in China with high-single digit growth.
Our margins were up nominally due to several factors which Randy will address in his remarks.
But overall I'm very pleased with our operating and financial performance as we go into the second half of the year.
Let me now provide you an update on the progress we're making against our core strategies to drive growth.
These strategies share a goal of helping us meet the rapidly changing needs of our clients by giving them access to the best people and the latest technologies where and when they need it.
They are the same as you've heard before.
Attracting retaining and developing top talent; expanding our global footprint and moving into new service areas; building our digital and analytical capabilities by investing in agencies and partnering with innovative technology companies; and delivering big ideas based upon meaningful consumer insights across all marketing communication channels.
Our progress is really a reflection of the caliber and contributions of the talented people and that showed itself again this year in Cannes.
Omnicom won more Grand Prix and Gold Lions combined than any other holding company.
Let me mention just a few of the highlights from this year's festival.
Adam&amp;Eve DDB in the U.K.
was named Agency of the Year winning a total of 22 awards including four Grand Prix Lions.
Our media networks OMD and PHD dominated the Media Lions Category with 16 Lions.
BBDO and DDB were among the top-three networks for the eighth consecutive year.
And as a testament to the diversity of our service offerings from our largest creative networks BBDO DDB and TBWA all won Grand Prix awards across multiple categories.
I want to congratulate all of our people and agencies for their outstanding work that made Cannes 2014 such an amazing showcase for our industry.
The premium on big creative ideas has never been greater but as I have said before an idea is brilliant only if brilliantly executed.
As I look at the talent in Omnicom I want to specifically mention several changes which have been announced in the past several weeks.
Troy Ruhanen has become the President and the CEO of TBWA succeeding Tom Carroll who continues to serve as Chairman.
This move demonstrates our emphasis on well thought out long-term succession planning.
Troy was identified as a potential network leader some time ago and Tom Carroll and I decided together that when it came time Troy would be the right leader for TBWA.
His experience in leading Omnicom agencies across geographies disciplines and categories makes this a seamless transition that will further enhance TBWA's capabilities and reputation.
Troy has been with Omnicom for over 10 years and is now one of five network heads with long tenures.
Troy's prior role at the holding company will be assumed by Peter Sherman who recently rejoined Omnicom from J.
Walter Thompson.
Peter will be working to ensure we are driving agency collaboration and innovation for our largest clients.
And in terms of our ability to attract talents from the outside last quarter we also filled two very important and strategic positions.
Alexei Orlov joined as CEO of RAPP and Emma Sergeant joined as President of DAS Europe industry veterans with significant agency and client experience.
Having experienced network and agency leaders who know each other well is increasingly important because collaboration has become the new normal.
The lines between disciplines have been blurred.
Clients more and more want integrated solutions.
Turning now to our progress on expanding our capabilities.
We made an important acquisition last quarter the TBWA Worldwide acquiring Heimat which is a leading independent advertising agency in Germany.
Heimat will merge with TBWA's existing operations in that market.
Also in Europe RAPP announced its acquisition of Haygarth a.
U.K.
based brand and retail agency.
This is a smart transaction that will combine Haygarth's expertise in digital shopper marketing with RAPP's globally focused data insight and technology expertise.
Yesterday Omnicom's DAS Group announced the acquisition of an interest in In Press a leading PR company in Brazil.
In Press has been an affiliate of Porter Novelli's network since 1999.
As you know Brazil is a key market for both our clients and our businesses and formalizing this partnership will provide opportunities for growth in years ahead.
In addition to these acquisitions we continue to make internal investments in our networks agencies and platforms.
On the topic of digital strategies I will remind you of what I said in our last call about the way Omnicom breaks down the broad category of digital.
First we've always believed that anything that can be digital will be and that means pretty much everything we do.
We have long encouraged and helped our agencies to invest in digital skill sets and talent and they all have.
Whether in brand advertising shopper marketing PR or any of our disciplines all of our agencies have developed and hired talent to embed digital capabilities in our core offerings.
Second is an area of data and analytics.
New platforms that enable market as to identify and reach the right people at the right time in the right place and even when they are in the right frame of mind.
For us that's analytic with more than 1 200 professionals in 45 markets.
Analytic is the resource for all Omnicom companies.
Third is an area of technology-driven marketing such as e-commerce and m-commerce where firms like the Lloyd IBM Wipro and agencies like Sapient compete.
We have some capabilities in this area and we see it as a potential opportunity for further growth.
Looking at analytic we distinguish its capabilities by forming global relationships with major technology and media companies rather than making bets on specific platforms.
And we continue to be the first movers in employing the latest media technology data and e-commerce tools through more than a 100 partnership agreements where we are levering on behalf of our agencies.
Last quarter Omnicom signed a first of its kind agreement with Twitter.
There are at least three important features with this agreement.
First it gives first look to Omnicom's creative teams a format being developed by Twitter.
Second it provides design and strategic collaborations from Twitter for all of Omnicom's agencies.
And finally it integrates Twitter's recently acquired mobile ad exchange MoPub with Accuen.
I mentioned at the beginning of the call that one of the main drivers of Omnicom's second quarter performance was our media operations which includes search social and programmatic trading.
For Omnicom those capabilities are captured within Annalect.
Over the last three-and-a-half years Annalect has produced game-changing tools in the area of analytics and built one of the industry's larger data management platforms.
They have also assembled a talented team of data scientist from other industry fields.
Some of these analysts are now being deployed within our advertising network so it's BBDO working directly with our account teams and clients.
And to further deliver on this front Annalect recently hired a Chief Analytics Officer who will expand our data science practice across Omnicom.
Before handing the call over to Randy I'll close it by saying it was a solid quarter for Omnicom on all fronts.
We posted the strongest organic growth we have had in quite a while and we're on track to meet or 2014 revenue and margin target.
Our buybacks have been resumed and we've increased our dividend.
I said recently that Omnicom is strong innovative energized and ready for the future and that is certainly the way we feel this morning based upon our second quarter results.
I want to thank all the people at Omnicom; our many stakeholders who have supported us along the way; and our very very important and supportive clients.
And with that I'll turn this over to Randy and then he and I will be available for questions after.
Thank you.
Thank you.
As John pointed out in his comments our agencies have done a great job and are on a good track.
Over the course of the last year they've remained laser focused on serving the need to their clients and they've continued to make excellent progress against both their strategic and operational objectives.
And as you can see they've again delivered excellent financial results.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $3.87 billion up 6.4%.
The year-over-year increase was driven primarily by very strong organic growth of 5.8%.
And for the first time in 10 quarters FX was positive at least from a revenue perspective.
I'll go into more detail on our revenue growth in a few minutes.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
First I want to point out that we've now fully recognized all of the expenses related to the terminated merger.
During the quarter the pre-tax cost which were predominantly professional fees totaled $1.8 million.
For the six months the total is about $8.8 million.
In addition for tax purposes after the termination we were able to deduct any previously capitalized cost associated with the merger.
As a result this quarter we realized an $11 million tax benefit.
The net EPS benefit this quarter was about $0.03 per share and for the six months it's about $0.01.
Because these numbers are not significant and they're behind us we've eliminated the non-GAAP presentation we've shown for the past few quarters.
Back to the P&amp;L.
EBITDA increased 4.7% to $574 million in the quarter and resulting EBITDA margin was 14.8% down about 25 basis points from last year.
The decline in margins was due primarily to three things.
First although FX this quarter was positive for revenue it had about a 10 basis point negative impact on operating margins.
In several of our larger higher-margin markets primarily Australia Brazil Canada and Russia FX was very negative and negatively impacted our margins.
Also in the U.K.
where we have much of our European corporate infrastructure while FX was positive to revenue it also inflated those corporate costs again hurting our margins.
In addition to FX our margins were hurt to some extent by our mix of business in the quarter.
And finally as I mentioned earlier we had approximately $1.8 million of cost related to the merger in the quarter.
When we analyzed our businesses unit-by-unit in their local currencies in aggregate operating margins showed modest improvement year-on-year.
Operating income or EBIT performed similarly.
It was up about 4.9% for the quarter to $548 million and our EBIT margin was down by 20 basis points.
Turning to Page 2 and looking at the items below operating income.
First net interest expense for the quarter was $33.7 million down $7 million year-over-year and down $5.3 million from the first quarter.
The decrease in net interest expense is primarily related to the benefits we are realizing from the fixed to floating interest rates swaps we entered into related to our 2022 senior notes which we executed early in the second quarter.
We had gotten to the point where virtually all of our debt structure was fixed rate.
With this change we're now about 25% floating rate and we are evaluating moving closer to a 50-50 structure by yearend.
Our quarterly reported tax rate of 31.1% reflects the impact of approximately an $11 million tax benefit we recognized in the quarter related to the previously incurred merger expenses which will require to be capitalized for tax purposes prior to the termination of the merger.
Our underlying operating tax rate continues to be about 33.2%.
And while we're always looking for ways to improve the efficiency of our tax structure given where we are currently we expect our operating tax rate for the year to stay around 33.1% or 33.2%.
Earnings from our affiliates increased $1.1 million in the quarter to $4 million and the allocations of earnings to the minority shareholders in our less-than-fully-owned subsidiaries also increased $1.1 million to $33.2 million.
As a result net income increased 12.3% to $325 million.
On Slide 3 we show the allocation of net income to participating securities which are the unvested restricted shares held by our employees.
The remaining net income available for common shareholders increased 13.2% for the quarter to $319 million.
This chart also shows our diluted share count.
As you know we restarted our share buyback program in mid-May.
In the quarter we bought back about 7.9 million shares net.
But since we didn't start buying until midway through the quarter the share buyback is not yet fully reflected in the weighted average share count.
As a result the share count for the quarter is down only marginally year-over-year.
Given our overall strong performance in the quarter and the $0.03 per share benefit I mentioned earlier EPS increased about 13% to a $1.33.
On Slides 4 5 and 6 we present the P&amp;L information for the six months to date.
To save some time I'll just give a few highlights.
On Page 4 revenue was up about 4.8% driven predominantly by organic growth.
EBITA increased about 4% to $981 million and our EBITA margin was 13.3% down about 10 basis points.
Included in EBIT is about $8.8 million of merger related costs which brought margins down about 10 basis points and FX negatively impacted margins by another 10 basis points.
The underlying operating margin year-over-year was actually up about 10 basis points.
On Page 5 net interest expense for the six months is down $9 million primarily due to the interest rate swaps we completed in Q2 as well as good cash performance.
The reported tax rate was 32.2% brought down by the $11 million tax benefit I mentioned.
And equity and affiliate income was down $1.5 million and the minority interest allocation was up $4 million.
This all resulted in net income increasing 7.3% to $531 million.
On Page 6 you can see the weighted average share count is flat and EPS increased 8% to $2 per share.
On Slide 7 we start reviewing our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX.
While overall it was positive it was very mixed.
On a year-over-year basis the dollar weakened against both the euro and U.K.
pound however it strengthened against the currencies in a number of our other significant markets including Australia Brazil Canada India Russia and South Africa.
The net result increased our revenue for the quarter by $26 million or about seventh-tenth of a percent.
Looking ahead if FX rates stay where they are currently we expect FX to be positive to revenue by about a 125 basis points in Q3 and by about 26 basis points in Q4.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions decreased revenue by $5 million.
Fortunately we've now cycled through the Q2 2013 sale of a recruitment marketing business.
And with the transactions that we've completed through June 30 we currently expect acquisitions net of dispositions to add about 50 basis points to our revenue in both the third and fourth quarters.
And most importantly organic revenue growth was positive $213 million or 5.8% this quarter.
It was a strong quarter with positive growth across each of our disciplines and most of our major markets with the exceptions being France and Canada.
The primary drivers of our growth this quarter included excellent performance across our immediate business driven by both new business wins and the continuing development of new media.
Also our agencies in the emerging markets continue to perform very well.
This quarter we had excellent performance in Brazil China Columbia India Malaysia and Russia.
And we continue to see very modest recovery in Europe.
Slide 8 covers the year-to-date results which are basically in line with the quarter.
Slide 9 shows our mix of business for the quarter which again was split about evenly between advertising and marketing services.
As for their respective growth rates brand advertising was up 10.5% driven as I mentioned by the excellent performance of our media businesses and marketing services was up 1.5%.
Within marketing services CRM was up 1.1% with mixed results across businesses mostly driven by individual agency performance.
Public relations was up a very solid 4.1% and specialty communications was up about 20 basis points.
However the underlying performance looks generally good.
We're just up against the difficult comp number from last year in our healthcare businesses which had growth of almost 10%.
Flipping to Slides 10 and 11 we present our regional mix of business.
During the quarter the split was 57% for North America 29% Europe 10% Asia-Pacific with the remaining business split between Latin America and Africa and the Middle East.
Turning to the details on Slide 11.
In North America we had organic revenue growth of 7.9% driven this quarter by the performance of our media and PR businesses.
Our other major regions all had positive organic growth as well.
Europe was up 2.1% led by continuing strong performance in the U.K.
and Russia.
Solid performance in Germany Ireland Portugal Spain and Sweden and as I mentioned France continued to struggle.
Asia-Pac was up 5.1%.
We had strong performances across most of the region with Australia China India Malaysia and South Korea leading the way.
Latin America was up 7.8% again led by strong double-digit performance in both Brazil and Columbia.
And Africa and the Middle East was up 2%.
On Slide 12 we present our mix of business by industry sector.
Keep it in mind these are year-to-date figures and are total growth not just organic growth.
As you can see the larger changes year-over-year were in our retail telecom and other industries group.
The retail sector increased on the strength of new business wins over the past few quarters.
And within other we've benefited from both new business wins as well as increased spending from our services multi-industry conglomerate and government clients.
Turning to our cash flow performance on Slide 13.
First of all it was a pretty good quarter.
We generated almost $760 million of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital during the first six months of the year.
As for our primary uses of cash on Slide 14 dividends paid to our common shareholders was $212 million.
This was up significantly from last year when we paid our normal Q1 dividend in the fourth quarter of 2012 and it reflects the recent increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.50 a share.
Dividends paid to our non-controlling interest shareholders increased with performance and FX changes to $66.5 million.
Capital expenditures of $92 million was up about $23 million from the same period last year.
The increase is a combination of timing differences and a couple of larger office relocations during the period.
Acquisitions including earnout payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $105 million.
And finally stock repurchases net of the proceeds we received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $554 million.
As I mentioned earlier we restarted our share program in mid-May and have so far purchased about 7.9 million shares net.
As a result of all of that we outspent our free cash flow by about $270 million for the six months.
Turning to Slide 15 focusing first on our capital structure.
As of June 30 it remains effectively unchanged compared to last year.
But as you may be aware in June we called our convertible notes for redemption at the end of July.
Our net-net position at the end of the quarter was $2.5 billion an improvement of about $120 million from last year.
Our total debt to EBITDA ratio at the end of June stands at 1.9x and our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.2x.
And due to both the decrease in our interest expense and the increase in EBITDA our interest coverage ratio improved to 11.2x.
On Slide 16 you can see we again delivered excellent returns on both total invested capital and common equity.
While both return figures were impacted by the suspension of our share repurchase program over the last year we remained very strong with return on invested capital of 16.9% and return on equity of 31.5%.
And finally on Slide 17 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders since 2004.
The line on the top of the chart shows our cumulative net income from fiscal 2004 through June 30 of this year.
That totaled $9.4 billion.
And the bar show the cumulative return of cash to shareholders including both dividends and the net share repurchases the sum of which during that same period totaled $10.1 billion for cumulative payout ratio of just over 107%.
And now that concludes our prepared remarks.
There are a number of other supplemental slides included in the presentation materials for your review but at this point we're going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question today comes from the line of David Bank representing RBC Capital Markets.
There are two quick ones.
First I think in the very beginning of your commentary you had said that you felt like you were on track for your full year revenue growth and margin targets.
Could you remind us of what it is you're on track for? And then the second question is kind of more big picture as you look across the landscape now especially having a hard time to contemplate I think the contrast in business mix with you guys in Publicis but if you look more broadly to all of your competition how would you say your business mix differs from other major players in the landscape? And how does that impacts margin performance both sort of near-term and longer-term.
I think we started the year telling people that we expected organic growth to be in the 4% to 4.5% range for the full year.
We do think it bounced around a little bit.
And we said flat to up 10 basis points in margins I think right now we certainly think from an operations or efficiency standpoint that our companies are making all the right moves and the underlying operating performance is there.
The FX headwind is tougher than we expected starting the year.
So if you wait a week FX will change which way it changes I am not sure but if it stays where it's at flat margins will be probably the better end of what we can achieve given that FX impact.
We also had $8.8 million in these numbers of merger expenses going through that isn't something that we were contemplating we were saying flat to up 10 basis points of margins either.
Your second question was mix.
Every one has got a little bit of obviously different mix.
It's hard to know exactly what the revenues or margins from each of the different businesses people have are.
Certainly WPP has a fairly large research business that I don't think any of us has of that type or magnitude.
They have a large media business.
Publicis has a large media business.
We have a large media business but on a relative scale that would be a smaller percentage of our business than say it would be for Publicis not a 100% sure from a WPP standpoint.
We think it would be a bigger percentage.
We have I think much larger field marketing and marketing services businesses things in the area of branding field marketing events promotions those sorts of things.
I'm not sure from an IPG standpoint the relative size of those businesses and its mix.
I know ours is quite a bit larger than Publicis or WPPs.
Everyone talks about digital we tend not to.
We don't actually think digital is a so called business.
Digital was a medium or a technology that we want every one of our businesses irrespective of their underlying discipline to be utilized and to figure out how to provide a better service to their clients and to grow their revenues.
That that probably covers it I think.
And anything about the near-term business mix that would make sort of margin performance different from the peer group or those all sort of more broader bigger picture longer-term issues or you know contrasts? Well business mix can move your margins around a little bit.
It affected us a little bit this quarter.
It all depends on which business is doing well.
I'd say one of the reasons that I have told people that we're focused more on margin dollars than margin percentages if we have a company that comes in that can win a client win the next $100 million piece of business that's going to generate $6 million or $7 million of operating income if it doesn't require capital that's something that we wouldn't say don't do it.
We think that would be very positive for shareholders very positive for our business overall.
If we were focused only on margins that would be a piece of business that would be dilutive to our reported margins and the natural outcome of that would be to not pursue that business even though it's economically very accretive to shareholders.
So that's not been our focus.
We want each of our businesses to be as efficient as possible and to grow their businesses economically for all of our shareholders.
Our next question today comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Just a couple of questions.
My first question is on the impressive organic revenue growth you guys saw in the quarter.
I know you gave a lot of detail what was behind it and I appreciate that.
But if you were to pinpoint I guess what was the delta this quarter to give it the best quarter you've seen in several years as you highlighted it I guess what was different this quarter? I'd say a few things and John can comment too if he wants later.
First is less negatives.
So most of our businesses did fairly well so we didn't have a lot of I'll say headwinds in any one spot.
So that's always a plus.
Our media businesses did very well.
A lot of that is some new business wins that happened last year in the third and the fourth quarter and some this year in the first quarter.
So that rolling through was very helpful.
Our Accuen is doing well.
That was up I think $30 million or $40 million year-over-year.
So that's a business that it's kind of I'll say a new-ish business.
It's been around I guess for a couple of years but is starting to have more attraction as is everyone's and ours is doing quite well.
We think our technology is very good and industry-leading.
Just a follow-up question then on Europe.
You've seen some better performance in Continental Europe.
Maybe France continues to be real negative I think its sorts of an industry-wide issue.
I guess how much are you dependent on that stabilizing or can you continue to see better performance or some signs of recovery further signs of recovery in Europe with the trends still staying weak? This is John Alexia.
I think Europe we're pleased that it's stable to flat from what we see right now.
We're not expecting any grand move from there.
There is no one country that's going to lead all to us one country that's going to lead Europe out of this current malaise that it's in in reverse we don't see anything backing up beyond what we've already seen.
And critical is individual agency performance.
Agency even in a difficult market goes out wins a few clients comes up with innovative ideas for their clients and they're going to be able to drive their topline revenue.
So that we can't loose track of that obviously economic headwinds make it more difficult but the individual agencies need to perform.
And fortunately ours has been doing a pretty good job.
Our next question today comes from the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
I have two questions.
I guess my first one is that appreciate the new revenue regional breakdown you guys gave.
I was just wondering when will you be making available perhaps back to sort of beginning of last year on quarterly basis of those breakdowns just so we can all update our models for that? Will there be an 8-K going up soon on that? I wasn't planning on it.
Let me try to pull the numbers together and see what we can do.
It would just be very helpful I think for everybody.
I've had a number of questions this morning from analyst out there.
Okay.
And then also just you've mentioned what the net share buyback was in the quarter.
Just wondering what was the gross amount of shares that you guys bought back in the quarter please? 8 031 000 plus I think there was 147 000 shares that we effectively bought if I am reading this right for the exercise for -- basically with holding taxes on the exercise of restricted stock.
So it's effectively bought in.
They weren't open market purchases really.
And then also just talk on the revenue breakdown.
You mentioned U.K.
was up I guess mid-single digits organically.
What was the euro on the old basis if you have it the euro-denominated markets just so we can compare to what people were estimating in the quarter? I don't have it sorry.
And then lastly John if I could ask you you mentioned a bunch of internal investments that you guys were doing here which is ongoing theme with Omnicom for many years obviously.
Is there anything you'd want to highlight that you're doing differently here on the internal investments that you can talk with us about please? Well we're following very much the patterns and making similar investments as we've made for at least the last eight 10 quarters.
We spend a lot of money on education development of our people and that spread throughout the globe now in a fairly consistent basis.
There is a lot of investing that's going on in Annalect and all the associated digital capabilities that we're increasingly able to do.
And I see that is something we will only continue and increase as time goes past because we're spreading those tools and that capability into the creative departments of our various agencies at this point.
In another way worth mention is the eg+ platform.
Production and digital.
That will be -- it is off to a great start.
It will be I predict a fairly high growth area over the next several years.
Our next question today comes from the line of Julien Roch representing Barclays.
The first one is on revenue.
WPP has moved from reporting all telling us to focus on revenue to gross margin because of the proprietary revenue they're taking on with Xaxis.
And this morning Publicis said there was $17 million to $18 million of principle revenue in their numbers.
I was wondering whether there is some of that in your revenue if we could get a number or if it is actually zero.
That's my first question.
The second question on the very good Q2 organic I know you said it was due to individual agency performance to your focus on technology but Publicis had a pretty dire quarter.
And when you look at what Interpublic has reported what WPP and Accuen are supposed to report clearly everybody is taking market share from Publicis this quarter.
So do you feel there's a bit of your revenue lines coming from that is my second question? And then the third question is on share buyback.
Historically you're doing all of your cash flow in buybacks and dividend.
You have other spend last quarter to catch up the pools due to the merger.
So could we get a sense of -- I mean what quarters will you have spend and kind of the run rate of buyback for the coming quarters? Let me take a shot at that.
Sure.
Go ahead.
So first of all we obviously all report in accordance with GAAP or IFRS.
I think they are reasonably consistent on the points.
So if we end up taking principal position basically buy an asset that we're reselling to a client we'll need to take it on a principle basis.
I don't fully understand everyone else's business.
I did hear what WPP said.
I have not yet heard what Publicis said.
The WPP numbers for Xaxis again I don't fully understand everything that's there.
I think our business that's like that as Accuen and as I mentioned in my comments Accuen is doing very well year-over-year growth was about $40 million for us.
How much of that you'd attribute to in services or just the media cost because the way it makes its money is it buys media and sells it.
So it's obviously its service intact is embedded in that number but that year-over-year growth number is about $40 million for us.
I am probably skipping questions too because I don't remember exactly what it was.
But I remember the share buyback question.
What we told people coming out in I guess mid-May is that we were going to resume our share buyback.
We wanted to refocus that our first priority is to pay a solid dividend.
We've been increasing our dividend fairly substantially over the last several years we did it again.
We're up to just shy of probably $500 million a year of dividends.
We want to make all of the acquisitions that we can that are accretive for our shareholders that are on strategy for Omnicom to build our business for the long-term.
And then the balance we're going to balance out our capital structure with share buybacks.
We had accumulated quite a bit of cash during the period that we were not buying in stock.
So we estimated that we buy about 1.25 billion of shares by the end of the first quarter of 2015.
So we have made a lot of progress towards that this quarter with $550 million or so.
We didn't say the specific timing of how fast we would do that we'll obviously keep track of it and stay focused on our overall business.
Second question had to do specifically with Publicis.
And plus we've won a lot of business this past quarter I don't believe Publicis is where we have gotten it from.
I think our wins really have come from Interpublic and from WPP and that's where the growth and expansion has come out of.
Some of it hasn't been announced yet either.
It will get announced shortly but that's principally where it's been.
Again just if you can refer upon Accuen and thank you very much for giving the $40 million figure.
But you had said everybody is doing it differently.
And you said you don't fully understand what exactly it's been doing.
So on this business the $40 million of revenue is something you take and then you buy and sell to clients.
So I assume that you make no margin on that $40 million or you just make the normal margin on what would have been the all commission so say 5% of $40 million and then a $0.15 margin on that.
So is that correct? No the business is a little bit different than that.
We're taking ownership of media.
We're placing a principal -- I want to say bet but principal bet.
We are buying specific media and we are reselling that at a hopefully an increased price in most circumstances since the profit that we make our revenue or our return is going to be based upon the difference between that purchase price of media and the sale price of media.
Well we then have to provide all of the services all of the underlying technology build the platforms do the insights and take the risk.
So it's a little bit of a different business model than straight agency-type model.
And again I think everyone is accounting for that is probably pretty similar.
I don't know if there is a difference in IFRS and GAAP.
The size of people's businesses or how they specifically trade that that's business-by-business.
I think there are some pretty vast differences.
They are small numbers first of all at this point but there is some vast differences in the way.
I think WPP approaches it versus us.
In our case it's an opt-in it's not all of our clients it's only the clients that choose to participate in it.
I even think one of our competitors has an independent sales force and is going out and trying to resell inventory that it might own to non-clients other agencies in some cases.
So at this point it's early days this business isn't fully developed and we're just reporting what we did.
So I don't know that you can draw a straight line and compare all the groups at this moment.
And we have a question from the line of William Bird with FBR.
John you talked a bit about some of your businesses that are seeing high client demand like Accuen.
I was wondering if you could talk about maybe some of the other services that are currently in greatest demand particularly by those clients that tend to lead the ad market? And then Randy I was wondering if you could just talk about salary trends the negative leverage in the quarter and what you expect going forward? Well the clearest businesses in terms of media growth that we have are the media and media-related activities and that's because of the complexity of the marketplace and the changing channels.
I see that only increasing in the near-term as share of budgets and clients goes to video display versus where it's being spent now which is a more traditional TV in some cases.
So in the near-term there'll be greater media growth there.
Also the other trend is clients as evidenced in Nissan United are looking for increasing help in us taking responsibility for simplifying a complex marketplace in order for them to achieve their goals and objectives.
And so there are shifts going on within the business realignment of some of the activities some of the ways we approach and we administer activities.
So those are the two principles for us at the moment.
And then the healthcare industry separately as an industry has been very active.
Your negative leverage question.
We didn't have negative leverage in the quarter.
Obviously on an aggregated basis the margins were down.
I went through this.
Three primary drivers to that; first was FX; second was the merger cost that we went through; and then third was mix.
The statement I made is that if we actually go agency-by-agency so we basically like-to-like in the common currency margins were up a little bit not a significant amount but 4 basis points or 5 basis points at least.
So from a salary leverage standpoint we did not have negative salary leverage in the quarter.
Next we'll go to line of James Dix with Wedbush Securities.
Just one question honestly and following up a little bit on what you called out John.
I mean I assume if you looked at your clients and you looked at their medium mix over time it's been shifting to be a little bit more towards setting large digital platforms in a way from setting the traditional ones.
Are you seeing any change in the rate of that trend if you look at that medium mix in particular for search social and programmatic that those channels which you called out? And if you're seeing a change in trend there do you think that's having any impact on the spending that's going to your media agencies who you've called out is having particularly strong growth? The answer is I believe it is.
Can I pinpoint it or predict it with any grand accuracy no.
In speaking to my media leadership they believe more and more the shift is now permanent and it's only going to increase as we're able to measure and increasingly measure results.
And there is a lot of chatter in clients in terms of a desire to spend more money in this area.
But we haven't seen a wholesale move.
You know what we've seen is the same trend that has been developing for the past several years just continuing.
But everybody is working in it every single day.
There is going to be an increasing shift.
I don't know if that's helpful but truly what we see at the moment.
And you specifically previously called out the visual video display versus traditional TV.
I mean is that part of the shift that you think is -- Yes that's going on.
Facebook is getting a lot smarter.
Every one of the key players getting more competitive offering different ways to do things which are proving to be effective.
And I guess my second part of the question is just do you think that's having an impact on the spending that's going to your media agencies on the fees or other types of revenue streams you're getting there? I mean the amount of work that goes into some of these I'll say newer mediums is a greater amount of labor.
Our agencies are generally getting paid for insights and creativity.
The less of the executions they're doing is much broader because of all these different mediums.
The complexity of these new mediums is higher.
So the labor required and the insights required is more.
We're kind of at a stage that I think people need to be careful about on a longer-term basis.
These are new mediums that are finding their spot in the world as a very useful medium.
The old mediums the traditional mediums are also very useful for their right spot.
So the breadth of opportunity is increasing but I'm not sure anything is getting eliminated.
They're just being utilized differently.
So inevitably with anything new you're going to see a very rapid growth period once people find out it's appropriate use but then it should level off at some point in time whether that's a year from now or five years from now or 10 years from now.
It's impossible to say because frankly new valuable uses of each of these new mediums is coming along everyday as smart people with great creative ideas and insights figure out more and more ways to utilize it.
And thank you everyone for taking the time to listen to our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Omnicom Group Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we’ll conduct a question and answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to now introduce you to the host for today’s conference call Shub Mukherjee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our third quarter 2014 earnings call.
On the call with me today is John Wren President and Chief Executive Officer and Phil Angelastro Chief Financial Officer.
We hope everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release we posted on the Omnicomgroup.com website both our press release and the presentation covering the information that we will be reviewing this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I have been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that we have included at the end of our Investor Presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and that actual events or results may differ materially.
I would also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom’s performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation material.
We’re going to begin this morning’s call with an overview of our business from John Wren.
Then Phil Angelastro will reveal our financial performance.
And then John and Phil will be happy to take questions.
Thank you Sue good morning.
Before I get started I want you to welcome Phil to the call as Omnicom’s new Chief Financial Officer.
In the last week’s many of you have had a chance to speak or even meet with Phil.
He’s been a key member of our executive management team for over 15 years and has worked closely with Randy and me on our quarterly calls and our key financial and operational strategies.
At Omnicom we place a considerable emphasis on succession management planning.
For several years Phil had been designated as Randy’s successor as CFO.
Our board of directors our senior managing team and I are confident this will be a seamless transition for Phil and I’m pleased to have him by my side.
Before getting to the quarter let me emphasize that Omnicom’s operational and financial strategies remain unchanged.
Turning to the quarter we delivered good results with organic growth up 6.5% over the same quarter last year.
Our growth was driven by new business wins in late 2013 and earlier this year as well as strong performance in some of our core strategic growth areas which I’ll touch upon in a few minutes.
Year-to-date our organic growth rate is 5.6% so we are on track to exceed our target for the full year.
On the margin front we had a slight decrease year-over-year of one-tenth of 1%.
In absolute dollars that difference to flat margins was insignificant less than $4 million and the result of several factors.
Phil will provide more color on the margins in his remarks.
At this point we remain committed to maintaining flat margins year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
Even in the face of ongoing challenges in the macroeconomic environment and increased volatility in currencies.
Turning to our cash flow we remain committed to our longstanding capital allocation strategy using our strong cash flow generation to first pay dividends.
Second to make acquisitions that are accretive to our shareholders and lastly employing the remaining cash to repurchase shares.
As you recall in May we increased our quarterly dividend by 25%.
Since 2010 we have increased our quarterly dividend from $0.20 a share to $0.50 a share.
On the acquisition front during the quarter we acquired The Planning Shop International a research based consultancy focused on the healthcare Industry and chosen a full service agency with shopper marketing and promotional capabilities in Turkey.
And since we resumed our repurchase program in mid-May we’ve purchased approximately 11.7 million shares totaling $830 million.
Our repurchase program will continue in the fourth quarter and for 2015.
We continue to be committed to our key strategic and initiatives which as you know are attracting retaining and developing top talent.
Expanding our global footprint and moving into new service areas building our digital data and analytical capabilities by investing in our agencies and partnering with innovative technology companies.
And delivering big ideas based upon meaningful consumer insights across all marketing communication channels.
Let me now provide some more detail on our revenue.
As I said total organic growth for the quarter was 6.5% our results were broadly positive across disciplines and geographies with our media business performing very well.
About 1.5 % of our total organic growth is due to our programmatic line business which is included in our media operations.
Recently there’s been a great deal written about programmatic buying and there is a lot of client and investor interest in this area.
To put it in perspective we expect for the full year 2014 programmatic buying will be less than 2% of Omnicom’s revenue.
So while this area is relatively new and presents good opportunity for growth and we are very comfortable with our position and investments it is still small today.
Looking at revenue by geography North America’s growth was 8.9% which was driven by continuing strong performance in brand advertising and specifically our media business as well in PR.
In Europe organic growth was 2.6% with broadly positive result across the region.
The UK was relatively strong continental Europe was mixed with the Euro markets slightly negative overall and the non-Euro markets performing quite well in the quarter.
At this stage we’re not seeing any significant effect to do the geo-political risk in Eastern Europe but given the macroeconomic environment we remain cautious about the region generally.
In Asia growth was 4.4% China and India experienced double-digit increases and Australia also performed well.
And in Latin America Brazil had high single-digit growth although results were way down by individual agency performance in some of the smaller markets in the region.
Overall I’m pleased with the performance of our agencies during the quarter and through the first nine months of the year.
Our management teams continue to be focused on executing for our clients winning new business and remaining diligent in controlling their costs.
I’d like to now take some time to discuss our data and analytic strategy in more detail.
It was a notable quarter for Omnicom in terms of partnerships with technology companies we signed.
We signed a new agreement with both Salesforce and Facebook these agreements are part of a multiyear effort that began when we founded Annalect our primary data and analytics product platform five years ago.
Data and the insights we gather from it provides a foundation that can be leveraged by all of our agencies.
Annalect is an Omnicom wide platform that is used by our media advertising PRM and PR companies.
Starting in 2009 Annalect began investing in a data managing platform or DMP to provide our agencies a common set of products to unify and analyze data.
Since that date we’ve invested tens of millions of dollars in the business and it now has over 15 000 people around the world.
Annalect’s products give us a competitive advantage both in measurement and in insights that can be leveraged across all of our businesses.
In conjunction with our already existing partnerships the recent Salesforce and Facebook agreements add more capabilities to our DMP.
Saleforce is first priority customer data will be a particular value to our CRM agencies as they use Annalect products.
The Facebook deal provides first party social media profile data linked for the first time to a specific consumer and across devices.
Securing first party data increases our ability to target consumers customize content and measure results.
All of which are increasingly important as advertiser ship for mass marketing to mass personal organization.
One of the primary businesses leveraging Annalect’s products is our programmatic buying operations.
This is a rapidly changing area and we are also evolving our businesses to ensure that we have the capability to service all of our clients.
As you know Accuen is our largest display mobile and online video programmatic buying unit.
It is a performance-based business which employs people data and technology to deliver precise audiences to advertisers.
As a result advertisers who opt in achieve their desired performance objectives and greater efficiencies at an all in price as compared to conventional digital media buyers.
We also offer programmatic buying services through our media agencies.
Our media agencies use the same underlying technology platforms to offer these services to their clients although the agency-based operations are a much smaller part of the programmatic revenues.
Programmatic is an important offering for our clients and for Omnicom due to the expected growth in mobile and online video.
Forrester Research recently projected that North American display spend was still a relatively small part of the overall ad market will almost double to $38 billion by 2019 driven by these areas.
Since the fourth quarter of 2013 due to improvements in audience data management right from our DMP and our rapid expansion in international markets we have been seeing a meaningful increase in demand from our clients for our programmatic buying services.
Today we offer these services in more than 30 markets around the world to more than a 1000 advertisers.
Overall we are extremely well positioned to capitalize on this opportunity because of our early and ongoing investments while Annalect provides a foundation for data and insights from Omnicom’s agencies it is the talent that these agencies and the collaboration across our companies that allow us to consistently deliver on our strategies.
I’ve spoken many times about the growing importance of collaboration and servicing our clients from providing seamless execution of big creative ideas across disciplines and geographies.
As one example of this you may have seen the campaign for SAP which was launched yesterday.
We won the accounts in July with multiple Omnicom agencies working together to create a simple powerful brand story for SAP.
Omnicom agencies also continue their tradition of being the most creatively awarded companies in the world which is a credit to the challenge that we have in place.
Let me just mention a few of the highlights from the Spikes advertising Festival which is considered the Cannes of Asia.
BBDO received the top honor winning network of the year with DDB placing second.
This is the second time in three years that BBDO was named network of the year at Spikes and Omnicom networks have finished in the top three networks for six consecutive years.
PHD won media network of the year with OMD placing second.
DDB’s group in New Zealand was runner up as agency of the year.
All total 40 agencies in 12 countries contributed to Omnicom’s performance at this year’s Spikes.
I want to congratulate all of our people and agencies for their award winning work on behalf of our clients in this very important Asia-Pacific region.
Our investments in talent technology and partnerships are making a difference for Omnicom and our agencies they are critical to our success.
We will continue to strategically invest in these growth areas as the marketing environment becomes increasingly complex.
Before handing the call over to Phil I once again want to thank the people of our agencies for the world class integrated campaigns outstanding new business wins and all the great work that has enabled us to continue to deliver strong results for Omnicom our clients and our shareholders.
Thank you John and good morning.
As John said I’ve worked closely with him and Randy and the rest of Omnicom senior management team for a long time.
And although this is my first earnings call as CFO I’ve been a part of more than 60 of these calls in my prior role as Controller.
I want to start by thanking Randy for all of his guidance and support over the years.
I will certainly benefit from it in my new role and it had helped to prepare me for the transition.
I’ve met many of our stakeholders over the last month.
And I look forward to meeting more of you over the next several weeks and months.
And now we’ll focus on our results for the quarter.
As John said we are very pleased with the performance of our operating companies.
They have continued to deliver against their operating and strategic objectives while maintaining their focus on meeting the needs of their clients.
Their continued excellent performance has also helped make this an easier transition for me.
As a result of the excellent performance of our agencies revenue for the quarter came in at $3.75 billion up 7.4%.
Year-over-year increase was driven by continued strong organic growth of 6.5% with small contributions to our growth in the quarter also coming from net acquisitions and FX net.
We’ll review our revenue growth in further detail in a few minutes.
A quick note before we review our operating income and the rest of our results.
As a reminder we terminated our proposed merger with Publicis in the second quarter of this year.
In the third quarter of ‘13 we incurred $28.1 million of cost related to the transaction.
These costs are included in our reported GAAP results for 2013.
In reviewing our performance for the quarter my comments will compare the current quarter to last year’s Q3 results excluding the impact of the merger related expenses which you can find in the supplemental non-GAAP information on slides 19 through 25.
Our EBITDA for the quarter increased to $461 million from $433 million an increase of 6.3% compared to Q3 last year.
The resulting EBITDA margin for the quarter was 12.3% down about 10 basis points versus Q3 last year.
The slight decline can be attributed to FX impacts and business mix.
Keep in mind that a 10 basis point decline is less than $4 million.
Although FX this quarter had a slightly net positive impact on revenue the increase was largely driven by the strengthening of the British pound against the dollar compared to the third quarter of 2013.
Almost all other major currencies weakened against the dollar this quarter.
And in some of our higher margin markets mainly Russia and Canada where FX was negative in the quarter this also negatively impacted our margins.
In addition to the FX impact our margins were negatively impacted to some extent by our mix of business in the quarter.
From the bottom up this quarter as an offset to the items that negatively impacted our margins we had solid performance across the portfolio in our efforts to drive efficiencies throughout our organization and our agencies.
Operating income or EBIT performed similarly to EBITDA increasing $26 million or 6.4% to $434 million.
And as was the case with our EBITDA margin our operating margin of 11.6% was down about 10 basis points versus Q3 2013 due to the items I described earlier.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $31.4 million down $2.3 million from $33.7 million in the second quarter.
The decrease in net interest expense versus Q2 was primarily related to the full quarter impact of the fixed to floating interest rate swaps we entered into during the second quarter of this year related to our 2022 senior notes versus the last year net interest expense was down $11.4 million in the quarter due to the positive impact of the interest rate swaps plus benefits from our cash management efforts in the form of increased interest income earned by our international treasury centers.
Our quarterly tax rate of 33.4% is in line with our normal expectations while we are always looking for ways to improve the efficiency of our tax structure given where we are currently; we expect our operating tax rate for the year to continue to stay around 33.2%.
Earnings from our affiliates increased $1.5 million in the quarter to $5.8 million.
And the allocation of earnings to the minority shareholders and our less than fully owned subsidiaries increased to $1.1 million to $29.8 million.
As a result net income was $244 million that’s an increase of $26.1 million or 12% versus Q3 last year and an increase of 24% compared to the 2013 reported amount.
Remaining net income available for common shareholders for the quarter after the allocation of $4.3 million of net income to participating securities was $239.5 million an increase of 12.8% versus the third quarter last year.
You can also see that our diluted share count for the quarter was $252.4 million which is down 2.9% versus last year as a result for the resumption in the second quarter our share buyback program.
Given our overall strong performance in the quarter diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.95 an increase of $0.13 or 15.9% versus Q3 2013 are up $0.21 and 28.4% compared to the 2013 reported amount.
In the presentation we also provided the summary P&amp;L EPS and other information for the year-to-date period.
To save some time I’ll just give you a few highlights.
Revenue was up about 5.7% for the nine month driven predominantly by organic growth with FX and net positive an acquisitions are slight negative as we cycled on the disposition of our recruitment marketing business in Q2.
EBITDA increased 4.6% to $1.44 billion and our EBITDA margin was 13% year-to-date and similar to Q3 it was down about 10 basis points versus the last year.
Also included in the current year’s EBITDA amount there’s a reduction of about $8.8 million from merger related costs incurred earlier in the year.
Now moving back to the topline revenue performance on slide 7.
First with regard to FX Overall it was net positive it remains very mixed.
On a year-over-year basis the US dollar weakened significantly against the UK pound.
However on a year-over-year basis the US dollar also strengthened against most other currencies most notably Canada and Russia as well as Japan.
The net results increased our revenue for the quarter by $13 million or about four-tenths of a percent.
Looking ahead if FX rates stay where they are currently FX could be a negative to revenue by approximately 220 basis points in Q4 and it could also turn negative for the year by over 50 basis points.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $20 million as mentioned during last quarter’s call; we’ve now cycled through the Q2 2013 sale of our recruitment marketing business.
And our recent acquisitions in the UK Germany and Brazil are positively impacting revenue.
With the transactions that we have completed through September 30th we currently expect acquisitions net of dispositions to add about 60 basis points to revenue in the fourth quarter making the full year acquisition impact about flat.
Organic growth was positive $226 million or 6.5% this quarter.
It was a strong quarter with positive growth across most of our major markets with the exceptions being Canada Chile France Italy and the Netherlands.
The primary drivers of our growth this quarter included continuing excellent performance across our media businesses especially in the U.S.
this is being driven by both new business wins and the continuing development of new media offerings.
Also in addition to strong performance in the U.S.
our agencies in emerging markets continue to perform very well.
This quarter we had excellent performance in Brazil China India and Mexico as well as South Africa and the UAE.
While businesses in Russia are still performing well but the rate of growth slowed a little in Q3 relative to prior quarters.
And while remaining uneven by individual market we continue to see generally good performance in our businesses in the non-Euro markets in Europe including Poland Turkey and Sweden.
And flat to slightly down performance in our businesses in the Euro markets with the larger French market’s still struggling.
Slide 8 covers our year-to-date results which are basically in line with the quarter although net acquisition disposition revenue was marginally negative year-to-date.
Slide 9 shows our mix of business for the quarter which again is split about evenly between advertising and marketing services.
As for their respective organic growth rates brand advertising was up 12.5% primarily driven as I mentioned by the excellent performance of our worldwide media businesses.
And marketing services overall was up 1.1% within marketing services CRM was up 1% we experienced mixed results in our businesses in the discipline.
Our field marketing and sales promotion businesses had strong performances this quarter offset by weaker performances in some of our events and branding businesses in Europe.
Public relations was up 2.5% reflecting strength in the U.S.
and Germany.
And specialty communications was down about 10 basis points; however the underlying performance in the quarter remains good as we were up against difficult comp number from last year on our healthcare businesses which had year-over-year organic growth nearly 15% in the third quarter of 2013.
On slides 10 and 11 we present our regional mix of business during the quarter the split of 57% for North America 28% for Europe 11% for Asia-Pacific with the remainder split between Latin America and Africa and the Middle East.
Turning to the details on Slide 11 in North America we had organic growth of 8.9% again primarily driven this quarter by the performance of our media and PR businesses.
Our other major regions all continue to have positive organic growth as well.
Europe was up 2.2% led by continuing strong performance in the U.K.
and solid performance in our other non-Euro markets in Europe.
While France and Netherlands continued to struggle.
Asia-Pacific was up 4.4% with strong performances across most of the region with China and India leading the way with double-digit growth.
Australia also had a solid quarter and Japan had modest growth.
Latin America was up 2.5% led by Brazil and Mexico and offset by weakness in Chile related to a client specific spending reduction.
And Africa and the Middle East was up 18.1% as mentioned earlier or be it off a relatively low base led by a very strong quarter from our businesses in South Africa and the UAE.
On slide 12 we present our mix of business by industry sector keeping in mind these are the year-to-date figures the total growth not just organic growth.
The one item of note to mention the telecom sector is down primarily from the loss of Blackberry.
Turning to our cash flow performance on slide 13 we generated almost $1.125 billion of free cash flow including changes in working capital during the first nine months for the year.
As for our primary uses of cash on slide 14 dividends paid to our common shareholders were $341 million.
This was up significantly from the last year.
As a reminder in 2013 we only made three dividend payments because we paid our normal Q1 dividend in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Additionally this quarter’s dividend payment reflects the 25% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.50 per share that was approved by our board earlier this year.
Dividends paid to our non-controlling interest shareholders were $83 million capital expenditures of $138 million was up about $15 million from the same period last year in line with our expectations.
Acquisitions including earn-out payments net of proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $155 million.
And finally stock repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $830 million.
As I mentioned earlier we restarted our share repurchase program in mid-May and so far we have purchased about 11.7 million shares net.
As a result we outspent our free cash flow by about $422 million for the nine months.
Turning to Slide 15 focusing first on our capital structure as you may be aware in June we called our last convertible notes for redemption at the end of July.
As a result of the redemption our gross debt position decreased by about $240 million to $3.8 billion as of September 30th.
And our net debt position at the end of the quarter was $2.96 billion up about $440 million.
The increase on our net debt over the past year was driven in large part by the use of our cash to increase our share buybacks by $220 million.
Also to increase our dividend payments by $70 million as well as the negative impact of FX translation which was in excess of a $100 million.
Our ratios remain very strong at the end of September our total debt-to-EBITDA was 1.7 times and our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.3 times due to both a decrease in our interest expense and increase in EBITDA our interest coverage ratio improved to 12.0 time.
I should also mention that during the quarter we amended our bank credit facility.
Expanding the term of the facility to July 2019 from 2016 or the size of the facility remains unchanged at $2.5 billion.
Turning to slide 16 we continue to successfully build the company for a combination and prudently priced acquisitions and well-focused internal development initiatives.
For the last 12 months our turn-on invested capital increased to 17.2% return on equity increased to 33.7%.
And finally on slide 17 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders in 2004.
The line on the top of the chart shows our cumulative net income from fiscal 2004 to September 30th of this year which totaled $9.7 billion.
And the bar show cumulative return of cash to shareholders including both dividend and net share repurchases but some of which during the same period totaled $10.5 billion our cumulative payout ratio of 108%.
And that concludes our prepared remarks.
Please note that we’ve included a number of other supplemental slides in the presentation materials to be overviewed but at this point we’re going to ask operator to open the call for question.
Thank you thanks very much.
Can you let us know how much momentum I think you’re in your programmatic buying business I mean once you start circling the comps I guess do you think there’s still going to be great growth in that business are we just sort of any sort of color in terms of giving us where we are in this cycle.
And also on the margin front do you think it has a negative impact on overall profitability or less than 2% of revenue’s really not making an impact at this point? Good morning Alexia I think its early days with respect to programmatic; we’re just developing the skills and refining them.
And the technologies come up really on board in the last 12 – 13 months which enables us to better target our audiences.
If what projections we read and we’re told by our own media people are true more and more media will be purchased in this fashion as we get into 2015 and into the future.
We don’t have at this point because it’s so new because these shifts are happening at such a rapid pace we don’t have an accurate forecast to give you over the phone as to how fast this business which is currently 2% of our businesses is going to grow in the fourth quarter and throughout next year.
But we’re very comfortable that it’s going to be at least double-digits.
And with respect to margins I don’t believe you attribute the margin decline of a tenth of a percent to any one particular item.
Phil mentioned a few and we continue to invest in the very bright people that become available on the marketplace when they become available on the marketplace.
Because we know that they’ll pay huge dividends to our growth in the future.
One thing to add Alexia we certainly did see an increase in programmatic demand beginning in the fourth quarter of last year late in the third quarter and into the fourth quarter.
So we’re certainly aware of them this year but optimistic about the growth in the future.
Again John just one follow up you’ve got such a great perspective on sort of the overall advertising market.
I guess if you could give us your opinion or some color of how advertisers are seeing overall budgets and spending levels it sounds from everything you’ve said here and your great results that clearly – spending seems very healthy.
But there’s a bit of nervousness among the investor community towards the perception on advertisers are kind of abandoning TV and moving to digital.
I guess in your opinion do you think there’s a big much more notable change this year on that front or is it more a continuation of a trend we’ve been seeing for a while? I don’t well First of all marketing budgets continue to grow clients though especially when it comes to TV there has been I’d say a shift there’s like – when you look at traditional areas like the upfront and the scatter markets and you went back a couple of years there was an urgency on the part of appliance to make certain that they didn’t miss out on the programming that they wanted.
With all the various choices of how to reach the audiences you need to reach today and our ability to do it there wasn’t that urgency going into the first – to the upfront this year.
And with respect to the scatter markets I think you’re seeing money being diverted into other areas.
I believe that trend will continue I don’t think TV’s dead I just think that there’s going to be a shift.
And oddly enough when you look at it or when I look at it as an investor some of the people from – a great number of the people that own the content that we’re going to want to be able to use to put online is part owned by what you would refer to as the traditional media owners.
So they may not get the money out of TV they may get it out of some other source but I just see the complexity changing some of the rules that were easy to live by in the past.
Alright thank you very much.
Yes good morning and John if you could just give us your current thoughts I know it’s early here but as you think after 2015 where your general senses from your clients what their marketing budgets may look like next year I have a follow up question too thank you? Okay it’s a bit early for me to be giving you forecasts at the moment Craig our companies our agencies are in the process of doing that right now.
And we’ll be reviewing it with them from; I think it’s probably next Monday all the way probably through December.
My sense is that the United States remains healthy it’s a good market to be in and I don’t see too much in the way that’s going to get in the way of slowing down the pace of growth in the States.
Once you get outside the United States there’s a lot of trouble in the world we don’t have much hope for real economic growth in the Euro for next year.
Again we haven’t seen it reflected in our budgets but because we haven’t done that budgeting yet but the Euro is a concern certainly after – although it’s small offers it remains a concern.
Brazil’s had some difficulties which I think will continue and may impact just a little bit.
So we’re pretty balanced and conservative in anticipation of getting the information but I don’t know how helpful that is.
I feel cautiously optimistic; I guess you’d say it’s certainly still early for us but the process at our operations and our agencies has begun.
In addition of spending some more time with the agencies on Q4 in the next few weeks we’ll be spending more time on the ‘15 as we go.
One other thing that bodes well for us and the year’s not over is we’ve had fewer losses this year just cycle against next year.
So putting currency aside there’s less headwind as we see the – but we’re certainly confident that we’re well positioned both in terms of the disciplines we’ve been investing in in the overall balance in the company.
And also John in North America again revenue growth up 8.9% it’s obviously quite an acceleration from the first half of this year the prior three years frankly.
What has changed in your mind in your business why was up so strong here in North America? As I said problematic came on board for us we really – even though we’ve been investing in it it came on in earnest in the fourth quarter of last year so there was a contribution from that that.
Again at the end of last year we had fewer losses than in the same period the prior years is cycled through and we’re up against.
And we’ve had a pretty good run this year from a new business point of view and securing client budgets.
So I think it’s a cumulative of all that and probably one or two things I’m forgetting to mention that has contributed to our growth.
And then finally Phil if I could just ask you for – the UK you guys mentioned it was relatively strong I guess in the quarters.
I mean organic revenue in the UK was up say 7% to 9% versus a year ago? I don’t have the number in front of me at the moment but it was certainly – give me a second here and we’ll check it I think that’s probably a good range.
Maybe it’s a little on the high side it’s probably more in the 5 or 6 range this quarter.
Thank you.
Hey thank you very much guys.
So I want to follow up on the first question a little bit that Alexia asked which is I know we’re dealing with lot small numbers today.
But at what point does that revenue contribution from programmatic need to be before you indicate that it’s moving the toggle and profitability.
So the quarter would you say 10% of our revenue is now coming from programmatic and that’s moving the toggles.
Is there some movement like that? And then the second question is when you look at the data programmatic business mix.
If you look at that kind of 200 basis point’s contribution how much of that is coming from owned media and the sense that you’re profiting from your owned media thanks very much? I’d be happy for it to be 10% of a growing business I’m certain I don’t have those projections in front of me my media people aren’t signing up for those kinds of numbers yet.
I would imagine it will take that level of contribution before it starts to impact the rest of Omnicom because the rest of Omnicom is so large.
Don’t know if I’m answering your question exactly but if not – So quite a ways away before it’s a toggle on margin? Yes I think so in any meaningful fashion because the company is so large.
We run a business on the – I was just – on the owned media contribution? Yeah I mean if you’re comparing us to say what Xaxis claims it does we haven’t gone out yet and looked for non-Omnicom clients nor gone out and purchased inventory in any meaningful fashion.
We’re studying what they’re doing and when I also listen to them and I listen as carefully as I can they claim to have a significant business in Xaxis in Europe much more significant than ours.
I view that as a huge opportunity that we have to sort through and because there’s no reason to believe that we can’t be impact full there as well.
Yeah I think we – it’s early days so we’ve certainly been exploring a number of different approaches but we’re only occasional – we’ve only occasionally opportunistically moved forward on – I’d just like to –.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thanks for the additional detail on margins Phil when you referred to the negative impact of mix what areas specifically are you referring to? And then on programmatic are the margins for that business any lower than your other businesses? Can you repeat the second part Bill? Sure how does the margin profile look like for programmatic is it at the average or is it below? I think we’ve got a limited history with Accuen at this point it’s relatively new it’s obviously rapidly growing.
We’ve been making some significant investments over the last few years here.
We expect it’s going to achieve margin levels over time similar to the rest of our media business so we’re taking a longer term view on the business itself.
And we’re very excited about the opportunity but we’re trying to find the right balance for our overall business and for that business in particular.
We do have some fulfillment businesses that we’ve talked about in the past certainly in those businesses that they don’t require a lot of capital they give great returns.
And our primary focus is on EBIT dollars as opposed to the absolute margin percentage.
So that’s certainly at any one quarter can have an impact on our mix.
And just separately on programmatic is there any difference in the way you account for it and recognize revenues versus your other media buying businesses? Well I think we follow GAAP and we’ve always tried to be clear and consistent and straight forward about it but the vast majority of our media businesses we act as an agent.
So there is a difference in the model versus the Accuen model.
And the Accuen model we agree to some specific advertiser performance objective’s up front we agreed the price.
And the price includes the whole package and the cost and execution risk is Accuen so it’s not an agency model so there is a difference there.
Thank you.
Hi.
Thanks a couple things please if I could just try to characterize your comments on life outside the U.S.
is it fair to say that you haven’t necessarily seen any risk or pullback to spending but you’re certainly vary of issues not just political issues or health issues in some regions but just the growth in the Euro zone and in some emerging markets is that a fair characterization? And secondly I wanted to ask you about your IT and software partnerships you mentioned Salesforce and you’ve got a couple others.
Is there anything you can say in terms of what the scope of work is with these arrangements help explain what they are what type of revenue sharing agreements you might have what the potential for growth from these might be? Thanks.
With respect to your first question Europe I think by all accounts has just introduced their own version of QE.
And so we’re not expecting much growth to come out of big countries in Europe as to distinguish it from the rest of the world.
In other parts of the world leaving aside wars and illness I think what we’ve seen is they’re still growing and god knows we still have plenty of room to gain market share.
But they’re not just; they’re not growing at the same pace of growth that we were experiencing in the past.
Your second question and pardon me for not having been fast enough to write it down could you repeat it? Sure it’s about the IT and software partnerships that you’ve had you mentioned Salesforce.com and you’ve done some others.
Just if you could explain a bit more what those are what is the scope of work are these like revenue share agreements what’s the growth profile of these? Just explain a bit more what those are please.
Sure the partnerships and there’s an over a 100 of them are designed to do different things and I’m sure that our technology partners won access to our systems.
And therefore access to our client spending.
From our perspective they offer technology that we are not a technology company but we are a user of technology and we look to partner with to the person at the time or in the period that can help us achieve our goals.
Our goals are really to reach the right customer at the right time when they are in the right mood with the correct message.
And all these various partnerships in one fashion or another are to refine our data and to back the information that we require in order to accomplish those things.
And to your other question there aren’t any specific set of revenue sharing or payment streams these are partnerships which benefit both parties in terms of the task and the scope we’re asking each party to perform.
And just add to that a little bit on the sales front Essentially the partnerships with CRM data sharing initiative that’s going to help us and – create more personalized communications to connect the dots between these marketing sales and customers service information we think that agreement’s going to be a particular use for our CRM agencies so it’s really about the data sharing.
And on Facebook front as John said it’s a partnership that’s going to provide our clients ultimately who choose to use – all the benefits of people based marketing.
And being able to target and measure based on people in both online and offline measurement world so it’s really getting access to the technology and the platform but again it isn’t the deal that has commitments on our side.
Okay thank you.
Thank you good morning and thanks for the color on programmatic which of course I want to ask more questions on.
It is a big topic so can you help us think about from an Omnicom perspective how incremental programmatic is to your business from your clients.
I guess what I’m struggling speaking about is if a client spends x amount of dollars on media buying through Omnicom traditionally either on TV or through direct digital platforms and then shift to buy it through your Accuen platform.
Is that generating incremental revenue for you and of it is is it primarily because the accounting is different because you’re acting or as principle as you said before programmatic.
And if it is the incremental where’s that money coming from and obviously client I wouldn’t imagine that clients are spending more money in aggregate because of programmatic but maybe that’s incorrect? I would agree I don’t see more new money coming in to the overall spend I see a shift our objective through all of this is to improve the ROI of the money spent by our clients.
And them achieving their objective of reaching customers and technology allows you to do that when – we have traditional customers that are trading on trading desk that are embedded in our agencies.
And there were just in the marketplace bidding against whoever else is out there.
We also have an opt-in model where we are in a sense taking the risk of achieving objectives that the client laid out in reaching those audiences.
One is more of a known to the client one is since you don’t know who you’re bidding against at any given time.
We don’t quite know what the environment’s going to be so the accounting is pretty straight forward the accounting is defined by a bunch of people who sit behind GAAP and depending on I’ve learned years ago simply to accept what they say not to argue with they say.
So I’m not sure if I’ve answered your question but it is an increasing area where we can be more effective to the client’s dollars.
Okay I think that makes sense.
In another words the clients want to pay Omnicom more as a percentage of its overall spending because the buyer is more valuable from an ROI perspective I think that’s what you’re predicting? Right and we are agnostic player in the marketplace and as we move forward in some of our predictions come true there are going to be couple of players there’s always going to be Google there’s always going to be Facebook.
In all likelihood there always be WPP and then us who have the scaling and the source and we are agnostic we’re not attempting to sale inventory that we only mass.
We are simply going after audiences but we know our clients’ needs to reach.
That was actually where I wanted to go to it’s just in relationship with Facebook particularly on Atlas because it would seem overtime you’re competing for economics Atlas from an Accuen perspective both trying to get a fee on mobile spending for advertisers and may be there’s an analogy with Google on double click that you could point as to how that works well over time? Right now I consider both companies friends and not enemies there isn’t that much conflict between what we are trying to do and what they are trying to do.
We are cognizant every day that could change at some point in the future but right now they are big clients of ours and we are big clients of theirs and we ventured into economically sound deals with both.
Certainly we see them as partners and keep in mind no single media vendors sees the whole landscape quite like we do.
And as John had said we are neutral third party so we see search social display video across all devices and we try to link the customers across all of them which not everybody can do.
Thanks for the color.
Sure.
I think we have time for just one last quick question.
Thank you.
I’ll make this fast.
First just going back fulfillment business Phil have seen any change to the margin profile over the past year or so.
Has the growth been similar to the rest of Omnicom and then secondly you talked briefly about Russia there seems to be maybe some change on the table there that’ll impact advertising.
Are you seeing any kind of early signs and further slowing in can you remind us about its revenue contribution I’m assuming low singles? Yeah in terms of size it’s definitely low singles on the low end of the low singles for Russia back to your margin point.
I think the profile hasn’t really changed we approach each of our agencies each of our core operations and work with them to try and find margin that’s right for them.
And again we’re focused on the margin dollars not just a percentage that you can’t really feel and touch.
And we think great businesses great returns and we’re happy to have them.
They’ve been performing well on the whole over a period of time that they kind of perform similar to Omnicom overall I think probably little slower rate than we’ve seen in Accuen and the media business lately but we’re happy with their performance.
Thanks.
Just a quickly on Russia anything in terms it’s just the tender of the business I know you mentioned its slowing a little bit but any sense that slow is more so going forward or not yet? Not yet the business has actually been doing well not just for the external environment in Russia the business has been solid we haven’t seen any signs yet of that other than a slight slowdown and some excellent performance but it’s still performing really well.
No reason to think anything is imminent.
Thank you.
Okay.
Well thank you everyone for joining the call.
And we’ll talk to you again soon.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen good morning and welcome to the Omnicom Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to now introduce you to your host for today’s conference call Vice President of Investor Relations Shub Mukherjee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
On the call with me today is John Wren President and Chief Executive Officer and Phil Angelastro Chief Financial Officer.
We hope everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release we have posted on our website at www.omnicomgroup.com website both our press release and the presentation covering the information that we will be reviewing this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I have been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that we have included at the end of our Investor Presentation and to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and that actual events or results may differ materially.
I would also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom’s performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation material.
We are going to begin this morning’s call with an overview of our business from John Wren.
Then Phil Angelastro will review our financial results.
And then we will open up the line to your questions.
Thank you Shub.
Thank you for joining us.
Good morning.
I am pleased to speak to you about our fourth quarter and the full year 2014 business results.
As you have seen in our press release Omnicom had a solid fourth quarter with organic growth of 5.9% giving us strong finish to the year.
Before I discuss our results in detail I want to reflect upon a number of factors that impact Omnicom our clients and their consumers in countries where they operate.
First from a macroeconomic perspective recent declines in oil and commodity prices are helping the consumer and many industries and countries.
At this point the U.S.
economy looks to be the biggest beneficiary of these changes with the decline in oil prices likely being additive to U.S.
GDP in 2015.
When you move from the U.S.
to the global economy we are seeing a divergence for the first time in central bank policies and actions.
Central banks from Australia to Europe Canada have been lowering borrowing cost to try to kick start growth in their economy.
As a result their currencies have declined versus the U.S.
dollar.
At Omnicom a little over 46% of our revenues are generated outside the United States.
The significant change in exchange rates resulted in a 3.1% reduction in our revenue in the fourth quarter and will impact our reported results in 2015.
At the same time it’s important to point out that most of our non-U.S.
operations are naturally hedged as both revenue and expenses are in the same currency.
Both Phil and I will discuss the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in more detail later in the call.
From an industry perspective we are undergoing a major transformation as new digital tools and platforms emerge with media and technology evolving at an astonishing pace.
In 2014 digital ad spend worldwide exceeded $137 billion a 15% increase.
We expect that shift to digital will only accelerate over the next 5 years.
There are also changes at Omnicom in 2014.
In May we made a mutual decision with Publicis to terminate our proposed merger which had been announced in July 2013.
And later in the third quarter we made leadership changes in top positions at Omnicom corporate and the TBWA network.
Given these macro industry and company events I am delighted with the results we report this morning.
Our performance in this environment says a lot about the strength of our culture the quality of our people and the depth of our leadership and governance.
Let me now turn to our revenue performance by region.
In the fourth quarter North America grew 8.3% driven by the continued strong performance of our media business as well as solid results from public relations and our specialty healthcare business.
In the UK our agencies continued to perform very well with revenue up 6.2% in the quarter.
On the continent overall growth was 1.2%.
More specifically the euro currency markets were flat.
Germany was positive while France and the Netherlands continued to drag on the region.
We are hopeful that the latest central bank actions combined with structural reforms will lead to stability and ultimately economic growth.
Growth in the rest of the region was relatively strong led by Sweden and Turkey and Russia was up despite economic turbulence.
Latin America was down slightly in the quarter due to the loss of government accounts in Chile in mid 2014.
Asia’s growth was up 3.2% with key contributors this quarter being India and Singapore.
We also had strong growth throughout the Middle East.
As promised our margins for the quarter were on plan.
This result was achieved despite negative margin pressures due to the currency declines I discussed earlier.
For the full year 2014 Omnicom’s worldwide organic growth was 5.7%.
Our total revenue increased to $15.3 billion and our earnings per share was $4.23 a 10.2% increase from 2013 after excluding related costs to the proposed Omnicom Publicis merger.
Turning to our cash flow and return on capital in 2014 we generated just shy of $1.6 billion in free cash flow an increase of $125 million year-over-year.
We returned approximately $1.5 billion of cash to shareholders through dividends and net share repurchases.
As you may recall post the termination of the proposed Publicis Omnicom merger our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend by 25% to $0.50 per share and we resumed our share repurchase program.
Looking forward our practice for use of cash dividend acquisitions and share repurchases remains unchanged as does our commitment to the strong balance sheet and then maintaining our credit rating.
As we move into 2015 given the current environment we remain focused on the things we can control.
Our management teams are dedicated to servicing their client needs attracting and retaining the best talent while at the same time being laser focused on managing costs.
I want to thank our people our clients and all of our stakeholders for their contributions to our fourth quarter and for the full year results for 2014.
Our strong and consistent performance are a testament to the fact that Omnicom’s long-term strategies are working.
As I have said before we are attracting retaining and developing top talent expanding our capabilities in both new markets and new service areas building our digital data and analytical capabilities by investing in our agencies and partnering with innovative technology companies and delivering big ideas based upon meaningful consumer insights across all of the channels that we operate.
Our ability to stay on top or ahead of the change simply puts we have the best talent in the business which is why we win more than our fair share of the industry’s recognition awards and business.
Last quarter Omnicom agencies continued their tradition of being most creatively awarded company in the world.
Let me just mention a few of the highlights.
BBDO was named most awarded agency network in the world in 2014 by the Gunn Report for the ninth consecutive year.
DDB was the second most awarded network.
OMD was named global media agency of the year by Adweek.
Advertising Age honored Adam&amp;Eve DDB as international agency of the year.
And Alma DDB won multicultural agency of the year.
At the Campaign Asia-Pacific Agency of the year award TBWA and DDB won creative agencies for the year in Japan Korea Malaysia New Zealand Southeast Asia Philippines and Indonesia.
And there were many others.
I want to congratulate all of our people and agencies for their outstanding performance and creativity in 2014.
As I mentioned earlier and as you all know our industry is becoming increasingly complex and our clients are looking to us for ways to navigate this rapidly changing landscape.
At Omnicom we are continually expanding our capabilities to meet our clients’ needs.
Technology is providing tools and we are providing the brain to deliver actionable consumer insights develop better ways to target consumers and then reaching them across many different disciplines in media to give Omnicom clients the best possible solution.
Our internal investments in people our technology partnerships and our acquisitions have allowed us to expand our company and participate in these rapidly growing areas.
2014 more than any year I can remember was the year that we truly saw the convergence of technology creativity and media changed the way our agencies operate.
Several events come to mind as part of our partnership deals with tech companies our creative talent is working side by side with engineers from Facebook Google Instagram Twitter and others.
And the net result is increasing innovative solutions to our clients.
As an example Lowe’s which was among the first to use Vines as a marketing tool with its award-winning Fix in Six campaign launched it’s Next Generation of Vines using Tap Thru and HyperMade.
These are new innovative technologies that deliver unique and differentiated content to consumers.
The campaign for Lowe’s is a fully integrated effort together our agencies and tech partners did everything from creative and targeting the media placement and analytics.
We are seeing this trend to play out as we broaden our reach and functionality of Annalect Data Management Platform an investment we began in 2013.
As an example data analysts from Annalect are part of the creative and digital teams servicing multiple clients.
These teams are leveraging data and analytics to help inform planning and creative to deliver relevant content to optimize campaign with the real-time insights.
The result is much greater precision delivering the right message to the right audience at the right time and on the right device.
Finally our acquisitions are also supplementing our expansion into rapidly growing areas.
Earlier this month we acquired TLGG a strategic consulting and digital agency in Germany.
Late in 2014 we have purchased Washington-based DDC Advocacy an innovative CRM agency for clients in the Public Affairs space.
And Omnicom’s DAS took full ownership of Critical Mass a leading global digital shop.
In 2015 we continue to focus our acquisition efforts in key markets and areas of growth including media data and analytics CRM production and healthcare.
Looking back on a year of unprecedented changes Omnicom continues to be an industry leader embracing new technologies delivering outstanding creativity for our clients and their brands and generating an exceptional total return to shareholders.
I want to recognize a more than 70 000 people for bringing their A games to our clients everyday.
I will now turn the call over to Phil for a closer look at the numbers.
Thank you John and good morning.
As John said our operating companies have continued to perform very well delivering against their operating and strategic objectives and maintaining their focus on meeting the needs of their clients.
As a result of the excellent performance of our agencies revenue for the quarter came in at just about $4.2 billion up 3.4%.
The year-over-year increase was driven by continued strong organic growth of 5.9% this despite a considerable FX headwind this quarter of 3.1%.
FX was negative this quarter across virtually every currency we operate in.
I will discuss our revenue growth in detail in a few minutes.
Turning to the figures below revenue a quick reminder as you know we terminated the merger this past May.
During the fourth quarter of ‘13 we incurred $13.3 million of merger-related costs.
These costs are included in our GAAP results for 2013.
In discussing our performance for the quarter my comments will compare the current quarter to last year’s Q4 results excluding the impact of the merger-related expenses.
You can find this non-GAAP presentation in the supplemental financial information section on Slides 19 through 24.
Turning to Slide 19 our EBITDA for the quarter increased to $609 million from $589 million an increase of 3.5% compared to Q4 last year.
The resulting EBITDA margin for the quarter was 14.5% unchanged versus Q4 last year.
As said previously the sharp decline in value relative to the U.S.
dollar of virtually all currencies we operated in negatively impacted our revenues across all of our international operations because the vast majority of our expenses are denominated in same local currencies as our revenues the negative impact of FX on our margins in the quarter was manageable.
Despite this FX headwind we continue to see a positive impact from our efforts to drive efficiencies throughout our organization and our agency and to control our cost.
Operating income or EBIT performed similarly to EBITDA increasing $15 million or 2.6% to $579 million.
And our operating margin of 13.8% was down slightly versus Q4 2013 due to the increase in amortization on our intangible assets.
Now turning to the items below operating income net interest expense for the quarter is $30 million down $1.4 million from the third quarter and down $9.8 million year-over-year.
As compared to Q3 while we incurred additional interest expense related to the $750 million of 10-year senior notes that we issued early in the fourth quarter the increase was effectively offset by the impact of the fixed to floating interest rate swaps we entered into late in the third quarter related to our 2020 senior notes.
Net interest expense was also reduced by additional interest income earned by our international treasury centers as a result of higher than average cash balances in Q4 as compared to Q3.
Versus last year net interest expense was down $9.8 million in the quarter.
This was primarily due to the positive impact of the interest rate swaps we entered into over the past year in mid Q2 and late Q3 net of the additional interest expense related to the new issuance of senior notes in Q4 of 2014 plus benefits from our cash management efforts in the form of increased interest income earned by our international treasury centers.
Our quarterly tax rate of 33.2% is in line with our normal expectations.
Earnings from our affiliates were up slightly in the quarter to $5.7 million and the allocation of earnings to the minority shareholders and our less than fully owned subsidiaries increased $3.4 million to $43.4 million as a result of improved performance at several of our existing subsidiaries that have local minority owners as well as at several of our new acquisitions.
As a result net income was $329.5 million that’s an increase of $15.7 million or 5% versus Q4 last year and an increase of 9.7% compared to the 2013 reported amount.
Now turning to Page 21 the remaining net income available for common shareholders for the quarter after the allocation of $5.6 million of net income to participating securities which for us or the unvested restricted shares held by our employees was $323.9 million an increase of 5.7% versus Q4 last year.
You can also see our diluted share count for the quarter was $249.9 million which is down 4.1% versus last year as a result of the resumption of our share buyback program during the second quarter of 2014.
Given our overall strong performance in the quarter diluted EPS for the quarter was $1.30 an increase of $0.12 or 10.2% versus Q4 2013 or up $0.17 and 15% compared to the 2013 reported amount.
On Slides 22 through 24 we provide the summary P&amp;L EPS and other information for the full year.
To save some time I will just give you a few highlights.
Full year revenue was up 5% driven predominantly by organic growth of 5.7% with FX going from positive for the first nine months of the year to slightly negative for the year and net acquisitions turning from negative for the first nine months of the year to slightly positive for the year.
EBITDA increased 4.3% to $2.05 billion while our full year EBITDA margin was 13.4% down about 10 basis points versus last year.
As a reminder the 2014 EBITDA amount include $8.8 million from merger-related costs incurred earlier in the year.
Our effective tax rate for the year was 32.8% slightly below our operating rate of 33.2% reflecting the impact of the tax benefit we recognized upon termination of the merger in the second quarter.
The benefit related to merger expenses recognized in 2013 which are required to be capitalized for tax purposes at that time.
Net income for the year was $1.1 billion up 7.6% over 2013 and our full year diluted EPS was $4.24 per share up $0.40 versus 2013 non-GAAP amount of $3.84 and up $0.53 versus our reported 2013 amount of $3.71.
Excluding the impact of merger expenses and the related tax benefits from both years full year diluted EPS for 2014 was $4.23 per share up 10.2% versus 2013 diluted EPS of $3.84.
Turning back to Slide 7 we shift the discussion to our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter the U.S.
dollar strengthened against every one of our major currencies most notably the euro as well as the Australian and Canadian dollars the real the ruble and the yen.
This decreased our revenue for the quarter by $129 million or 3.1%.
Looking ahead considering the recent steep decline in the value of all major currencies against the dollar in a relative short period of time these FX rates for 2015 stay where they are.
FX could have a negative impact on our revenues approximately 5.5% during the first quarter of 2015 and approximately 5% for the year.
Given it is only early February it’s hard to predict what will happen to FX rate for the balance of the year.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $26 million driven by our recent acquisitions in Brazil Chile Germany Turkey and the UK as well as here in the U.S.
With the transactions that we have completed through December 31 we expect acquisitions net of dispositions to add about 50 basis points to 60 basis points to revenue in the first quarter and the year.
And finally organic growth was positive $240 million or 5.9% for the quarter.
It was another strong quarter with positive organic growth across all of our markets with the exception being France Italy the Netherlands Japan and South Korea and the smaller markets of Latin America.
The primary drivers of our growth this quarter included the continued excellent performance across our media businesses driven by the continuing expansion of our media offerings and new business wins continuing strength domestically and in the UK with the PR and specialty businesses turning in solid performances this quarter.
In addition to the strong performance in the U.S.
and the UK our agencies in the emerging markets continue to perform very well.
This quarter we had excellent performances in India Mexico and the UAE.
In the euro markets overall organic growth was basically flat.
Germany and Spain were again positive as they have been for several quarters while the French and Dutch markets are still struggling.
And we continue to see generally good performance across our businesses in our other markets including Brazil China India and our non-euro markets in Europe although the rate of growth continues to be somewhat uneven market by market.
Slide 8 covers our full year revenue performance which is basically in line with this quarter’s results except for FX which was slightly positive for the first nine months before turning slightly negative for the year.
On Slides 9 and 10 we present our regional mix of business.
During the quarter the split was 57% for North America 10% for the UK 18% for the rest of Europe 10% for Asia-Pacific 3% for Latin America and 2% for Africa and the Middle East.
Turning to the details on Slide 10 in North America we had organic revenue growth of 8.3% again primarily driven this quarter by the performance of our media businesses healthcare and PR businesses.
The UK once again had a very strong quarter and has been consistently positive organically for the last two years.
The rest of Europe was up 1.2% led by a solid performance in Germany continuing strong performance in Spain and our other non-euro markets in Europe.
On the downside France and Netherlands continue to struggle.
Asia-Pacific was up 3.2%.
We had strong performances across the region with India and Singapore leading the way with double-digit growth.
China also had a solid quarter especially in light of a difficult comp versus Q4 of 2013 while Japan and South Korea also facing difficult comps versus Q4 of 2013 experienced softness in the quarter.
Latin America overall was down slightly.
The positive performance in Brazil also facing a difficult comp versus Q4 of last year and Mexico was offset by weakness and Chile related to the loss of the significant decline in that market which will continue to cycle into the first half of next year.
In Africa and the Middle East regions although off a small base was up 14% led by a very strong quarter from our businesses in the UAE.
Slide 11 shows our mix of business for the quarter which again was split about evenly between advertising and marketing services.
As for their respective organic growth rates brand advertising was up 8.5% primarily driven by the excellent performance of our media businesses and marketing services overall was up 3.4%.
Within marketing services CRM coming off a robust performance in Q4 of 2013 was up 1%.
The performance was mixed by business and discipline in Q4.
Our events in fuel marketing businesses had a challenging quarter while the direct marketing sales promotion and research businesses had strong performances with trends across several markets.
Public relations was up 8.5% relative to a challenging Q4 2013 and reflecting strength in the U.S.
and the UK in 2014.
Specialty communications was up about 9.4% on the strength of our healthcare businesses in the U.S.
and the UK partially offset by some weakness in Japan.
On Slide 12 we present our mix of business by industry sector keeping in mind these year-to-date figures total growth not just organic growth.
As you can see we are up in almost all categories.
The larger changes were in our telecom and other industries group.
Telecom continues to be impacted by the loss of Blackberry and within other we benefited from new business wins and project spending from our services clients.
Turning to our cash flow performance on Slide 13 in 2014 we generated $1.58 billion of free cash flow including changes in working capital an increase of 8.6% versus 2013.
As for our primary uses of cash on Slide 14 dividends paid to our common shareholders were $468 million up significantly from last year.
As a reminder in 2013 we only made three dividend payments because we paid our normal Q1 dividend in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Additionally we increased our quarterly dividend earlier this year.
Dividends paid to our non-controlling interest shareholders totaled $111 million.
Capital expenditures were $213 million which was in line with our expectations for the year.
Acquisitions including earn-out payments net of proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $207 million and stock repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $994 million.
Since we restarted our share repurchase program in mid-May post the termination of the merger we have purchased about 14.3 million shares net.
As a result we outspent our free cash flow by about $410 million for the year.
Turning to Slide 15 focusing first on our capital structure as you maybe aware we issued $750 million in 10-year senior notes a 3.65% during the fourth quarter.
As a result our total debt increased to $4.6 billion as of December 31 and our leverage approximates our historic norms.
And our net debt position at the end of the quarter was $2.2 million.
The increase in our net debt of $869 million over the past year was driven primarily by the use of cash in excess of our free cash flow as we just discussed as well as the negative impact of FX translations on our cash balance at December 31 2014 of approximately $275 million.
In spite of the increase in our debt our ratios remain very strong.
Our total debt to EBITDA was two times and our net debt to EBITDA ratio was one time.
And due to both the decrease in our interest expense and the increase in EBITDA our interest coverage ratio improved to 12.6 times.
Turning to Slide 16 we continue to successfully build the company through a combination of prudently priced acquisitions and well-focused internal development initiatives.
For the last 12 months our return on invested capital increased 20.3% and return on equity increased 34.3%.
And finally on Slide 17 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders since 2004.
The line on the top of the chart shows our cumulative net income from fiscal 2004 through 2014 which totaled $10 billion.
And the bar show the cumulative return of cash to shareholders including both dividends and net share repurchases to some of which during the same period totaled $10.8 billion for cumulative payout ratio of 108%.
And that concludes our prepared remarks.
Please note that we have included number of other supplemental slides on the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point we are going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani representing JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
My first question is just on the strong growth you saw the organic growth picks in the U.S.
in the quarter is there anyway you can give us the sense about how much contributions the programmatic was to that growth in the quarter.
And then I have a follow-up question really about the FX headwinds you are going to be seeing in 2000 – or continue to be seeing in 2015 do you think it’s possible to still maintain your margins in ‘15 with that headwind maybe from the natural leverage you get from the healthy organic growth you are seeing? Thanks.
Good morning we were cycling on our programmatic business during the fourth quarter.
And I believe the contribution to the gross in the quarter was about $20 million.
Your second question on FX at this point we are hoping that FX moderates as we go through the year.
And looking at the first quarter and we have looked at in detail we believe we can maintain the margins in the first quarter.
As Phil was speaking I am looking at the news of a little bit and seeing Egypt came out this morning every central bank seems to do something new everyday.
So I can give you the assurance through the first quarter.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on the client loss in Latin America I think you mentioned which created difficult performance in that quarter do you know if that was the one-time sort of project or is that something that will be a headwind for the whole year? That was a project – that was the client in Chile.
We expect in the first half of ’15 that’s going to have a bit of a headwind as we cycle on it.
It started kind of the end of the second quarter of ’14 so there will be a little bit of negative impact in showing that beginning in next year.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks very much.
Actually a little bit of a follow-up to the first question on the margin target I guess which realizing the difficulty of reading the tea leaves in a macro landscape that’s hugely volatile and central banks doing all kinds of conflicting things but can you give us a broad sense of what the organic top line range needs to be in order for you to maintain your current level of margins? I will let Phil take a shot of this and then I will add.
Yes.
I mean I am not sure that we – I am not sure we look at it that way but certainly the key to a lot of our businesses is being able to manage utilization rate.
And the more growth we have the easier it is to manage those utilization rates the easier it is to maintain and/or grow your margins.
What we strive to do that regardless of what the growth rates are across all of our businesses.
So FX has certainly posed a bit of a challenge for us from the margin perspective which is why I think we are not projecting and predicting and committing to what our margin is going to be for the full year ’15.
But we always strive to find the right balance we are always looking for efficiencies and trying to make our businesses more effective in the way they manage their cost structure.
We had a number of initiatives that have been going on for sometime in the areas of real estate IT and some others that we certainly continue to see the benefit of.
And we are expecting if we need to push those initiatives in ’15 so that they can help us to offset whatever challenges the FX does present.
And as we have said earlier the businesses themselves are largely hedged naturally in terms of the local currency of the expenses is the same as the local currency of the revenues.
So that’s helpful but it’s still certainly a challenge and we are going to continue to work through it everyday.
Okay.
John you said you had a follow-up? As soon as I said I have listened to Phil and he added all.
Thanks.
Thanks guys.
Our next question is from the line of Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
John want to ask you about the media business separate from the programmatic stuff media has been called out by you guys and your leading competitors as a significant contributor and outperform our – I don’t know maybe for the last four to six quarters wondering if you could give a little perspective on what you think the drivers of this outperformance is? Is it the complexity of the landscape? We hear a lot about pricing pressure in media pitches but it just doesn’t seem to be the case.
So any perspective here would be great? Thanks very much.
Certainly.
I do think the complexity of the marketplace has caused people to pay more attention to media and in the thinking about media God knows how many places you can place your messaging today but focusing and getting that right is becoming increasingly important.
So the analysts the people that we employ the digital channels or channels that we select through the client to place that media is a critical attention in this environment.
And we won I believe more than our fair share of media accounts being planning assignments or buying assignments over the last several years and it’s being reflected in the numbers now.
If you saw the trade magazines yesterday OMD was named agency of the year.
So we are getting the recognition not only in the business that we get but also from peer groups and industry groups.
I know it’s tough for you to forecast but as you look at ‘15 do you think media could be an out-performer for this year as well? I do.
Thanks very much.
Our next question is from the line of Tim Nollen representing Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you very much.
I wonder if you could give a comment please at this stage beginning of the year of what client how client budgets feel if I could put it that way.
It seems like your organic performance has been very strong despite what is felt like some crimping of budget.
I wonder if you would comment a bit on if there is any expansion of budget opportunities this year in general or maybe if you are seeing some pent-up demand or do you still feel like advertisers are just kind of holding back? And if you have any specific sector commentary that will be great considering especially the consumer packaged goods sector? Thanks.
In general what we have seen to-date in process is the budgets are similar to the budget for ‘14 with growth in few categories more so than others.
I think the other dynamic that’s occurring is as channels are developed and utilize them and you measure a better ROI on them you will see a shift in the dollars which for some it will look like growth because it will be and for others as that money shifted from different channels in media it will seem like there is the lack of growth.
So overall though I think budgets are growing consistent with GDP growth in most markets.
Any specific sector commentary? I suspect that German Cargill is going to have a brand time in 2015 because of the currency slinks.
There are different sectors different dynamics which drove those sectors.
Okay thanks so much.
And we have a question from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
I have got a few questions.
Your comment about the currency impact on the margin in the quarter I think you said was a slight should we assume that’s zero to 7 basis points year-over-year it’s my first question? I didn’t understand the question.
What was the impact please on currency on margins year-over-year in the quarter can you quantify that number? In Q4 I would say that there was an impact but it was relatively small less than 10 basis points in the quarter.
Okay.
And then typically each quarter you guys shoot to have net new business wins of $1 billion and a little bit higher what was that in the fourth quarter please? That was about $1.25 billion for the quarter.
Okay.
Phil on the debt side how much room do you think you have to add more debt potentially to buyback more stock or small acquisitions and not impact your credit rating? I think we don’t exactly look at it that way in terms of how much more leverage we could or we would like to add.
I think the goal here and the approach has always been to maintain our rating which I guess you commented on there.
But I think we are going to look at our free cash flow in ‘15 the same way we always have.
And I think I am calling it up what we do with our cash.
We are going to continue to pay healthy dividend.
We will do acquisitions opportunistically as the opportunities arise.
And we would certainly like to do more of those in ’15 there maybe some opportunities given some of the weaknesses in currencies perhaps.
But we don’t have a fixed number going into ‘15 that we plan on expending on acquisitions or plan on spending on share buybacks but certainly it will be a healthy component of how we use our cash.
And then lastly John if I could ask as you think about this year in terms of organic revenue growth for 2015 if I recall correctly I think a year ago you guys thought organic revenue for 2014 would be up 4% to 4.5% is your feeling somewhat similar as you are heading into 2015? I am actually a little bit more cautious than that.
At this point I see it is more around 3.5%.
And then we will see as markets and the business develop.
That – I mean the way to read that prediction is I am cautiously optimistic.
And we will do our best to beat it but that’s as much as I will be willing to commit over phone in February.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Julien Roch representing Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Thank you for taking the question.
The question on use of cash I know you have just said that you didn’t have a fixed number in mind in terms of buyback and M&amp;A for 2015 but it would be a healthy proportion of the cash but I guess if we start with your current net debt-to-EBITDA maybe you have an indication of where you would like to be at the end of the year in that way we can make our own assumption between dividend buyback and M&amp;A but having a – maybe an indication of the overall envelop for 2015 would be useful that’s my first question.
The second one is on programmatic you said that the impact was about $20 million in Q4 could we have the same number for the full year please? These are my two questions.
On the first one I think where we are at year end ‘14 in two times range for total debt to EBITDA is probably where you can expect us to be.
That’s roughly then where we have been historically we continue to look to maintain that ratio and I think that would be a good guide.
I think the net debt number is a little bit harder to predict given the currency impact on that number.
So I think we are going to focus on the later or the gross debt number a little bit more.
And in terms of programmatic I think we may have mentioned it earlier in our responses but the contribution to growth was about $20 million or so that reflects from the cycling in Q4 on a strong performance in Q4 of ‘13 that we had mentioned you can recall.
No you did mention the $20 million that was for Q4 I was hoping we could get that number for the full year.
While the full year the business itself for the full year is little less than 2% of our revenues and for the full year I think the number was just give me a minute – okay the full year the number was probably around in the $140 million range.
Okay thank you very much.
Very useful.
Our next question today is from the line of Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
Hey good morning everyone.
Phil just a quick one for you you’ve noted in your prepared remarks a little higher international cash balance contributing to investment income I was just curious are we facing a situation where that balance is growing a little bit faster than you are finding uses of it for considering that’s largely M&amp;A.
Do we have a situation where you feel like you are feeling a little constricted in what you can do with that? I am just curious to hear how those dynamics of where the cashes are changing? No I think the comment specifically related to higher international cash in Q4 versus Q3 of this year so that we typically see in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter.
I think it was part of the explanation of the change in interest from Q3 to Q4.
So we don’t see it growing any different than we have in the past.
I think we certainly are focused on bringing as much cash that’s overseas back to the U.S.
as we can in a tax efficient way.
That’s something we focus on a daily basis frankly because we would rather have it back to the U.S.
to deploy it but I think given the current FX environment current economic environment we think we are likely to see some opportunity in Europe and frankly in some of the other markets outside the U.S.
that might be a little more traffic to us from a pricing perspective.
And if we do find them in ‘15 we are going to be happy to complete those acquisitions.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We have a question from the line of Ben Swinburne representing Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Two questions.
John just going back to your outlook for ‘15 last year you guys did almost 6% organic I realized programmatic drove part of that strength but the underlying business grew quite nicely.
Why do you think ‘15 will grow couple of 100 basis points slower? Is programmatic part of that deceleration? It would seem like the macro tailwinds in the U.S.
are strong QE in Europe is potentially going to help.
I am just curious to get a little more color there? And then I just wanted to ask you about the Facebook relationship there.
Sure.
Well the programmatic we have cycled on that and we have not gone into the supply side of that.
So I am expecting good growth from it but not the type of growth we have had as we were starting it up.
In terms of the marketplace we continue to win business there is no question thank God we do but with all the unrest in the world I am just being optimistic but conservative in observing the obvious that it appears that the entire world’s economy is slowed down a bit.
And we can make claims that we are going to outgrow that historically.
We have been – historically we do at least 100 basis points better than GDP growth.
But there is a great deal of unrest out there.
And so we will alter that estimate as we get more sight on it as we go through the year but right now very comfortable with the 3.5% and I think that’s what we are going to see for – until some of these things start to clear up.
Got it.
And just on the Facebook relationship announced with a lot of fanfare back in the fall can you just update us on client response and sort of how that partnership is progressing from a data perspective? And if I could sneak one more back on programmatic to Phil on is there is any impact to free cash flow particularly working capital from programmatic a big year-over-year swing in working cap that impacted free cash flow just wanted to see if that had to with programmatic? Programmatic no not at all.
Okay.
And our relation with Facebook has been outstanding.
They have been – they have given us a great deal of resources associated with the projects we are working on together and relationship between Omnicom Annalect and Facebook is very very strong.
We are good partners.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yes one more.
I think given the timing operator of the market open I think we have time for one more call.
Thank you.
Our final question today will come from line of James Dix with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Just one follow-up on your growth outlook for 2015 John you mentioned the potential impact in the U.S.
from lower energy prices just curious whether you are seeing any impact on the client budget planning so far or is that just something you expect to see if those lower oil prices continue.
And then secondly just longer-term John you also mentioned you expect an accelerating shift to digital.
Some of your senior operating management has been public about trying to get clients to think about moving more of their budgets to video in particular just curious to what is your view is of the potential impact on television budget since that’s really biggest source of spending for most of your clients globally and how do you think that dynamic plays out of the digital shift? Thank you? The first part of your question gas prices at this point we haven’t seen clients come in with new budgets as a result of it.
It just seems the current gas prices from where we said is like a tax break for the American consumer.
And if history bears out that consumer will be out spending money.
Clients will anticipate and react to that as it becomes reality later and I think later throughout ‘15.
At least we are hopeful that that’s going to be the case.
And the second part of your question I am sorry I didn’t write it down can you repeat the second part? Sure just what you think the impactions are in particular for TV budgets given your commentary that you think the shift to digital could be accelerating over the longer term and some public commentary by some of your senior operating management the clients should be thinking about shifting more of their budget to video in particular? Yes.
Our folks too believe that there will be a shift – a greater shifts or continuing shift to digital or really streaming type of activities.
The device in which it gets streamed on is not as important to us so we don’t focus on it.
So there are lot of TV owners that own media owners that own ultimate channels or own content that would be interested in order to get it to be streamed.
So I am not expert enough to comment in general on the TV business but I do see anything that can be streamed on whatever device you have to stream it on that’s where I see the increase coming.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody for joining the call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Omnicom First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to introduce you to today’s host for today’s conference call Vice President Investor Relations Shub Mukherjee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our first quarter 2015 earnings call.
On the call with me today is John Wren President and Chief Executive Officer; and Phil Angelastro Chief Financial Officer.
We hope everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release we have posted on our website at www.omnicomgroup.com both our press release and the presentation covering the information that we will be reviewing this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I have been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that we have included at the end of our Investor Presentation.
And to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and that actual events or results may differ materially.
I would also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom’s performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation material.
We are going to begin this morning’s call with an overview of our business from John Wren.
Then Phil Angelastro will review our financial results.
And then we will open up the line for your questions.
Thank you Shub.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
I am pleased to speak to you about our first quarter results.
As I am sure you have seen Omnicom had a solid first quarter with organic growth of 5.1% giving us a strong start to the year.
We also met our margin targets for the quarter and are on track to meet our internal targets for the full year.
As reported in February the strong U.S.
dollar versus other currencies in the world will have a negative impact on our results for 2015.
In the first quarter 44% of our total revenue was derived from markets outside the U.S.
FX reduced our non-U.S.
revenue by $226 million represent a 13.9% of international revenue and 6.5% of our total revenue.
It is important to point out that our non-U.S.
operations are naturally hedged as both revenue and expenses are in the same currency.
As a result primary impact of these FX movements is in our dollar reported revenue and earnings.
Phil will provide more details about the impact of the FX on our results later in the call.
Our operational results excluding the impact of currencies were excellent during the quarter.
More specifically looking at organic growth by region North America was up by 4.8% primarily driven by brand advertising and more specifically our media operations.
Our U.K.
growth was very strong at 9.3% reflecting solid results across our portfolio of agencies and discipline.
Euro markets showed improvement and there are signs of stability in most countries in the region.
Growth during the quarter was 2.7%.
France had slightly positive growth Germany continued to be positive and Spain performed very well while the Netherlands remained negative.
Outside the Euro markets Czech Republic Russia and Turkey outperformed during the quarter.
Although results in Euro market this quarter is somewhat encouraging the pace of growth is still somewhat sluggish across the region.
We are hopeful that the ECB actions and other structural reforms will be successful and help restore growth in the region.
Turning to Asia it was up 6.7% with most markets performing very well including Australia China India Korea Singapore and Thailand.
And Latin America saw growth of 3.4% with strong growth in Brazil and Mexico offset by a client loss in Chile.
Our ability to consistently win more than our fair share of new business has helped us deliver our organic growth.
For the quarter and as we recently announced we has some very good wins including the consolidation of Wells Fargo Media and Digital business at OMD and organic.
TBWA was awarded Thomson Reuters Travelers and the Royal Caribbean business during the quarter.
And just last week Bacardi announced the global consolidation of their creative and media across all their brands with BBDO and OMD.
These are just the few of the key wins and there are many more throughout the company.
I want to congratulate all of our agencies and people for their ongoing success on this front.
Looking at our bottom line despite the currency impacts on the U.S.
dollar our net income was up just over 2% and our average share count was down over 5% from the prior year.
The combined result was an increase in EPS of almost 8% or $0.83 per share for the quarter.
Overall we had solid organic growth.
Our margins remained strong and in line with our expectations and we are on track to meet our targets for 2015.
Before turning the call over Phil I would like to make a few comments on what we are seeing in the industry and how our strategies allow us to achieve consistent financial results.
As I have discussed in our previous calls our industry is undergoing a major transformation as new digital tools and platforms emerge with media and technology evolving at an accelerating pace.
As a result we are moving from marketing to broad audiences to marketing to people.
A recent example of this trend in U.S.
is the direction linear TV is headed.
In the last few months we’ve seen announcements from Apple DIRECTV Dish HBO NBC Sony and others on the launch of some form of web streaming service.
These announcements further demonstrate consumers’ desire to access content where they want it on the choice of their device and on their timetable.
Another consequence of the rapid transformation of the industry is the huge amount of data that has been generated from new marketing technologies and platforms.
As said before that an idea is brilliant only if the idea is both brilliantly executed and grounded in a meaningful consumer insight because the volume of data is important our ability to drive results.
Doing such is the real value we bring to the table.
As marketers our people fundamentally meet connect brands with consumers using all relevant insights and across all platforms and devices.
With the increasing complexity of the marketing landscape our clients demand for our services is only increasing.
As you know Omnicom has several core strategies to drive growth in this environment.
These strategies are focused around the continuing improving and developing our talent enhancing our capabilities in new markets and in driving ideas and creativity through consumer insights.
In short we need to ensure our people to understand and apply new technologies in their creative thinking across disciplines and we need to invest in tools and platform that enable our people to drive insight and execute marketing programs on behalf of our clients across all mediums.
To achieve this our strategy has been for our agencies to invest in developing digital capabilities from within.
For example our media agencies are reinventing themselves into technology and analytics driven businesses.
Our creative agencies are building capabilities and using insights to produce new types of creative content.
And our PR agencies are now experts in navigating social media channels.
We are also continually investing in the reach and functionality of our tools and platforms.
All of our agencies from PR to media to advertising and CRM have access to analytics -- centralized analytics and technology platforms.
Of course technology is not enough.
You need smart talented people who know how to use it.
It is here that I think Omnicom truly leads our industry.
Omnicom University which is run in partnership with Harvard Business School and is considered one of the foremost executive education programs in our industry has digital skills training and strategy embedded in all aspects of the curriculum.
And at the local level our networks and agencies do an excellent job of training and development within the context of their specific disciplines.
For example BBDO and proximity have a practice called Digital Lab which leverages blogs white papers seminars and data hackathon to keep their people on the leading edge of developments in both digital and interactive marketing.
This enables them to apply their latest knowledge in their planning and creative processes.
Similarly our media network Omnicom Media Group has a rigorous program of online and in-person course work for all their people.
Omnicom also co-hosts regular training summits for all of our agencies in the United States Europe and in Asia in partnership with companies such as AOL Facebook Google Twitter and Snapchat where our people are able to experience the latest technologies about rolling the marketplace.
This training is critical.
It is our way to ensure that our talent around the globe has the technology know-how and digital insights needed to deliver solutions for our clients.
In summary we are heading into 2015 from a position of strength.
We are on track to meet our full year growth targets and have made great strides against our key strategies objectives.
Omnicom continues to be an industry leader embracing new technologies and delivering outstanding creative results.
I will now turn the call over to Phil for a closer look at the numbers.
Phil? Thank you John and good morning.
As John said our businesses have continued their strong operating performance delivering against their financial and strategic objectives and maintaining their focus on meeting the needs of their clients.
Our organic revenue growth for the quarter of 5.1% was above our expectations.
While our underlying businesses continued to perform well the negative impact of FX continues to create a considerable headwind on our revenue.
This quarter the impact of FX reduced revenue by 6.4% or $226 million.
And as was the case last quarter FX was negative across every one of our significant foreign markets.
As a result an inclusive of the slightly positive impact from our net acquisition revenue for the quarter was about $3.5 billion down nine-tenths of a percent versus Q1 last year.
I will discuss our revenue growth in detail in a few minutes.
FX also had a negative affect on our EBITDA for the quarter which decreased $2.1 million to $405 million versus our reported figure of $407 million in Q1 last year.
However because the vast majority of our expenses are denominated in the same local currencies as our revenue and currencies in virtually all markets were down the negative impact of FX on our operating margins was not significant for the quarter.
Additionally we continue to see the positive impact of our efforts to increase efficiencies throughout the organization.
EBITDA margin for the quarter was 11.7% up 10 basis points versus Q1 2014.
And operating income or EBIT decreased $5 million to $378 million and our operating margin of 10.9% was unchanged versus Q1 2014 primarily due to the year-over-year increase and the amortization of our intangible assets resulting from our recent acquisitions.
Now turning to the items below operating income.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $34.2 million down $4.8 million versus Q1 of 2014 and up $4.2 million from the fourth quarter.
As compared to Q1 of last year net interest expense was down $4.8 million primarily due to positive impact of a floating interest rate swap we entered into during May and September of 2014 as well as the small increase in interest income from our cash management efforts partially offset by the additional interest expense related to the issuance last October of $750 million of 10-year senior notes.
Versus the fourth quarter the increase in net interest expense reflected a full quarter’s interest on the senior notes issued during October of last year as well as the reduction in interest income earned by our international treasury centers in Q1 when compared to Q4 driven by lower cash and working capital level which are typical after year end.
Our quarterly tax rate of 32.8% is in line with our current tax rate projection for 2015.
Earnings from our affiliates was slightly negative during the first quarter.
Any allocation of earnings for the minority shareholders and our less than fully owned subsidiaries decreased by $1.8 million to $20.7 million primarily due to the purchase of minority interest in certain subsidiaries in 2014 as well as FX because of significant portion of our less than fully owned subsidiaries are located outside the U.S.
As a result net income was $209.1 million that’s an increase of $3.6 million or 1.8% versus Q1 last year.
Turning to slide three.
The remaining net income available for common shareholders for the quarter after the allocation of $2.8 million of net income to participating securities which for us are the dividend paying unrestricted shares held by our employees was $206.3 million an increase of 2.4% versus last year.
You can also see that our diluted share count for the quarter was $247.4 million which is down 5.4% versus last year as a result of the resumption of our share buyback program during the second quarter of 2014.
As a result diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.83 per share an increase of $0.06 or 7.8% versus Q1 2014.
Turning to slide four.
We shift the discussed to our revenue performance.
First with regard to FX on a year-over-year basis in the first quarter the U.S.
dollar continued to strengthen against every one of our major currencies.
The decrease in value of the euro had a largest translation impact on our revenue.
But all currencies weakened significantly year-over-year versus the U.S.
dollar during the quarter.
This decreased our revenue for the quarter by $226 million or 6.4%.
The decline in the value of the euro represented approximately 45% of the total FX impact.
Other non-euro currencies in Europe were approximately 15% and the U.K.
pound was another 15% of the total FX impact.
Looking ahead considering the steep decline in the value of all major currencies against the U.S.
dollar the freights continue to stay where they are.
FX could negatively impact our revenues by approximately 7.5% during the second quarter and approximately 6.5% for the full year.
That being said with the current volatility in currency markets it’s hard to pinpoint what will happen to FX rates over the remaining eight plus months of the year.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $14 million driven by our acquisitions in Latin America Europe and here in the U.S.
over the last 12 months.
And finally organic growth was positive $179 million or 5.1% this quarter.
It was another quarter with solid organic growth across all of our major markets with a few exceptions.
The primary drivers of our growth this quarter included continued excellent performance across our media businesses driven by the continuing expansion of our media offerings and new business wins the most recent being Wells Fargo and Bacardi early in the second quarter.
Our full service healthcare businesses in our CRM and PR categories turned in solid performances this quarter.
The continuation of the strong performance in the U.K.
across most of our businesses as well as excellent performances in the emerging market this quarter including Brazil Mexico India Thailand and our Middle East agencies.
In the euro markets overall organic growth was positive including France for the first time in a while.
And across the Asia Pacific region our performance was strong.
On slide five we present our regional mix of business.
During the quarter the split was 60% from North America 10% for the U.K.
16% for the rest of Europe 10% for Asia Pacific with the remaining 4% being split between Latin America and Africa and the Middle East.
In North America in which the U.S.
and Canada turned in solid performances we had organic revenue growth of 4.8% again primarily driven this quarter by the performance of our media full service healthcare and PR businesses.
Turning to Europe U.K.
once again had a very strong quarter.
The rest of the Europe was up 2.7% led by our agencies in Germany and Spain as well as the positive performance of our non-euro markets in Europe.
The Netherlands and Italy were again negative for the quarter and France crossed into positive territory this quarter albeit slightly.
We are still cautiously optimistic about Europe as we had further in to 2015 especially in view of the macroeconomic changes being pursued in the region.
Asia Pacific was up 6.7% with strong performances from most of our major Asian markets including China India Japan Singapore and South Korea with one exception being Hong Kong.
Latin America overall was up 3.4% organically.
Positive performance in Brazil which faced difficult comp versus Q1 of last year as well as Mexico was tempered by continued weakness in Chile.
As we mentioned on the last few calls the decrease in Chile was related to the loss of the significant local client in that market which we will finish cycling through in the second quarter of 2015.
In the Africa and the Middle East regions although off a small base was up 10.6% led by a strong quarter from our businesses in Qatar the UAE and South Africa.
Slide six shows our mix of business for the quarter which again was split evenly between advertising and marketing services.
As for their respective organic growth rates brand advertising was up 7.7% and marketing services overall was up 2.7%.
Within marketing services CRM was up 2.6% almost all of our categories within the CRM discipline were up a bit year-over-year.
Public Relations was up 3.1% and Specialty Communications was up about 2.6% on the strength of our full service healthcare businesses.
On slide seven we present our mix of business by industry sector.
There were no meaningful changes in this mix during the quarter despite the significant impact of FX which was a good indication of the diversity of our portfolio of clients.
Turning to our cash flow performance on slide eight.
In the first quarter we generated $322 million of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
As for our primary uses of cash on slide nine dividends paid to our common shareholders increased to $126 million reflecting the 25% increase in our quarterly dividends that was approved in the second quarter of 2014.
Dividends paid to our non-controlling interest shareholders totaled $25 million.
Capital expenditures were $38 million.
Acquisitions including earn-out payments and net of proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $32 million and stock repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $256 million.
Since we restarted our share repurchase program in mid May post the termination of the merger we spent about $1.25 billion purchased about 17.4 million shares net.
All in we outspent our free cash flow by about $156 million in the quarter.
Turning to slide 10 focusing first on our capital structure.
As a reminder we issued $750 million in 10-year senior notes a 3.65% during the fourth quarter of 2014.
This coupled with the $75 million adjustment to our debt carrying value related to the in-the-money amount of our interest rate swap as required by U.S.
GAAP increased our total debt to $4.6 billion as of March 31 while our net debt position at the end of the quarter was $3.1 billion.
The increase in our net debt of $1.1 billion over the past 12 months was driven primarily by the use of cash in excess of our free cash flow of $681 million as well as the negative impact of FX translations on our cash balance over the last 12 months of approximately $415 million.
Net debt increased by $891 million compared to year end as a result of the negative impact of FX translation on our cash balances of approximately $140 million the use of cash in excess of free cash flow for the quarter of $155 million and the typical use as a working capital that historically occurred in our first quarter.
Although our net debt has increased our ratios remain very strong.
Our total debt to EBITDA was 2.1 times and our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.4 times.
And due to both the decrease in our interest expense and the increase in EBITDA our interest coverage ratio improved to 12.9 times.
Turning to slide 11 we continue to successfully manage and build the company through a combination of prudently priced acquisitions and well-focused internal development initiatives.
For the last 12 months our return on invested capital increased to 18.6% and return on equity increased to 36.3%.
And finally on slide 12 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders since 2004.
The line on the top of the chart shows our cumulative net income from 2004 through Q1 2015 which totaled $10.2 billion.
And the bars show the cumulative return of cash to shareholders including both dividends and net share repurchases the some of which during the same period totaled $11.2 billion for a cumulative payout ratio of 109%.
And that concludes our prepared remarks.
Please note that we have included a number of other supplemental slides on the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point we are going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Excuse me Operator -- just I forget to mention -- before we start the questions we are happy to have Daryl Simm CEO of Omnicom Media Group with us here today for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
Our first question today comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani representing JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
John I think in your opening remarks I think you mentioned that you are on track to meet your internal target.
I am sure if that was the margins or just organic growth or just in general.
I guess my question is can you update us on I guess your targets for organic growth for the year and also for margin if that was what you’re implying? Sure.
This is terribly conservative Alexia I think from the point of view that with currencies moving and the changes around the world we’re very comfortable by keeping our revenue target at 3.5% and -- whereas I am not 100% ready to forecast margins for the balance of the year our internal goal starting now for the second quarter is to hold our margins from what they were the prior year.
And then any impact if you can highlight -- I am sorry if I missed this the impact on a programmatic on the organic revenue growth rate in the quarter? Yes.
Alexia the programmatic business grew sequentially from Q4 to Q1 by about 10%.
Okay.
And then since you have Daryl in the room just one more and maybe Daryl can update us on I guess what you’re seeing generally in advertising trends going into the second quarter I guess any commentary about upfront would be great? Thank you.
Well it’s still -- Alexia still early from in terms of confirmed client budgets for the upfront of course.
But on the other hand we do have expectations and the expectations are that the trends that we’ve really seen I would say over the past 18 months or so are going to continue.
And what that means on balance we’ve seen of course above average growth in digital and that’s been driven by premium video which we see continued increased interest.
And on the TV upfront side I think we should expect a continuation of the kind of cautious approach that we saw this past year between upfront and short-term naturally.
Some clients are going to want to secure specific properties particularly if they have initiatives during the year.
But outside of that we see a somewhat cautious approach.
For those of us that have been following the upfront for a long time I think we are used to the past where the upfront was really a selling time for the entire year that set the market and it really has become I think the beginning of the annual sale season.
And it’s an important part of it that’s the beginning of the year -- of the sale season.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you.
I want to follow up on some of the kind of the broad thematics.
I think John opened with resisted temptation to drill down further on the quarter.
And I think used opportunity to ask some sort of bigger picture questions here.
And it seems to me that as we speak with industry players on the advertiser side the agency side the media operating side the biggest thing now I will talk about in terms of technology offering us and we’re really beginning to see it is kind of more efficient achievement of reaching impressions we target right.
That’s the part of all this.
And in the long run people really seem to think that advertisers will increase budgets as long as the return on investment is positive.
But in the short run I am not so sure there seems to be such pressure on the multinational public companies with their FX pressures and dealing with shareholders that I don’t -- I am not really sure how much of that efficiency they are reinvesting.
And how do you feel about that right now? Do you think clients are redeploying the savings that you’re bringing them in terms of the efficiency of reach or they sort of banking it? And how do you see that developing over time? Thanks for the long question.
Yes.
Sure.
I would say many clients are reinvesting those efficiencies and there are few and that as you suggested have other challenges which they put in front of them they are still supporting their brands but maybe not to the level that of the efficiencies.
I think clients start -- each brand starts with targets and goals and objectives that they have to reach.
And if we’re able to assist them in achieving those targets in a more efficient way which is the hope the money doesn’t always have to be reinvested back directly into advertising.
For the most part that’s not a bad thing for an Omnicom.
The principal way that we earn our revenues and profits are really in helping clients navigate through the complexity of this new marketplace and where audiences are how to reach them how to obtain quality content so they’ll be interested in it.
So where something which might have been invested in say traditional TV in the past if we found an alternative way to get that audience for less money our part of that might have increased whereas the traditional TV seller might not have -- might see the decline in their sales.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question today comes from the line of Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
It’s Tim Nollen from Macquarie.
I wanted to ask about your comments on the upfront market the TV market.
Clearly seeing some of the changes coming you talk about a lot more streaming activity going on.
I wonder if you could talk about from the agency perspective from Omnicom’s creative and maybe from volume perspectives what are doing that might be a little bit different this year with the TV companies to work beyond just the TV ad sale into a broader behavior or targeting ad sale incorporating TV and digital viewing? Daryl you might want to try this one? Yes absolutely.
I mean this is something we’re very interested in.
In fact as we look at video video is across a number of different platform some of it coming from the so-called traditional providers others coming from full episode providers like Hulu others coming from more pure digital plays like the YouTube the Yahoo’s the AOL’s and what not.
But as we go into sale season what we’re seeing are real initiatives that are coming from some of the more traditional providers in terms of not just offering of digital video but offering of -- I would say packages or ideas and concepts that allow us to bridge between -- more aggressively between the conventional sale and the digital capability and the digital products that they now have.
And I anticipate that that’s going to be an ever more significant part of the conversations going ahead.
And we’ve certainly seen coverage over the past few days of I think leaders of major media companies discover and they like talking about that very concept.
And it’s something that both our clients and we as agencies are very interested in discussing how we extract more value for our clients using that kind of approach.
So does that mean -- you think maybe that what we consider traditional definition of TV advertising they become our archaic.
I mean it’s -- how content they consumed? And 'TV' lose a share of ad revenues that that might not necessarily matter as long as there more and more dollars been placed across different points of viewership is that a fair assessment? Yes.
I think from a high level that’s exactly right.
But you also need to consider that when we look at movement of video it’s not necessarily exclusively away from television simply because its site sound and motion.
Advertisers look at their plan and their strategy to reach consumers holistically and they are zero basing it year-on-year increasingly as opposed to simply looking at it within a bucket called television and reallocation.
It’s coming from a number of different sources.
So I think we have to look at the whole environment in a much more fluid basis than we had in the past as you assess those kinds of company.
Great.
Thanks.
Can I ask one more question please it’s totally unrelated? John you’re talking about your emphasis on training.
It struck me on these things a bit more about you’re trending focus on economy universe at this time in the previous calls.
I just wonder how you look at an organic development organic talent development versus acquisition which have been fairly slow.
I don’t know if it’s an apples-to-apples comparison or if you can maybe talk a bit more about that please and your expenditure of capital on that? Sure.
Well training we opened Omnicom University in 1995 and it’s been dedicated through recessions to good times to bad times.
So we at the top put a lot of time and attention into training and developing our people.
And that is also true if you go to each one of our major subsidiaries.
With the environment and the changes in the environment what we started in ‘95 is more important today than it’s ever been [Indiscernible].
Not only do our data sciences and I’d say your people need to keep up with all the changes that are going on our creative people our account people everyone of our employees has to be very current in terms of watch out there how it can be used to creatively create the tools and products that we need.
So we’re very pleased to have the foundation that we have and we keep it adjusting and adding to it.
And that asset which was developed in ‘95 for a long time was really principally based just in the U.S.
Over the last couple of years we’ve taken that throughout our entire global portfolio and we’ll continue to do that.
And I forgot the first part of your questions.
Acquisition? Acquisitions.
We just formed the new dedicated acquisition group one that we even had in several years.
And we’re looking at quite a number of opportunities probably on a more formal basis than we have in the last several years.
And so I expect over time we will be doing more but nothing -- no big banging type of things.
Sensible acquisitions -- midsized that fit what we see as our strategic growth areas both in the United States in certain product areas and in certain key emerging markets.
Yeah.
I mean just to add on that I think we’ve always been consistent in saying and it still holds true.
But as we approach our capital allocation process to the extent that we can find more acquisitions that need or fit in strategy requirements we’re going to try and do more acquisitions in anyone given year than less.
We don’t have a fixed box of acquisition dollars and/or share buyback dollars that we intend to spend going into a year.
So I think the pipeline is good and to the extent we can do more than we’ve done in the past and in a particular year we will.
But to the extent that we don’t find deals that meet our strategic requirements or the fit requirements then we’ll continue to operate as we have.
And to give you a very timely example when we’ve done with this call my next two hours after that is with an acquisition candidate.
Great.
Thanks very much for the color.
Our next question today comes from the line of Bill Bird with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I might have missed it John but could you give the net new business figure for the quarter and maybe speak to just the new business pipeline overall? Thank you.
So Phil you have the number? Yeah.
The number was just below $1.1 billion for the quarter.
That doesn’t include -- does not include the most recent Bacardi one.
In terms of the pipeline it’s pretty good.
We have one or two.
We’re going to wind-up defending but for the most part the people and client -- potential clients we are talking to we feel very good about it.
It’s changed here little bit.
You still get formal bids and competitions but increasingly we are getting assignments as we did like in Bacardi which did not require a bid.
There was a consolidation with certain objectives that approved.
We are going to help that company reach.
So it’s healthy always could be.
We have a very good track good record.
So the more or somebody else business that goes into review yeah the more -- the better opportunity is for us to win.
So but it’s pretty decent though.
And what are your current thoughts on the phasing of your stock buybacks and your leverage? Are you at a level of leverage that’s consistent with your target or could you see it going higher? I think our leverage is probably right where we have historically been right around that.
And our focus is primarily on maintaining our rating at that principal focus in terms of how we look at our capital structure.
So I think it’s probably safe to say that you shouldn’t expect to see the next 12 months in terms of buyback activity to be anywhere similar to the last 12 months.
Over the last 12 months we’ve bought back about a 1.250 billion of stock.
So we have some catching up to do as we had discussed last May.
I don’t think you can expect the activity be at that level.
Certainly we will continue to look at it in context of our free cash flow as far as continuing to pay dividend.
What acquisitions are out there that we do endeavor to do is going to reduce the number.
But certainly the activity prospectively as we look at the next 12 months is going to be down relative to the last 12 months.
Thank you.
We will go to line of John Janedis representing Jeffries.
Please go ahead.
John since your last call there has obviously been a lot of talk around rebates and general business practices across the industry? Can you remind us to what extend you use them and the transparency with clients? I am just try to understand the risk if any to Omnicom? Yeah.
I’ll let Daryl -- better I’ll let Daryl who heads the group answer that first and then I will add my comments.
Right.
Well there’s certainly been a lot of coverage on it.
But certainly from our standpoint our media agencies in the U.S.
don’t seek rebates and the U.S.
of course is not a rebate based marketplace from a negotiation standpoint.
So in terms of our media agency clients in the U.S.
they receive all value that gets negotiated on their behalf.
Whatever that form is whether it’s discount whether it’s other quantitative benefits whether its qualitative benefits.
And they are negotiating in a very competitive marketplace.
So our buyers are pushing hard to frankly extract maximum value out of those vendors in order to meet our individual client expectation.
And of course all of the clients that we engage with we have comprehensive contracts that govern not only the services but we provide them.
But they specify performance requirements as well.
So that’s kind of cornerstone of trust I think in terms of how we run our business.
And I am happy for the question because there has been a lot of innuendo and comments against the industry and we know how we operate and have consistently operated.
So clearing the air on this is a positive thing.
One other thing is we are fully participating I think the ANA after having allowed that presentation to occur and there is now I think a working group between the ANA… And the AAAA’s.
… and the AAAA’s to yeah to go through this… Yeah.
To go through the presentation that we have provided at the ANA.
It was somewhat odd to me that no specific allegation was came against anybody even though in that presentation that had redacted contracts and other things.
So we are little bit confused.
We don’t find it helpful.
So as quickly as jointly the ANA and the AAAA’s can get to the conclusion the better off we will all going to be.
Yeah.
Thanks John.
Maybe separately I think you have been somewhat cautious on the potential for U.S.-based multi-nationals to adjust budgets based on the moves in currency? Is there any evidence of that and do you think that risk has diminish somewhat for the year? There is a sense.
I don’t have the proof.
But U.S.
economy appears to me to be getting stronger and if history guides anything those budgets will increase as demand increases for and clients are going to support their strongest growth areas.
So I’m cautiously optimistic I am going to I am just not willing to publicly forecast the year more than what I can see at the moment.
Thank you very much.
And our next question is from the line of Craig Huber representing Huber Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I’ve a few housekeeping questions.
First programmatic you touched on this briefly but in dollars how much programmatic training efforts on that half of your clients help your revenue on year-over-year basis in the quarter please? In the first quarter that number was about $40 million of year-over-year growth in the quarter versus the first quarter of last year.
Okay.
Then also for your share buybacks in the quarter just on the same page what was the gross number of shares you bought back and what was the net number of shares please? Just give me a second to get that number.
So in the quarter the buyback number was in shares I think was 3.4 million shares.
Do you have that net number? I don’t have the net number handy but we can get that.
We can get that for you.
Okay.
And then also your comments on acquisitions I think you said that you have a new team that’s looking at acquisitions on the corporate level.
Should we -- and further you may start to do some larger acquisitions that just sort of tuck into -- you mentioned midsized.
In my mind you have been more doing tuck-ins over there over the many years maybe -- giving a much larger company looking maybe something little bit larger than you historically have done? Really it all comes down to the opportunity but the areas that we’re focused on are geographic in nature which means that there are not -- they certainly fit within our historical profile.
And different forms of partnerships over the last several years we’ve formed over 100 plus partnerships with various companies either in technology and some other areas.
In very rare instances but a couple we might be interested in becoming partners with some of those folks.
But if you’re characterizing what I said and thank you for asking the question they are going to be -- they are not going to be large.
They are going to be closer to our historic pattern than us developing any new pattern.
Let me put it that way.
Okay.
My last question please on the U.K.
you obviously had very strong performance of 9.3% of organic growth.
Is there anything one time in nature there? I just want to get little -- more clarity why it was so strong there and how do you feel about that market for your operations for the rest of the year? Do you think that’s possible to be up in the high single digits for the rest of the year? I think our view is especially in the first quarter which is relatively small quarter.
You can’t draw too many trends when you start narrowing it down to regions or disciplines et cetera.
So the more you narrow that number especially in a quarter a 90-day period we don’t think it’s going to drive the trend for that particular in this case country.
Our businesses in the U.K.
have been performing very well very consistently actually over some time.
And they have done very well in the market.
We expect them to continue to perform well as the year goes on.
But I -- I don’t think I’d say we expect based on our internal forecast today that we are going to be in the high single digits to low double digits for the U.K.
the rest of the year.
Some of that could be a bit of timing in the quarter.
Some of it could be just a fact that is first quarter and number is relatively small number compared to the number for the year.
So I wouldn’t draw too much of a trend other than the trend that our businesses in the U.K.
continue to perform well is one that we expect to continue.
I echo exactly what Phil said.
I guess we were aided by the change in management of one or two major subsidiaries and they’ve had -- they've gotten off to a great start.
So the market share and not the economy in the U.K.
Can I just sneak in one more question please? I appreciate your guys’ comments on the upfront market.
Talking of linear TV as you call it here for the upfront market do you guys think it’s possible this year that CPMs for traditional television in the upfront could actually be down this year? Obviously it’s a supply and demand market place and there are still supply issues in the linear TV market place that keep pressure on price beyond I think what you might reasonably normally expect defining your ratings would be less value at lower prices not necessarily the case.
I think the major part of that formula is going to be the balance between the long-term and short-term strategies that sellers take in this market place.
I would add I think that CPMs of course have one way to look at the market place.
I think the general trend here is a longer term trend is more significant and that is that generally speaking our clients are moving to -- many clients at least are moving to -- looking at business measures.
What do the aggregation of the investments that they are making across media types do to move their business with the data capabilities that we have? And they are somewhat less inclined to focus simply on what maybe called process measures which are the CPMs reaching frequencies is becoming increasingly an overall ROI discussion with our clients.
But specifically to your question on CPM I think the balance between long-term and short-term strategies from sales standpoint will dictate that.
Operator we are getting closer to the market open.
So I think we have time for one more call.
Thanks Craig.
All right.
Our final question today then will come from the line of Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I’d sort of pick up on the programmatic question maybe broaden little bit for Daryl and for Phil.
So the -- I think the comps got harder for you in the first quarter on programmatic but the number was bigger than at least we expected.
Can you assume that’s mostly are all domestic and if I strip that out it looks like the organic U.S.
growth maybe a little bit maybe around 3% maybe a little bit less which is slower than it’s been for the last three quarters? I don’t know if you’ve looked at it that way.
And if you think that’s the right math I just want to get your commentary on whether that business is bigger than you thought and what the impact is to your overall organic growth? And then I will -- since it’s a last question I will ask Daryl.
One of the things on programmatic we’ve heard is just a lack of premium inventory generally particularly around video.
The TV networks have been very reluctant to move into these platforms and even some of the digital players are nervous about it.
Can you just give us an update on whether you are seeing a change there and whether that’s something that you think can make this business grow even faster in 2015? Yeah.
Well I think it can certainly help the business grow faster.
But if we look at the programmatic business today there is no question that the great majority of it as it exists today is display-based business.
But the client requirements that we are seeing from the plans that we put together show a great demand for programmatic videos.
So it did cross my mind that the demand is there and where there is demand generally speaking we will see supply respond to that.
But the availability of -- I would say premium video is not simply a programmatic.
A question it goes beyond that as our clients looked at it both programmatically and as alternatives in the upfront marketplace because content and context are so important to the kind of clients that we have.
So if there is the -- whether it’s the content has the right affinity or whether it’s simply just wholesome enough for their brand is key and access to that kind of bringing video is key to growth.
There is no question of the demand therefore.
Yeah.
Thank you.
On the specifics to your question Ben so the programmatic growth was not just U.S.
only.
That’s pretty much went many markets throughout the world now.
We started that ramp up back in Q4 of ’13.
The growth in the quarter itself relative to Q1 of ’14 we thought was pretty good.
Again we are not really drawn too many trends on one particular quarter as it relates to the rest of the year.
I don’t think the first quarter is going to tell the story for the year.
But I’d say the programmatic business in Q1 of ’14 was probably still continuing to ramp up and the performance this year in the first quarter was good.
But I don’t think we’ve drawn any trends at that level of growth that that number is necessarily going to continue throughout the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you everybody.
Thanks for joining the call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to introduce you to the host for today’s conference call Vice President of Investor Relations Shub Mukherjee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
On the call with me today is John Wren President and Chief Executive Officer; and Phil Angelastro Chief Financial Officer.
We hope everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release.
We have posted on our recently relaunched website at www.omnicomgroup.com this morning’s press release along with the presentation covering the information that we will review this morning.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I have been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that we have included at the end of our Investor Presentation.
And to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and that actual events or results may differ materially.
I would also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom’s performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation material.
We’re going to begin this morning’s call with an overview of our business from John Wren.
Then Phil Angelastro will review our financial results.
And then we will open up the line for your questions.
Thank you Shub.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
I am pleased to speak to you this morning about our second quarter 2015 business results.
As I’m sure you have seen Omnicom had a strong quarter with organic growth up 5.3% and EBITDA margins increasing 10 basis points.
Based on our year to date results we’re on track to meet revenue and margin targets for the full year.
As we mentioned on our year end 2014 and first quarter 2015 earnings calls we expected the continued strengthening of the US dollar versus other currencies would create headwinds to our 2015 reported revenue and net income.
At the same time it’s important to point out that the majority of our non-US operations are naturally hedged with both revenue and expenses in the same currency.
In the second quarter the significant change in exchange rates versus the prior period resulted in a 7.1% or $275 million decline in reported revenue.
Year to date FX has reduced our revenue by $500 million.
On a constant currency basis EPS would have increased an additional 7% for both the quarter and the year.
Phil will provide more details about the impact of foreign exchange by market later in the call.
However at this stage if rates remain where they are today the impact will moderate during the remainder of the year.
Turning now to organic revenue growth North America increased 5.9%.
The main drivers were brand advertising which includes our media operations specialty healthcare and our CRM businesses.
The UK generated 5.4% growth.
The performance in the UK was broad based across all disciplines with the exception of our PR operations which had difficult comps versus the second quarter of 2014.
Organic revenue growth in our European region was 3.9%.
In the Euro Markets Germany continued to outperform with over 5% growth.
France was flat and the Netherlands was negative.
Overall though the euro-currency markets were up almost 4%.
Outside Euro Markets Turkey Poland and Sweden had above-average results.
Russia moderated to low single digit growth in the quarter.
Looking at Asia Pacific overall growth was 7.6%.
Among our large markets growth was strong in Australia China and Singapore.
Latin America was down 9.6% for the quarter.
A positive performance in Mexico was offset by weaknesses in Brazil and Chile.
The decline in Brazil is attributable to tough comps when compared to Q2 2014 World Cup spending and in 2015 from sluggish economic conditions.
Overall I’m pleased with our performance and where we stand halfway through this year.
I’d now like to make a few remarks on the macroeconomic picture in terms of things we’re watching in the back half of 2015.
First in the last few weeks we’ve seen another economic crisis play out in Greece.
Our Greek businesses are small and are expected to decline.
In 2014 annual revenue was about $12 million.
So the impact will not be material.
Second as I mentioned earlier China is still performing well for us and we remain bullish on China despite recent setbacks in property and stock markets.
Two other large markets Brazil and Russia are projected to have negative GDP growth in 2015 and face inflationary pressures that will take some time to reverse.
Brazil should however benefit next year as we start to focus on the 2016 Summer Olympic Games in Rio.
Lastly the US continues to improve with moderate GDP growth.
Hopefully anticipated actions by the Fed later this year will not cause any harm to the US recovery or emerging markets.
Turning to our balance sheet and cash flow generation they remain very strong enabling us to navigate and be opportunistic in these alpha markets.
Our consistent practice for the use of cash dividends acquisitions and share repurchases remains unchanged as does our commitment to a strong balance sheet and maintaining our credit ratings.
I’d now like to spend a few minutes discussing the unprecedented number of media buying and planning assignments that are currently up for a review.
There is more media business up for review from large marketers at the present time than I personally have ever seen before.
We estimate we’re about halfway through the agency pitches for these large assignments and I’m pleased to report we’re doing quite well.
We recently added new media assignments from SC Johnson which is a global win from one of our top competitors as well as Wells Fargo in the United States and Bacardi globally.
These and a number of other wins brought in annual billings of over $1.4 billion in the first six months of 2015.
And just last week we were awarded Unilever’s Australia media business following the win of their global search businesses a few months ago.
Throughout this unprecedented period it’s been important to note our current clients are our first priority.
Therefore we’ve been very selective in choosing which media assignments to pursue and have elected not to participate in many reviews 21st Century Fox Citibank Coke Cody and L'Oreal.
Looking at [things] still in progress I’ll classify them in two buckets.
First accounts we are defending.
On these assignments we have about $1.2 billion in media billings.
However in most cases we share these accounts with competitors and we estimate there is about $1 billion in upside potential if we’re successful in winning all of them.
Next we’re pursuing a few select new assignments where we have either no relationship or a very small one and where the upside is much greater.
However rather than trying to predict the outcome of these reviews we can confirm that we are in a good position to benefit from any changes these large marketers make.
With the abnormally high number of large media assignments it is an opportune time to look at what is behind many of them.
We know the media landscape has become more complex and many of the reviews are strategic reevaluations of agency suppliers.
Technology has radically changed media planning and buying.
The rise of digital data and analytics has given marketers the ability to more precisely understand how consumers are using media.
In areas such as programmatic buying and micro targeting clients want to make sure that they have the right partner with the right resources in this space.
We’ve also seen a number of available media channels increase exponentially in the past several years.
Over the past 12 months in particular we’ve seen a rapid growth in transition to online video really take hold.
With many more media channels and online video available to consumers on so many devices advertisers want to make sure they have the right strategies in place.
Given these areas of focus by our clients Omnicom is especially well positioned as a result of our investments in analytic and our data management platform.
Using this platform our people today are analyzing campaigns on a granular level for hundreds of Omnicom clients around the globe.
These are differentiating efforts for us and are proving to be a competitive advantage.
While these data and analytic platforms are more important than ever it is of course the talent of our people in putting them to work across all of our disciplines that really make the difference.
At this year's Cannes we proved once again we have the best people in the business producing award-winning campaigns for our clients.
Here are a few highlights demonstrating the depth and breadth of our talent.
Over hundred Omnicom agencies won nearly 250 Lions from approximately 50 different countries across 21 communication categories.
CDM one of the world’s leading healthcare agencies won the inaugural Healthcare Network of the Year award.
BBDO was the runner-up for Network of the Year and had a record Cannes with 29 agencies winning almost 120 Lions.
Omnicom Media Group and its flagship agencies OMD and PHD won over 60 Lions including three grand prixes for clients such as McDonald's Apple Under Armour and Harvey Nichols.
I want to congratulate all of our people and our agencies for their outstanding work.
Our investment in talent technology and partnerships are making a difference for Omnicom and our agencies.
They are critical to our success.
We will continue to strategically invest in these growth areas as the marketing environment becomes increasingly complex.
I will now turn the call over to Phil for a closer look at the second quarter results.
Phil? Thank you John and good morning.
As John said our businesses continued to deliver against their financial and strategic objectives and meeting the needs of their clients.
For the second quarter organic revenue growth of 5.3% was once again above our expectations as the US maintained its solid performance and we experienced strong performance in the UK Germany and Canada.
Our underlying businesses continued to perform well and we had good balance to our organic growth performance across our disciplines.
Exchange rates continued to create a considerable headwind on our revenue.
This quarter the negative impact of FX reduced revenue by 7.1% or $275 million.
And as has been the case since the fourth quarter of last year FX in the quarter was negative in all of our significant foreign markets.
Including the small net positive impact from our acquisitions net of dispositions revenue for the quarter was about $3.8 billion down 1.7% versus Q2 last year.
I’ll discuss our revenue growth in greater detail in a few minutes.
Turning to EBITDA and operating income EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 decreased by $8 million to $566 million versus $574 million in Q2 of last year.
Exchange rates also had a significant negative impact on our EBITDA for the quarter.
But since the vast majority of our expenses are denominated in the same local currencies as our revenues the negative impact of FX on margins was negative but not significant.
And operationally our efforts to increase efficiencies throughout the organization continued to make positive progress.
As a result the EBITDA margin for the quarter of 14.9% was up a bit versus Q2 2014.
Operating income decreased $9 million to $539 million for the quarter.
And although FX also negatively impacted operating income for the quarter and the amortization of our intangible assets resulting from our recent acquisitions increased on a year over year basis our total operating margin of 14.2% was flat versus Q2 of 2014.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $34.6 million up $900 000 versus Q2 of 2014 and up $400 000 from the first quarter.
Versus the first quarter the increase in net interest expense of $400 000 was the result of increased borrowing on our commercial paper facilities partially offset by additional interest income earned overseas.
Versus Q2 of last year the positive impact of the floating interest rate swaps we entered into during Q2 and Q3 of 2014 effectively offset the additional interest expense related to the issuance last October of $750 million of 10-year senior notes.
However net interest expense was up $900 000 due to a decrease in interest earned on our cash balances held by our international treasury centers primarily driven by negative FX translation as well as additional interest expense from increased US LIBOR rates on our CT borrowing.
Our quarterly tax rate of 32.8% continues to be in line with our current tax rate expectations for 2015.
As a reminder in Q2 of last year our quarterly reported tax rate of 31.1% reflected the impact of an $11 million tax benefit we recognized related to merger expenses incurred in 2013 which were required to be capitalized for tax purposes at the time.
Upon terminating the merger in May of 2014 we recognized the tax benefit related to those expenses.
So to better understand the year over year change on the tax line and in our tax rate in addition to the reported 2014 figures we’re also presenting our 2014 quarter and year to date numbers excluding the impact of this tax benefit.
Earnings from our affiliates of $4 million was flat year over year.
The allocation of earnings to the minority shareholders in our less than fully owned subsidiaries decreased $4.4 million to $28.8 million largely due to the impact of FX because a significant portion of our less than fully owned subsidiaries are located outside the US.
As a result net income for the quarter was just below $314 million.
That’s flat versus last year after excluding the impact of the tax benefit discussed above from Q2 2014’s results and it’s down 3.5% or $11.3 million versus our reported Q2 results last year.
Turning to slide 3 the remaining net income available for common shareholders for the quarter after the allocation of $3.9 million of net income to participating securities which for us are the dividend-paying unvested restricted shares held by our employees was $310 million.
You can also see that our diluted share count for the quarter was 245.7 million.
That’s down 4.8% versus last year and was driven by our share buyback program which we resumed during the second quarter of 2014.
As a result diluted EPS of the quarter was $1.26 per share up 2.4% an increase of $0.03 versus Q2 2014 reported EPS or up 5.9% an increase of $0.07 versus last year after excluding the impact of the tax benefit discussed above from Q2 2014’s result.
On slides 4 through 6 we provided the summary P&amp;L EPS and other information for the year to date period.
To save some time I’ll just give you few highlights.
Our organic revenue growth was 5.2% during the first six months of the year.
The significant FX headwind caused revenue to decrease by 6.8% and after factoring in the impact of acquisitions net of dispositions of 0.3%.
Revenue declined on a year-to-date basis by 1.3% to just under $7.3 billion.
While FX also negatively impacted EBITDA which decreased 1.1% to $971 million both our EBITDA and operating margins were unchanged when compared to last year.
Turning to taxes on page 5 our effective tax rate for 2015 of 32.8% is in line with our expectations while the reported 2014 tax expense and tax rate reflect the impact of the $11 million tax benefit we recognized in Q2 2014 related to merger expenses incurred in 2013 which became deductable after the termination of the merger.
As you can see similar to way we presented our Q2 results the comparative results for the six-month period are presented both including and excluding the tax benefit.
Excluding the impact of this tax benefit the tax rate for the six-month period in 2014 was 33.5%.
And our six-month diluted EPS was $2.09 per share which is up $0.09 or 4.5% versus 2014’s reported figure of $2 per share and up $0.13 or 6.6% versus EPS after excluding the impact of the tax benefit recorded in Q2 2014.
Turning to slide 7 we shift the discussion to our revenue performance.
First as I mentioned this quarter we balanced organic growth across all disciplines.
However the effects of FX more than offset their performance.
On a year over year basis in the second quarter the US dollar continued to strengthen against almost all of our major currencies.
This decreased our revenue for the quarter by $275 million or 7.1%.
The FX impact was greatest in our European markets.
The decline in the value of the euro and the pound represented nearly 60% of the FX decrease during the second quarter.
Looking ahead considering a steep decline in the value of all major currencies against the US dollar if rates continue to stay where they are FX could negatively impact our revenues by approximately 7% during the third quarter and approximately 6% for the full year.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $5 million.
While we’ve added businesses both in the US and in Latin America and Europe over the last 12 months we’ve also made some strategic dispositions during that period as well in EMEA and the US.
And finally organic growth was positive $204 million or 5.3% this quarter.
Again we had another quarter with solid organic growth across most of our major markets except for France the Netherlands and Brazil and we had good growth across our disciplines except PR which was up slightly in the quarter.
The primary drivers of our growth this quarter included continued excellent performance across our media businesses and solid growth in CRM.
Our full-service healthcare businesses driven by new business wins over the last few quarters posted double-digit organic growth in the quarter.
Our UK businesses continued to perform well across most disciplines and we also had excellent performances in the emerging markets this quarter including Mexico Turkey and our Middle Eastern agencies.
In the Euro Markets driven by strong performance in Germany and Spain overall organic growth remained positive.
And across the Asia Pacific region our performance was once again strong.
Slide 8 covers our year to date revenue performance.
The impact of FX reduced revenue by $0.5 billion over the first six months of 2015 or 6.8% while organic growth over that same period was 5.2%.
On slide 9 we present our regional mix of business.
During the quarter split of revenue was 60% from North America 10% UK 16% for the rest of Europe and 10% for Asia-Pacific with the remaining 4% being split between Latin America and Africa and the Middle East.
Turning to slide 10 in North America both the US and Canada turned in solid performances and we had organic revenue growth of 5.9%.
While the media businesses continued to perform well this quarter also saw a strong growth from our full-service healthcare businesses and CRM businesses in the region.
Turning to international markets the UK continued its strong performance this quarter except for our PR discipline which faced difficult comps versus Q2 last year.
The rest of Europe was up 3.9% led by Germany and Spain while France was flat and the Netherlands continues to lag negatively.
Our performance in the non-Euro Markets in Europe continued to be solid.
Before leaving Europe in Greece where the economic and political situation is uncertain we have a very small presence with revenues of less than 0.1% of our consolidated revenues.
So we do not expect much exposure.
But given the uncertainty would expect a continued decline in our businesses going forward.
The Asia Pacific region was up 7.6% with most markets performing well including China Australia and Singapore.
One market that lagged was Latin America which was down 9.6% organically.
The positive performance in Mexico was offset by weakness in Chile and Brazil.
In Chile the decline resulted from a significant local client loss in 2014 that we are now finished cycling through.
In Brazil the decline resulted from both the difficult comp when compared to Q2 of 2014 due to the World Cup and from general softness in that market.
And finally the Africa and Middle East region our relatively small in total was up 11.9% led by our businesses in the UAE and South Africa.
Slide 11 shows our mix of business for the quarter split equally between advertising services and marketing services.
As per their respective organic growth rates advertising services were up 6.4% or $125 million and marketing services were up 4.1% or $79 million.
Within marketing services CRM was up 4.3%.
Most of our categories within the CRM discipline were up a bit year over year with only sales promotion businesses down and our field marketing businesses close to flat.
Public relations was up slightly at 0.3% and specialty communications was up about 8% on the strength of the performance of our full-service healthcare businesses.
On slide 12 we present our mix of business by industry sector.
Comparing our year to date revenue in 2015 to last year's figures you can see there were no meaningful changes in this mix.
Turning to our cash flow performance on slide 13 in the first half of the year we generated $757 million of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
As for our primary uses of cash on slide 14 dividends paid to our common shareholders increased to $251 million reflecting the 25% increase in our quarterly dividend during Q2 of 2014.
Dividends paid to our non-controlling interest shareholders totaled $61 million.
Capital expenditures were $107 million up from last year due to an increase in leasehold improvements related to some recent real estate consolidations and acquisitions including earn out payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $65 million.
And finally stock repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plan totaled $386 million.
Since we restarted our share repurchase program just over a year ago post the termination of the merger we gave spent about $1.38 billion and purchased about 19 million shares.
All in we out-spent our free cash flow by about $113 million during the first six months of 2015.
Turning to slide 15 focusing first on our capital structure our total debt of $4.57 billion is down about $37 million from the first quarter mainly due to a decrease in the fair value adjustment to our debt carrying value as required by US GAAP related to the in-the-money amount of our interest rate swaps.
Our net debt position at the end of the quarter was $3.2 billion.
The increase in our net debt of about $690 million over the past 12 months was driven primarily by the use of cash in excess of our free cash flow of $254 million as well as the negative impact of FX translation on our cash balance over the last 12 months of approximately $402 million using period end spot rates.
Although our net debt has increased over the past year our ratios remain very strong.
Our total debt to EBITDA was 2.1 times and our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.4 times.
And due to both the decrease in our interest expense and an increase in EBITDA our interest coverage ratio improved to 12.9 times.
Turning to slide 16 we continue to successfully manage and build the company through a combination of strategic acquisitions as well as focused internal development initiatives.
Over the last 12 months our return on invested capital increased to 17.6% and return on equity increased to 35.9%.
And finally on slide 17 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders since 2004.
The line on the top of the chart shows our cumulative net income from 2004 through the second quarter which totaled $10.5 billion.
And the bar show the cumulative return of cash to shareholders including both dividends and net share repurchases the sum of which during the same period totaled $11.4 billion for a cumulative payout ratio of 109%.
And that concludes our prepared remarks.
Please note that we have included a number of other supplemental slides on the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point we are going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll first go to the line of Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
So I guess I wanted to start with capital allocation your acquisition activity seems to be fairly moderate at this point.
John wondering if you could update us on what you are seeing in the M&amp;A pipeline relative prices across the globe what your appetite is and whether that’s changed? And then a quick question on buybacks and dividends and the ratio and spread between those wondering if you have any updated thoughts on shareholder capital returns.
Thanks very much.
There are quite a few acquisitions that are in the pipeline and August and September I think many of the things that we’ve been working on will come to a final decision both on our part and that of the sellers.
We’re muted in the first half because as we were doing acquisitions we’ve also taken a couple of small companies that no longer fit the portfolio and we’ve divested ourselves that’s why you see the net number affecting our overall revenues.
The prices I would say the prices [are pretty dear] no one is giving anything away and certainly nothing we’re interested in purchasing.
But they’re not – we are still very disciplined in the way that we approach it and we have to make sure ourselves that we can extract the proper value before we’ll actually finish and close the deal.
So I’m hopeful there is a couple that we’ve been talking to which expand our presence in markets outside the United States and also a couple in media that I’m hoping that will get accomplished in the back half of this year.
But I’m not in control – without getting requisite about the price I’m not in control about how the process finishes out.
With respect to our capital program that really remains the same Peter.
First we plan to utilize our free cash flow really in three manners.
First to pay dividends; the second to pay for and hopefully increase the number of acquisitions we do and then share buybacks turn out to be the fall out the difference between the amount of cash we generate and taking care of those first two items.
There is no foreseeable change in terms of our attitude of what we’re planning to do.
Just one thing to add I think on the buyback front we certainly have come off the last 12 months of some increased activity probably higher than we’ve historically bought back mainly since we were out of the market for an extended period of time.
I think we don’t foresee going back to those levels the levels we were at in Q3 and Q4 of last year as well as Q2 of last year.
But depending on the timing of the acquisitions and what we close and what we don’t get closed that will have an impact on the buyback activity for the balance of the year.
Quick follow-up for Phil can you tell us what the contribution of digital media pass through was to the organic growth number for the quarter? Yeah so the growth in our Accuen business for the quarter was about $30 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Just two quick questions.
First one on the outlook for organic growth you’ve come in well ahead of our full year guide of 3.5% for the year in the first half of the year.
What should we expect in the back half any color there? And just following up to the earlier question about the programmatic contribution maybe if you could talk a little bit about how the impact is on profitability in the quarter? Certainly the over-achievement in organic growth that we’ve had in the first half versus what our original guess was for the year those will continue to pass through for the balance of the year.
We don’t expect to go into that.
And at this point until we have a little bit more clarity on a few things I’d say looking to the third quarter and the fourth quarter we’d still stay conservative and stay with the 3.5% back half growth of revenue.
And then in terms of the margins on the [indiscernible] pass through? I think we’re fine and are finding that the margins are as we described previously we expect that overtime as we get more scale that the margins in programmatic space are going to approximate our media margins overall and we’re going to end up with a normal margin contribution relative to the rest of our media businesses.
And I think we’re still on track to do that.
And then John if I could just follow-up on some of the commentary you had in your opening remarks about unprecedented set of media count reviews right now I think you highlighted that maybe one of the drivers might be the technology changes we’re seeing and the allocation decisions of media might be causing advertisers take a closer look at their media relationships would you say that’s sort of the main reason that you’re saying that lot of these reviews are coming into play? And if you would any commentary on possible pressure on margins just in maintaining a relationship do you have to [indiscernible] keep that relationship in review? Sure.
As you can imagine Alexia I’m not in the room when the picture is being made but I’m following them very closely with Daryl Simm and the other leadership people in OMG.
And despite all of the other noise and everything else that’s out there in the marketplace I really do think it’s been very consistent that clients are really reevaluating how they’ve done things in the past and they’re reevaluating their teams that they are doing with.
And we’ve been as I said I think we’re about halfway through the reviews that have been called it’s a guess but we think that will all be decided by October and it will be very interesting to see who the net winners are in this round.
So I’m very confident that with the amount of revenue we’ve already won and the few losses that we’ve suffered we’re well ahead of the game and looking out there should only be upside opportunity for us.
The second part of your question? I’m sorry.
Do you feel the industry not just Omnicom but the industry has to give better – some concessions or some better rates and fees in order to keep these media count when they’re up for review? Except for one client that we consciously elected to not pitch because of terms that they wanted we haven’t seen people raising forward and discounting things.
The clients are fairly sophisticated and they know that at the end of the day they’ll get what they pay for.
I think it has more to do with the complexity of the marketplace and it turns out to be a process that ultimately should be beneficial to us on my side of the table but it’s totally also very beneficial to the client because they challenge their own media folk to say listen we’ve been doing this this way up until now should we be changing the way that we’re planning or executing.
And we’re seeing clients rethinking their whole behavior.
So I don’t see – and in terms of the cost advantages it turns out that it’s an unprecedented time but the people who are using naturally are senior people and probably be just working a little bit harder than they were before all these pitches commenced.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Huber with Huber Research.
A couple housekeeping questions if I could.
How many shares did you buyback in the quarter please? Just give me one second Craig and I'll get that for you.
I think it's about 1.6 million a little over 1.6 million shares.
And then in terms of expectations for the full year should investors expect you guys not to outspend your free cash this year on dividends with small acquisitions and share buybacks but not to outspend free cash like you've done in some other recent years? I don't think we'd expect not to outspend but depending on the timing of some acquisitions that we're working on we'll probably come close in terms of an expectation of spending our free cash flow may be a little bit more and some things could change in the next six months between now and then.
But I don't think you should expect that we'll outspend it to any significant degree but we certainly will look to spend all the free cash flow by the end of the year and maybe a little bit more.
And then John question for you on all these media reviews going on right now is it your expectation everything is all said and done that yourself and the other three major players in the marketplace that these revenues just move back and forth between the four of you or do you think on a net basis a decent amount of that could actually get moved over to some smaller third-party perhaps programmatic players out there? No.
I fully expect that the four or five players that are out there will be the beneficiaries and suffer the changes that happen.
I don't see money being diverted to these small ad tech players at this point and certainly not from the reviews that are going on.
Our next question comes from the line of John Janedis with Jefferies.
Phil just one question.
With some of the changes you discussed I guess maybe you and John discussed from a client perspective and technology there's a narrative in the industry that there will be longer-term margin pressure and so if that's going to be the case can you talk about some flexibility you may have on the cost side of your business either on the salary or the OMG line? Sure.
I think you know from John's comments in the last question I think we're going into these pitches in particular looking to provide value to clients and for clients look at that value and realize that to get what they need and to get the best services that they're going to need competitively priced it.
We've approached the business and we'll continue to in approach the business looking for efficiencies internally and we've been down that path we're going to continue down that path.
We think we're pretty efficient but we think there's certainly room for improvement and we're pushing pretty hard on several fronts as it relates to that.
So we manage the business for the long-term.
We're going to continue to make the investments that we think need to be made and find the right balance of growth and profitability and returns and we're going to take whatever actions we think we need to get there.
Some of them are certainly longer term in nature; some of them are shorter term in nature.
But we expect to continue to manage the portfolio and maintain or improve over time our margin profile.
So we don't think this is really any new or dramatically different.
We've always realized we need to continue to push on the efficiency front.
We’re going to continue to do that so that we can continue to generate the returns that our shareholders are looking for and generate the margins that we think will allow us to continue to invest in the business and have sustainable growth and sustainable profits.
And just as examples that ongoing process which occurs we are in the area of real estate and payroll that's probably our largest next expense we have probably changed the living conditions of close to 12 000 people who work for us just in the first six months of this year in terms of moving from existing space which were legacy leases into more modern open plan spaces.
The net effect is you do become more productive when you're working like that and we’ve been able to on a net basis lower our future rentals by doing that.
There's items in areas like that going throughout the whole cost system within the company to try to become more efficient.
Maybe one quick one just on Accuen to what extent are there more markets to expand outside the US? And of the $30 million you referenced is there a meaningful piece of that international or is it mostly US in terms of the growth? I think you got to give me a minute on the split but I’m not sure I have it here I may have to get back to you.
But we've expanded over the last I'd say at this point 15 to 18 months to most of the significant markets outside the US where Accuen operates and where we see it operating.
There might be some opportunity for some of the smaller markets outside the US that we're going to continue to pursue but we're pretty much in any and all of the significant markets we expect to be in.
So I think we see opportunity for Accuen to grow both in the US and outside the US but there's a decent amount of the growth that's coming from the rest of the world.
And I can get back to you with a more specific number but it's probably this quarter say roughly around 50/50 US and outside the US.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
Two questions: one for Phil and one for John.
Phil obviously in the areas of analytics programmatic you’ve seen a big ramp up in your offering there over the past four or five years do you see a point where that starts to even off a little bit ease off a little bit rather simply as you move past the stage of getting that new business established or does really the increased demand keep that headcount growing at the same rate? And then for John you made a good point in discussing the media reviews earlier as how much everyone's somewhat conflicted out of certain pitches because of current client relationships.
Would you expect that because of that maybe the hold rate actually ends up little bit higher just because we've got so many of them going on at once? I have an opinion I just hesitate to speculate.
I think there will be some – even if there is a hold I do think there is a reevaluation of approach so on some of the very very large pieces of business that still aren't decided you might see adjustments to what – even if the same supplier holds onto it the activities that we're doing in the past and the activities that will be doing in the future.
But I would say that there will be some net change but in terms of I think the revenue of each of the larger holding companies there's not much.
When you look at it as percentage point there's probably only in the worst case a couple of percentage points which could possibly move.
And if they don't retain them it's only a couple of percentage points that the winner would gain.
It's just the state of the play at the moment.
They're all significant significant psychologically.
I don't know if that answers your question or not? Helpful.
A little color.
Thanks.
So on the analytics and programmatic front I think our perspective is its still early days.
Although we've been making investments for the last five years or so in our data and analytics platform Annalect and Accuen has been around now for in a sizable way for the last year and a half or so to two years.
We think it's still somewhat early days.
We expect the growth opportunities to continue in the future but as the businesses get bigger and the base gets bigger we're not going to be surprised if the rate of growth slows a bit just because of the math of the numbers.
But when you talk about the data and analytics side and Accuen we see some big opportunities there for using that platform to drive growth and drive insights through the rest of our lines of businesses not just through the media business and the programmatic space.
So we see some opportunities certainly in our CRM businesses and frankly the rest of our portfolio to utilize the data and analytics to actually drive some and find some meaningful insights that we can use and provide big ideas for our clients that are going to help us grow in areas other than just programmatic media.
So we're optimistic for the opportunities in the future.
A lot can change and will change as it has over the last few years here but we think we've got a great set of assets that we're going to be able to build on.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
John I just wanted to come back to your question to your comment on you referenced potential rate rises by the Fed.
Could you give us your thoughts on what does a rising rate environment mean for the ad market? And my understanding is that is often a response to rising inflation which means pricing power increases a little bit which is generally good for marketers and hence for agencies.
Maybe that's a little simplistic.
If you wouldn't mind just please explaining what a rising rate environment means.
Sure.
From your lips to God's ears I would like a little inflation back in this business.
It's a long long time since we've had it.
The problem is and I'm no economic expert the problem is it's been what six years since the Fed has been in these markets.
And there's been a lot of growth not so much in the industry but across the spectrum which has been effectively free for large companies that could access capital freely.
It's hard to gauge the disruption it might have in some of the emerging markets.
As we reinforce the strength of the dollar versus – through the interest rate mechanisms and actions versus other places in the world.
So does it have a direct impact on the capital structures or the ability for advertising industry to function? No.
And I think it will be a good long time because I think the Fed hikes when they come will be very gradual and take quite a period of time before they become impactful.
So it's just yet another unknown.
It's nothing that we fear is something that we watch and we try to gauge with our existing client base around the world.
Operator I think we have for time for one more quick question.
Thank you.
And that will be from the line of David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
I'll try and make it quick.
It's actually a follow-up I think to an earlier question on the call about wins and losses.
I think we've always viewed win some lose some right.
You win some you lose some.
You guys have a really strong platform.
Occasionally you lose and you usually make up for it over time.
I think the question is less about the structural issues of procurement getting more involved in programmatic and more about as a general rule do legacy clients tend to be more profitable than newly acquired clients given the infrastructure you've already invested in and historical pricing? Does a shift from legacy clients to newer clients impact margin in the same way it always might have or is it not an issue? It's not significant.
And you might if enough new business was won in a particular quarter you might see a minor blip because the least profitable time for someone in the agency business in dealing with the client is when we first acquire it because we have to gear up and put a team together and start to work.
And oddly enough some of the most profitable moments in the history of a client are after you’ve been put on notice.
But to answer your question I don't think it significantly moves the needle for anyone in the larger holding company type of environment.
Thank you all for joining the call.
We appreciate you taking the time.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
On the call with me today is John Wren President and Chief Executive Officer; and Phil Angelastro Chief Financial Officer.
We hope everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release.
We have posted on our website at www.omnicomgroup.com this morning's press release along with the presentation which covers the information that we will review.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I have been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that we have included at the end of our Investor Presentation.
And to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and that actual events or results may differ materially.
I would also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation material.
We are going to begin this morning's call with an overview of our business from John Wren.
Then Phil Angelastro will review our financial results.
Then we will open up the line for your questions.
Thank you Shub.
Good morning and thanks for joining us this morning.
I am pleased to speak to you about our third quarter 2015 business results.
As I am sure you have seen Omnicom had a strong quarter with organic growth up 6.1% ahead of our expectations.
Margins and net income were in line with our expectations and overall our operations continued to show steady progress in the face of challenging macroeconomic conditions and volatile markets.
As we had anticipated we continue to face significant currency headwinds in the quarter.
FX reduced our revenues by 7% or $272 million in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis the strong U.S.
dollar versus other currencies reduced our revenue by 7% or $773 million.
EPS for the quarter was $0.97 up from $0.95 in the prior year or about 2%.
On a constant currency basis EPS would have increased by approximately an additional 9% for the quarter and 8% for the year.
Looking forward we expect currency effects to moderate in the fourth quarter and into next year.
Phil will provide more details about the impact of foreign exchange by market and on our future results later in the call.
Turning now to organic revenue growth North America increased in excess of 6% reflecting strong performances and brand advertising media and our specialty healthcare business.
The U.K.
was up 9% which was broad based across our operations.
Our U.K.
business has consistently performed well which reflects the high caliber and diverse group agencies we have in that market.
Overall growth in Continental Europe was 4.5%.
In the Euro markets Germany was up mid-single digits Spain also outperformed while France and the Netherlands weighed on our results.
Outside the euro countries Russia and Poland performed well and most other markets were positive.
Moving to Asia-Pacific organic growth was in excess of 8% with solid performance throughout the region.
While our operations in China slowed a bit to mid-single digits we remain bullish and see a long runway of growth ahead.
We continue to see strong marketing spend in such categories as telecommunications travel and personal care.
Latin America was our most difficult region in the quarter with organic revenue declining almost 7%.
Mexico and Argentina had double-digit growth but this growth was offset by Brazil which is our largest market in the region.
Brazil's performance was affected by both the economy as well as difficult year-over-year comps.
While the current political and economic situation in Brazil is concerning there are opportunities to invest in growth.
The 2016 Summer Olympics should mitigate some of the risks in the short-term.
Our performance this quarter and for the year is reflective of the strategies we have in place to drive our growth.
These strategies help us meet rapidly changing needs of our clients by giving them access to the best people and the latest technologies when and where they need them.
First is attracting retaining and developing top talent.
Next expanding our global footprint and moving into new service areas.
Third is leveraging our data and analytic capabilities.
Finally we continue to deliver breakthrough creative ideas and solutions based upon meaningful consumer insights across all marketing disciplines and communications.
This morning I would like to discuss our progress against these strategies and also provide some updates provide an update on the media reviews and address recent industry concerns on topics of viewability and fraud in online advertising and transparency.
At Omnicom we have always strived to be a great place for great people to work.
It has been a priority to attract and retain the best talent and make sure they are continuously learning and being challenged.
Our agencies and networks do an excellent job of training and developing our people within the context of their specific disciplines.
Omnicom further supports this through advanced management programs at Omnicom University.
We just completed the 21<sup>st</sup> year of Omnicom University in the United States and have expanded the program to China and Europe.
This summer for the first time we hosted a joint education session with one of our large multinational clients which was a huge success.
Another aspect of achieving our talent development goals is creating a diverse and inclusive workforce.
Diversity at Omnicom and backgrounds experiences and perspectives is critical to ensuring we have the best talent.
It is not just a word or concept to us.
We have put diversity into action by creating groups programs scholarships that promote diversity and inclusion.
One barometer we use to measure our success is our performance and award shows.
Once again our agencies and networks continued their tradition of being the most creatively awarded companies in the world.
Let me just mention a few highlights from the Spikes Advertising Festival held recently in Singapore which is considered Con of Asia.
BBDO received top honor winning network of the year for the second year in a row.
DDB placed third BBDO and DDB have finished being top three networks for seven consecutive years.
Colenso BBDO won agency of the year.
All told 40 agencies in 12 countries contributed to nearly 150 Spike awards.
I want to congratulate all of our people for their outstanding work.
During the quarter we continued to expand our capabilities through internal investments in our agencies and service platforms specifically in the areas of production technology and content development.
Today's market complexity demands our agencies to produce evermore creative content that can be distributed quickly across different devices channels and markets.
To meet the increasing needs of our clients you may recall last year Omnicom formed eg+ worldwide a global implementation and production agency and since then it has expanded capabilities in various markets.
With over 1 400 employees in 14 countries eg has become a leader in leveraging the latest technologies to help global brands implement and localized creative content across video digital and print media channels.
The result is a broader and deeper service offering that fuses the best talent and the latest technologies and our efforts in this area will continue to expand and provide value to our clients.
Turning to the media accounts and review most of the high profile reviews should be decided by Thanksgiving.
As I discussed on our last call we have been very selective in choosing which media assignments to pursue and have elected not to participate several reviews including Citibank Coke Cody and L'Oreal.
In terms of our progress we have done pretty well.
We have added new media business from well-known advertisers such as SC Johnson and Bacardi globally Wells Fargo in the United States.
We have also successfully defended a number of accounts such as J.C.
Penney and GlaxoSmithKline adding significant assignments from Novartis.
These and a number of other win brought in billings of over $1.4 billion so far.
At this point we still have an opportunity to gain additional business as the remaining pictures come to a conclusion.
Annalect played a key role in each of our wins.
As a result of our investments early on in Annalect and its data management platforms we picked up a significant share of the new business in digital specifically around data and analytics.
Annalect is embedded in our accountings and is truly a differentiating asset for us.
Turning now to look at some of the issues facing our industry the growing scale of programmatic and online video advertising has led to valid concerns over fraud and viewability of online ads.
In other words how much of an ad is seen by an actual consumer and for how long.
One key factor in this area is independent verification.
Marketers and agencies are pushing publishers and rightly so to prove the ads are being seen by real people are effective in driving sales.
We believe that third-party verification is a fundamental requirement.
Publishers should not create their own homework.
For our part since 2013 we have been providing third-party verification services in the U.S.
our clients' programmatic and digital network buyers.
This has been invaluable and giving us the data and visibility we need to adjust publisher pricing based upon viewability rates.
To ensure that our clients receive the value they expect we recognize that digital publishers face a complex environment due to the very nature of their content or the device it is being delivered on.
In light of this our digital media leadership active on joint industry efforts such as IAC and tag [ph] to shape measurement banners.
This is especially important for ads delivered on mobile devices where standards are only now being discussed.
In sum the echo system is complex but the goal is simple to make sure advertises get what they pay for and we are working towards practical solutions to help move the entire industry forward.
Finally I also want to touch on the subject from earlier this year.
The joint task force of NA forays to create U.S.
media transparency standards.
We have been actively involved in this work over the past months and we are pleased with the progress in terms of collaboration and understanding between the advertiser and agency members.
We expect principles will be issued shortly and we support any constructive steps that increase advertiser confidence across our industry while encouraging competition and innovations.
In our conversations with our clients advertises were seeking more choices today in terms of service or performance requirements but this only underscores the industry's obligation to strict contract compliance which includes the return of any media rebates in the United States and disclosure of all of our services and various equity interests we may have.
From an Omnicom standpoint this is a fundamental to the essential trust between client and agency that our business is built on.
Before concluding my prepared remarks I would like to say that while I am pleased with our strategic and financial performance the remainder of 2015 has numerous economic and political challenges from Brazil China and the Middle East as well as potential actions by the Federal Reserve and other central banks.
With one quarter left to the year I am confident that we are on track to achieve our revenue and margin targets for full-year.
I will now turn the call over to Phil and he will take a closer look at the quarter's results.
Phil.
Thank you John.
Good morning.
John said our business has continued to deliver against their financial and strategic objectives and meeting the needs of their clients.
For the third quarter our organic revenue growth of 6.1% once again exceeded our expectations as the U.S.
continued its strong performance and we experienced solid growth in the U.K.
and Canada and across most of our Asia-Pacific markets as well as in several of the European markets.
Our underlying business has continued a solid performance.
Exchange rates continue to create a considerable headwind on our international revenue.
Again this quarter FX was negative in all of our significant foreign markets reducing our total revenue by 7.2% or $272 million.
When accounting for the small net positive impact from our acquisitions net of dispositions revenue for the quarter was about $3.7 billion down 1.1% versus Q3 of last year.
We will go over our revenue growth in detail in a few minutes.
Turning to EBITDA and operating income EBITDA for the third quarter of 2015 decreased by $6 million to $455 million versus $461 million in Q3 of last year.
As you would expect exchange rates also had a significant negative impact on our total EBITDA for the quarter and more significant than in the first six months of the year.
While the vast majority of our expenses are denominated in the same local currencies as our revenues essentially serving as a natural hedge in a few of our higher-margin markets including Canada Australia Brazil FX had a larger negative impact this quarter than earlier in the year and through the first nine months of 2015.
FX reduced our overall EBITDA margin by roughly 18 basis points.
However helping to offset the FX headwinds on EBITDA has been our focus on maintaining flexibility in our cost structure and our continued efforts to increase efficiencies throughout the organization.
Our initiatives have had a positive impact and we expect they will continue to make our operations more efficient as we extend them throughout the organization.
As a result for the third quarter our EBITDA margin of 12.3% was unchanged versus Q3 of 2014.
Moving to operating income it decreased by $5 million to $428 million for the quarter and was also negatively impacted by FX.
Our operating margin of 11.6% remained flat as compared to Q3 2014 similar to our EBITDA margin.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $35.9 million up $4.5 million versus Q3 of 2014 and was relatively flat up about $1.3 million from the second quarter of this year.
Versus Q3 of last year the additional interest expense related to the issuance last October of $750 million of our 10-year senior notes was partially offset by the benefit of the floating interest rate swaps we entered into during Q3 of 2014.
Additionally our interest income on our cash balances held by our international treasury centers decrease primarily driven by negative FX translation.
Versus the previous quarter the increase in net interest expense of $1.3 million was a result of a decrease in the interest benefit from the floating interest rate swap as well as a reduction in interest income.
Our quarterly tax rate of 32.8% continues to be in line with our current tax rate expectations for 2015.
Earnings from our affiliates of $3.2 million is down $2.6 million this quarter related to reduction in the contribution of certain international affiliates which were negatively impacted by FX.
The allocation of earnings for the minority shareholders and our less than fully owned subsidiaries decreased $2.4 million to $27.4 million also due to the impact of FX because a significant portion of our less than fully owned subsidiaries are located outside the U.S.
In general excluding the impact of FX the underlying performance of these businesses remained strong.
As a result net income for the quarter was $239 million.
That is down 1.8% or $4.5 million versus our Q3 results last year.
Now turning to Slide 3 the remaining net income available for common shareholders for the quarter after the allocation of $2.5 million of net income to participating securities which for us are the dividend-paying unvested restricted shares held by our employees was $236.8 million.
You can also see that our diluted share count for the quarter was 244.4 million shares.
That is down 3.2% versus last year driven by our share buyback activity in prior periods.
The resulting diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.97 per share an increase of $0.02 or 2.1% versus Q3 of 2014.
On Slide 4 through Slide 6 we provide the summary P&amp;L EPS and other information for the year-to-date period.
The brief highlights are organic revenue growth was 5.5% during the first nine months of the year.
The FX headwind was even larger decreasing revenue by 7%.
Net of the impact of our recent acquisitions and dispositions $20 million revenue declined on a year-to-date basis by 1.3% to just under $11 billion.
Our FX also negatively impacted EBITDA which decreased 1.1% to $1.425 billion.
Our year-to-date EBITDA margin of 13% was unchanged when compared to last year.
Turning to taxes on Page 5 our effective tax rate for 2015 of 32.8% is in line with our current expectations for our annualized rate and reflects the impact of the legal restructuring of our European entities which was largely completed earlier this year.
Keep in mind that the reported 2014 tax expense and tax reflect the impact of the $11 million tax benefit we recognized in Q2 2014 related to merger expenses that were incurred in 2013 and which became deductible after the termination of the merger.
Because of this we have presented the prior year's nine-month results of including and excluding the tax benefit.
On Page 6 you can see our nine-month diluted EPS was $3.06 per share which is up $0.11 or 3.7% versus 2014's reported figure of $2.95 per share and up $0.15 or 5.2% versus EPS when excluding the impact of the tax benefit that was recorded in Q2 of 2014.
On Slide 7 we turn the discussion to our revenue performance.
First as I mentioned a few minutes ago this quarter we continue to see organic growth across most of our regions and service offerings.
However the effects of FX continue to more than offset the performance of our business.
On a year-over-year basis in the third quarter the U.S.
dollar strengthened against every one of our major currencies.
This decreased our revenue for the quarter by $272 million or 7.2%.
The decline in the value of the Euro represent approximately one-third of the overall FX impact.
During the third quarter we also saw significant decreases due to declines in the pound the Australian and Canadian dollars and both the Brazilian real and the Russian ruble declined by approximately 40% versus the third quarter of last year.
This latest cycle of currencies weakening against the U.S.
dollars started to impact us in the latter part of 2014.
As we cycle pass the one-year mark currencies stay where they currently are the FX headwinds may begin to subside.
Based on our recent projections FX could negatively impact our revenues by approximately 4.5% during the fourth quarter which would bring the full-year reduction to a little under $1 billion or approximately 6.3%.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue marginally.
While we have recently added businesses both domestically and internationally we have made some strategic dispositions over the past year as well.
Finally organic growth was a positive $228 million or 6.1% this quarter.
Much as we experience in the second quarter we had another quarter with solid organic growth across most of our major markets with the notable exceptions being France and Netherland which continue to struggle and Brazil which is facing a difficult economic environment and difficult comp and we again had good growth across our disciplines most notably healthcare with the exception being PR which was down for the quarter but remains up for the year.
The primary drivers of our growth this quarter included are media and brand advertising businesses which had strong performances this quarter our full-service healthcare businesses which continue to see the positive impact of that new business wins over the past year or so the continued outstanding performance of our U.K.
operations recovery in certain Euro markets driven by Germany and Spain the performance of our emerging markets this quarter including strong results in South Africa Malaysia Singapore and Thailand.
Despite the recent market turbulence in China we also posted positive organic there.
Slide 8 covers our year-to-date revenue performance.
The impact of FX reduced revenue by over $750 million over the first three quarters of 2015 or 7% while organic growth over that same period was 5.5%.
On Slide 9 we present our regional mix of business.
During the quarter the split of revenue was 60% from North America 11% from the U.K.
16% for the rest of Europe and 10% for Asia-Pacific with the remaining revenue coming from our Latin America and Africa and the Middle East regions.
Turning to Slide 10 North America both the U.S.
and Canada turned in solid performances and we had organic revenue growth of 6.3%.
Turning to international as I just mentioned U.K.
had another strong performance this quarter.
The rest of Europe was up 4.5% led by Germany and Spain.
Our businesses in France continue to face challenges with negative organic growth while the Netherlands also continues to lag behind.
As we mentioned during the Q2 call our presence in Greece is very small accounting for less than one one-then of 1% of our consolidated revenue so while our businesses in the market declined this quarter as we had anticipated the impact overall was negligible.
The Asia-Pacific region was up 8.6% with most markets performing well including Australia China Malaysia Singapore and Thailand.
One region that lagged was Latin America which was down 6.9% organically.
While Mexico had another positive quarter it was overshadowed by a reduction in Brazil.
In Brazil the decline resulted from the weakening of the overall economy as well as difficult comp when compared to the fairly strong performance we had in Q3 of 2014.
Finally our Africa and Middle East region was up marginally in the quarter.
Slide 11 shows our mix of business for the quarter.
Once again they were just about split equally between advertising services and marketing services.
As for the respect of organic growth rates advertising services were up 9.9% or $183 million.
Marketing services were up 2.3% or $44 million.
Within marketing services CRM was up 2.8% maintaining year-to-date growth of over 3%.
The trend for the quarter for the vast majority of our subcategories within the CRM discipline is up year-over-year with the exception being our sales promotion businesses.
PR was down 1.5% in the quarter but is still positive year-to-date and specialty communications was up about 5.4% with nearly double-digit organic growth in our full-service healthcare businesses which was partially offset by a decrease in our other specialty agencies.
Year-to-date our healthcare business is up about 8% organically driven primarily by new business wins.
On slide 12 we present our mix of business by industry sector.
Comparing our year-to-date revenue in 2015 the last year's figures you can see there were no meaningful changes in this mix by industry.
Turning to our cash flow performance on Slide 13 in the first nine months of the year we generated over $1.1 billion of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
As for our primary uses of cash on Slide 14 dividends paid to our common shareholders $374 million were up when compared to last year as a result of the 25% increase in our quarterly dividend during 2014.
Dividends paid for non-controlling interest shareholders totaled $87 million.
Capital expenditures were $146 million.
As we have mentioned previously CapEx was up from the last year due to an increase in leasehold improvements related to some recent real estate consolidation initiatives.
Acquisitions including earn-out payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investment totaled $86 million and stock repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plan totaled $474 million.
All-in we outspent our free cash flow by about $55 million for the first nine months of this year.
Turning to Slide 15 focusing first on our capital structure our total debt of $4.6 billion is up about $48 million from the second quarter.
The increase is entirely due to the change in the fair value of our debt carrying value related to the in-the-money amount of our interest rate swaps as required on the U.S.
GAAP.
Our net debt position at the end of the quarter was $3.2 billion.
The increase in our net debt of about $224 million over the past 12 months using period end spot rates was driven primarily by the negative impact of FX translation on our cash balances over the last 12 months of approximately $373 million.
The impact of the fair value adjustment to our debt carrying value related to our floating rate swap which totaled $86 million the use of cash in excess of our free cash flow of $42 million in miscellaneous and other items which was partially offset by a positive contribution from operating capital of $315 million.
Although our net debt has increased over the past year our ratios remained very strong.
Our total debt to EBITDA was 2.1 times and our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.4 times.
Our interest coverage ratio improved to $12.6 times.
Turning to Slide 16 we continue to successfully manage and build the company through a combination of strategic acquisitions and well focused internal development initiatives.
For the last 12 months our return on invested capital increased 17.9% and our return on equity increased to 39.6%.
Finally on Slide 17 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders since 2004.
The line on the top of the chart shows our cumulative net income for 2004 through the third quarter which totaled $10.8 billion and the bar show the cumulative return of cash to shareholders including both dividends and net share repurchases the sum of which during the same period totaled $11.6 billion for a cumulative payout ratio of 107%.
That concludes our prepared remarks please note that we have included a number of other supplemental slides in the presentation materials for your review.
At this point we are going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Peter Stabler representing Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
One for John and one for Phil.
John there are some investors who are concerned that technology is enabling marketers to take more of their advertising duties in-house so effectively reducing the scope of work available for agencies I am wondering if you could comment on that.
Then Phil could you help us understand Accuen's contribution to organic growth in the quarter.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Good morning Peter.
That concern is true but advertisers have taken various functions in-house for a very long time.
We live with that situation and it has not impacted our ability to grow in other areas or grow with them or collaborate with them on the areas that they decide to take in-house.
With respect to programmatic we continue to see growth throughout and especially and even with clients that have taken certain aspects of this in-house.
We sit beside them and we do other things.
We complement their services so it is not - that of all the concerns we have it is not a very very impactful one.
On your second question Peter the contribution this quarter from Accuen was about $25 million growth year-over-year for the quarter so a little bit less than the second quarter.
Third quarter is typically a smaller quarter than the second and/or the fourth.
The rate of growth has slowed a bit versus last year and the third quarter I think the number was about $40 million.
We expect given Accuen has been around for just about two years now we expect that as the numbers get bigger in the base the rate growth was going slow a little bit.
We are happy with the performance.
Our clients are happy with the product that they are getting and we expect it to be good business going forward as well.
Thanks very much.
Our next question today comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I guess my first question is on organic revenue growth which has been so strong in the last few quarters including this one.
I know you have a lot less visibility always in Q4 given sort of the project business but any other variables that we should consider that might suggest this impressive growth might be a bit more muted in Q4 then I have a follow-up.
Our internal targets are to reach 6.1 in the fourth quarter there.
They are more in line with we had set for the year so that is number one.
Number two as you said and I think I have said for the last almost consistently for the 20 years on the third-quarter calls.
There is so much project business in the fourth quarter.
It is the quarter where we have the least amount of visibility between now and 12.31 because we do not know how clients - what their budgets are and what they are going to do with them just yet.
Yes.
That number we typically have found to be in the neighborhood of the $150 million to $200 million in potential year-end project work closing out budgets on the client side etcetera.
We typically do not get none of it and we typically may not get all of it but sitting here today we do not have a lot of visibility into what that number is going to be for the fourth quarter so as John and said we are going to stick with our assumptions for the year as they relate specifically to the fourth quarter.
Then just your thoughts on profitability here I know your style has always been to sort of optimize margins and honestly maximize in any one given quarter and that is how it has proven to be great strategy historically.
I guess my question though is given the organic revenue growth has outperformed at least our expectations and then trending a little bit above average.
Perhaps you could give us some more color in terms of what are the puts and takes of sort of what is leaving the margins flat and why we are not seeing extension.
I know obviously foreign exchange is part of it.
I guess what else is sort of limiting the margin expansion given the top-line growth? I think FX actually in the third quarter was a little counterintuitive for us relative to the first half of the year.
as I have said earlier the year-to-date impact of FX was about 18 basis points but in the third quarter which again is a relatively small quarter FX impacted those - in excess of about 30 basis points so we are a little surprised by that but you that is really just the math of where the FX impacts was.
We have got a lot of corporate costs primarily in U.S.
and some of our higher-margin markets outside the U.S.
were impacted a little bit more heavily by FX this quarter and overall percentage or proportion of the total pie so we think we have done a pretty good job to get back to the margins we delivered overall for the third quarter which was where our internal targets were coming out but FX certainly has been a big challenge for us this year on top-line and I think in the third quarter it had a little bit higher than expected impact on our overall operating costs and our operating margins.
I think we are comfortable with the performance.
I think we look at fourth quarter if FX rates stay where they are now we would expect revenues to be down about 4.5%.
FX had started to come down say late September early October of '14.
That is when the dollar really started to strengthen significantly but the Euro and Pound actually did not start to weaken relative to the dollar on a reported basis until early in 2015 so we expect to see some of the weakness in the fourth quarter relative to the euro and the pound which are biggest international markets.
I think from a margin perspective our expectation is the same.
We are going to continue to internally drive towards maintaining margins and overcoming whatever FX has in store for us in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question today comes from line of Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Thank you.
John I know it is really early here but just the various conversations you are having with your clients out there is there anything that you are sensing out there that the rate of growth on an organic basis as you look out into say the first half of next year is going be materially different or lower than the 5.5% you guys have reported year-to-date? I do not have any specific information yet.
Clients are really focused on finishing out this year and we won't start those dialogs probably until late November the beginning of December.
Every one of the CEOs that I talk to remain cautious and somewhat conservative because of all the macroeconomic issues there are once you get outside the United States so it is a little too early to give you more color depth on that question.
Then John also in the third quarter what were your net new billings so now you generally can try to get $1 billion.
What was it for the third quarter? Yes.
It was just on $1 billion probably close to $950 million for the quarter.
Okay.
Lastly can you just give us a little more flavor on the countries outside the U.S.
with the cost and the revenues are not perfectly match just give us a sense what regions or countries that is hurting your margins please - FX? Brazil? Yes.
It is not really - just to clarify Craig it is not really an issue of the cost and the revenues not matching on it.
We probably have a couple of exceptions here and there.
It is not necessarily a region that is an exception as far as the revenue and costs being denominated in the same local currency.
It is really just a matter of mix so some of our high margin markets Canada Australia Brazil and actually Russia - or Brazil and Russia given the currency impact is a much smaller than they were last year.
When we have high-margin markets that are impacted significantly by FX we had less revenue and less EBIT.
The less EBIT over what is a large U.S.
dollars driven denominator ends up having slightly lower margins because there was less EBIT from those markets where the currency negative was larger than the proportion of the total.
Hopefully that clarifies it for you but it is back to - it is kind of - yes it is not always intuitive it is not always in a straight line how FX impacts each of our international operations.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
John you took some time out of your prepared remarks to comment around the role of independent verification in particular noting publishers cannot create their own homework.
Of course the advertisers and their agents have some conflicts in this sort of dealings as well so I was hoping you could expand a little bit on what type of services you feel Omnicom is doing well providing to the advertisers within that's sort of a traditional construct and where you see the role of companies like Nielsen really truly independent measurement companies today and then maybe also a follow-up comment on how you view the comScore and Rentrak merger especially in light of the fact that one of your competitors remains a minority investor there if not a Board member? Sure.
Just one clarification when it comes to verification or any of these a media ownership we do not have any of those conflicts with our clients.
It is very important to make sure that everybody understands what Omnicom owns and does not own.
In terms of the verification services that I mentioned we pay for those.
They have been embedded in our performance Accuen type of revenue associated with clients where we will promise our results.
To make sure that a result is accurate we have gone out since 2013 and hired third-party verification people to come in and tell us gee what is the view of ability where is the audience coming from you look like you are reaching enough people but are they are really out of the market or they are coming from India or some place that you do not even sell your product so we have gone through that exercise to legitimize our efforts in this area and it expands all the time.
We believe that the time has come to agree industry standards and select third-party verification firms that clients are comfortable with and the providers are comfortable with and make them part of the normal practices that occur between client and agencies as we performs these duties.
There are firm that you mentioned Nielsen Scott a fabulous business and do all sort of wonderful things.
I do not know specifically what it is working on in this area especially mobile and comScore and Rentrak is a great firm we have relationships with them and we get certain data and information from them as well irrespective of the fact that WPP owns 20% of them so if this is a process - but I think the time has come because of the amount of spending that clients are directing toward digital channels to really agree these areas and publishers they are the one selling the content.
We believe that they need to step up and provide third-party verification.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of John Janedis representing Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Phil the buyback pace slowed a bit in the third quarter so I wanted to ask should we assume that there are some assets you are looking and maybe the $100 million-plus range and the billings do not close you would look to increase the buyback? Yes.
I think certainly our capital allocation strategy has not changed.
I will start with that.
We are going to continue to look for acquisitions that right fit our strategic requirements and we are going to be aggressive in trying to find those assets and help us to grow the business where we think it makes sense but to the extent that the right opportunities aren't available or we are not successful in reaching a deal that makes sense for us and frankly for the seller for the long-term we are going to put that money to use in terms of buybacks.
That approach has not changed.
We are in the process of negotiating some deals.
The pipeline is strong at the moment.
We are not certain ultimately where we are going to get to in each of these cases but there are some transactions work we are certainly evaluating and we are going to continue to evaluate and frankly that is no different than any quarter.
Given we are headed into the fourth quarter here either we are going to spend some of this say excess free cash that we have found some acquisitions and if we do not we will hold through to our pattern of a putting that cash to use in the way of buybacks prior to closing out the year.
That is helpful.
Thanks.
Maybe follow-up to Alexia's question I know there a lot of moving pieces but with the FX moderating and the cost initiatives kicking in should margins start to ramp into next year assuming organic growth remains healthy or have you deferred some investment given the FX pressures? I do not think we have deferred any investment certainly no investments that we have felt are necessary to continue to build on the foundation to provide for stable and consistent growth into the future but we are always looking for ways to be more efficient.
We have got some initiatives that have started to give us some traction.
We think we are pretty efficient already but we know we can be more efficient and there are more opportunities to take some cost out of the business.
I do not think we are ready yet to commit to what our expected growth rate as in '16 or what our expected margins are in '16 but we think as we continue to grow and as we continue to push these initiatives we are going to find some ways that to find some leverage in the business yes.
Just maybe one quick organic expense question can you give us organic expense growth for the third quarter maybe ex-currently? Organic expense growth I am not sure.
We do not really track expenses on an organic basis.
If you give me a minute I can you give an idea what the constant dollar numbers were or major line items.
I think on a constant dollar basis salary and service was just over $3 billion and office in general was just over $480 million.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Our next question is from the line of Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Two for John and one for Philip John can you just talk about the European markets which performed well.
I think this was your best euro quarter going back all the way till 2010.
Last quarter was showing improvement too.
I know you called out some countries that are holding you back but are you more confident in the euro outlook as you go from here given what you have see in the last six months? Yes is the short the answer.
We just had our Board meeting last week in Berlin and we had the opportunity to visit with all of our German subsidiaries.
They were very confident.
The German economy is very very strong.
That is why we called it out.
Spain has really turned it around compared to what it was in the past.
We did not call out Italy although in the quarter it had year-over-year growth.
The reason we did not call it out is because we still have a quarter to go so we are a little bit cautious.
France has been almost flat for the first six months because it has [ph] been a little negative in the last quarter and then Netherlands has been an issue for us for the last almost two years so the big markets in Europe overall showing signs of progress.
I can say with the exception of the Netherlands but at some point that will flatten down as well and will drain from the growth in the strong markets.
Yes.
I think it is Europe still has a long way to go but our performance has been pretty steady and we are continuing to make progress.
Yes - good progress actually in certainly smaller markets so tempered with that but the non-euro markets our businesses have actually continued to perform well there as well.
In the small markets we have also taken actions to refocus and resize our offerings.
Then I just had two questions related the broad topic of digital John a little over year ago at Adweek you announced a pretty big Facebook partnership.
I just was curious if you could give us kind of at the 12-month mark how that is going? If you integrating Atlas as you expected any surprises positive or negative and then kind of related hopefully related for Phil if you look at your salary and services margin as a percent of revenue I think since 2012 that has been going up about 50-bips a year.
You talked about currency this year.
I am guessing digital is a factor there as well.
I am just wondering if there is anything we are missing that might be driving that up as a percent of rev that we do not talk about.
As we think about going forward whether that is just something you expect to continue or any visibility on what is happening there beyond currently would be really helpful? Thank you.
Sure.
Well with respect to Facebook we did announced last year at this time and our relationship with them is very very positive.
We find them extremely cooperative and we utilize their services.
We have had growth in our spending with Facebook.
It is not a limit to Facebook.
We also have very strong relationships with the other major players Google we have experienced a lot of growth and Twitter.
Our relationship with Twitter has expanding recently so we are growing with them in most instances and our relationships are solid across the Board I think.
Back to the second question so salary and service we expect there are more valuable and flexible than our office in general cost.
We would expect them to grow a bit as our revenue grows.
I think in this year we found through 930 our headcount numbers were up a bit primarily probably in the U.S.
a little bit U.K.
so the number we expect to kind of grow with our revenues.
Office in general which are more fixed in nature.
We expect them to as a percentage of revenue which is how we look at the numbers we would expect them to decline over time.
Given some of the initiatives we have especially in the area of real estate we would expect to continue to pursue those opportunities to reduce those costs and keep them as low as possible so I think the trends is what we would expect to see.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
I think we are on right about to turn that the market is going to open so I think if we could do one more question.
Okay.
Our final question today will come from the line of Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much for fitting me in.
I just had one other issue you mentioned question about viewability and measurement.
I wonder if you have any comment on your slated scourge of your ad blocking.
There has been a lot of back and forth and I just wonder what your view is on what happened to the ad blocking what the impact is to you and agencies and also to the various media? Thanks.
Ad blocking is a large question for advertising because almost center staged.
The ANA last week - we have taken the view although we watch it that if you - the customer is in control.
Never been more evident than it is today and customers will embrace and ads-supported content model when they understand what it is we are trying to communicate and the quality - creative so I tend to agree with some CMOs which are basically said we focus on great work that consumers will be interested in will pass and we will get pass the ad blocking concerns that are in the marketplace.
It is an ongoing battle.
People do not have to sit there and suffer things that are not of interested them and then so incumbent upon us to improve the product and the battle though is going on some high-quality publishers are already requiring users to disable their ad blockers in order to gain access to their content.
We will see what happens in that battle so everybody is front and center [ph].
We are certainly addressing ourselves good by focusing on the work and the content that we provide to the consumer.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Thank you all for joining the call.
We appreciate it.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Omnicom Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to introduce you to your host for today's call Vice President of Investor Relations Shub Mukherjee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to our fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
On the call with me today is John Wren President and Chief Executive Officer and Phil Angelastro Chief Financial Officer.
We hope everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release.
We've posted on our website at www.omnicomgroup.com this morning's press release along with the presentation which covers the information that we will review.
This call is also being simulcast and will be archived on our website.
Before we start I've been asked to remind everyone to read the forward-looking statements and other information that we have included at the end of our investor presentation.
And to point out that certain of the statements made today may constitute forward-looking statements and that these statements are our present expectations and that actual events or results may differ materially.
I would also like to remind you that during the course of the call we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about Omnicom's performance.
You can find a reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the presentation materials.
We're going to begin this morning's call with an overview of our business from John Wren.
Then Phil Angelastro will review our financial results.
And then we will open up the line for your questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Shub.
Good morning.
I'm pleased to speak to you about our fourth quarter and the full year 2015 business results.
As you will hear this morning it was an excellent quarter for Omnicom.
We recruited some of the best talent in our industry continued to win significant new business and made a couple of important agency acquisitions.
It was a terrific way to end the year.
Our financial performance was also solid.
We posted organic revenue growth of 4.8% in the fourth quarter resulting in 5.3% growth for the full year.
We also achieved our margin and net income targets for the quarter and the full year despite significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and its impact on revenue and EBIT.
FX reduced our revenue in the fourth quarter by $236 million or 5.6%.
For the year currency impacts reduced our revenue by just over $1 billion.
As we enter 2016 FX will continue to be a headwind on our revenue and earnings but hopefully at a less significant rate.
Phil will provide more details about the impact of FX later in the call.
Turning now to organic growth by region North America increased by 4.7% reflecting very strong performances in our brand advertising and media businesses.
This was offset by a public relations and specialty disciplines both of which had difficult comps versus prior year.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 PR was up 9.9% and specialty was up 8.9%.
The UK.
was up 4.9% in the quarter and ended the year up 7.1%.
Overall growth in our Euro region was 3.5%.
In the Euro Markets Germany was in the mid-single digits and Spain and Italy also outperformed while France and the Netherlands continued to weigh on the performance in the region.
Outside the Euro countries Russia Sweden and Turkey had above average results.
Moving to Asia Pacific organic growth was 8.6%.
We had solid growth across almost every market and double-digit growth in Australia China Indonesia Korea Thailand and Vietnam.
Latin America was slightly positive for the quarter as strong performances in Mexico offset weaknesses in Brazil.
Looking at our bottom line EPS for the quarter was $1.35 up 3.8% versus the prior year.
For the year EPS was up 4% to $4.41.
Excluding the impact of currency earnings per share would have been 8% higher for both the quarter and the year.
For 2015 we generated over $1.6 billion free cash an increase of 2% year-over-year and returned almost $1.2 billion to the shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Finally our balance sheet and liquidity remained very strong.
Overall I'm very pleased with our performance for the quarter and the full year.
Looking forward the consistency and diversity of our operations and results combined with our very strong liquidity and balance sheet will allow us to capitalize on opportunities when they arise.
Turning now to some of the events of last year.
As widely reported 2015 had a significant number of media reviews.
As I mentioned on previous calls we were very selective in accepting only a handful of invitations to pursue new media business and declined a few others in order to stay focused on our existing clients.
And as I'm sure you have seen we ended the year winning most of Procter &amp; Gamble's North America media planning and buying business which was perhaps the most expensive and certainly the most closely watched review of 2015.
This win is a reflection of the talented people and the capabilities we have within Omnicom's Media Group and Annalect our open-source data and analytics platform.
You've heard me talk about the investments we've made in this area and they're paying off for our clients and our business.
We now have data and analytic experts or marketing scientists as we call them embedded in many of our account teams.
Clients increasingly recognize this alignment leads to better data informed strategies that are more effective in today's fluid and personalized marketing environment.
Overall we're very pleased with our results on these media reviews for the year as we came out a net winner.
An independent third-party (7:01) recently reported that we ranked ahead of our main holding company competitors and that includes us passing on some of the pictures I mentioned earlier.
Since year-end Sony concluded its global review.
OMD adding substantially to its music business and entertainment business while trading off some gaming businesses principally out of the UK.
Looking ahead there are also a few mid-sized opportunities and risks that are more typical of a normal review year.
Whether the pace of 2015 continues into 2016 it's too early to say.
But we will not be surprised if the patterns continue.
At the same time our Media Group is in a process of developing a third global brand in addition to our successful OMD and PHD brands.
You can expect our Media Group to announce the official launch of this third media brand in the next few weeks.
In the year ahead they will be establishing network offices in key markets around the world leveraging other in-country media assets.
This'll give us additional capacity to manage more client relationships as well as leverage the investments we've made in media capabilities across our businesses.
Turning to the topic of talent we announced last quarter that Wendy Clark would become CEO of DDB North America.
Wendy is highly respected in the marketing world and joins DDB from Coca-Cola where she was the president for sparkling brands and strategic marketing.
We're excited to have her part of the DDB and Omnicom team.
We also had a number of other important recruits in the quarter from leading marketers.
These senior talent additions are a testament to Omnicom's ability to attract top people from iconic brands.
I mentioned at the beginning of the call that we had made two important acquisitions in the fourth quarter one in Latin America and one in the UK.
In November DDB Worldwide announced the acquisition of Grupo ABC the largest independent advertising and marketing communications group in Brazil.
Grupo ABC has 2 000 people in 30 locations with best-in-class advertising brands as well as offerings in public relations CRM digital promotion and events.
Their blue-chip client roster includes names like Procter &amp; Gamble J&amp;J and Anheuser-Busch InBev.
We have known the co-founders of Grupo ABC since we invested in DDB's operation in Brazil in 1997.
So I'm especially pleased to officially welcome them back to the Omnicom family.
Importantly ABC has outstanding creative talent that will strengthen our capabilities not only in Brazil but also around the world.
And despite its current economic challenges we're fully committed to the Brazilian market as one of the largest for our services.
The ABC acquisition closed at the end of January and Omnicom's 2016 results will include 11 months of their operations.
In December BBDO Worldwide acquired a majority stake in Wednesday Agency Group.
With over 100 people in London and New York Wednesday is a leading creative agency focused on fashion and luxury lifestyle bands a specialized niche in our business.
The firm is known for its creative excellence and passion which makes it a great fit for BBDO.
Grupo ABC and Wednesday are perfect examples of agencies founded by leading industry talent with strong creative cultures that also strengthen our geographic and service capability.
Another barometer that we use to measure our success in cultivating the best talent is the performance of our work for clients in award shows.
Once again our agencies and networks continue their tradition of being the most creatively awarded companies in the world.
Let me mention just a few just to highlight them.
Omnicom swept Campaign Magazine's prestigious 2015 Agency of the Year awards.
BBDO was awarded Agency Network of the Year; PHD Media Network of the Year; and adam&amp;eveDDB picked up Agency of the Year.
BBDO topped The Gunn Report for the tenth year in a row.
At the campaign Asia-Pacific Agency of the Year awards TBWA and DDB won Creative Agencies of the Year in Japan Malaysia New Zealand Southeast Asia Philippines and Indonesia.
There were many others throughout our disciplines and I want to congratulate all of our people in agencies for their outstanding work.
Operationally we continue to drive greater efficiencies throughout our business in 2015.
We are constantly challenging our people to find ways to manage their costs agency-by-agency.
And on a regional and global basis we're leveraging our scale in areas such as information technology real estate back office services and purchasing to deliver further cost improvements.
We believe that these and other initiatives will allow Omnicom to deliver a 30 basis point margin improvement for the full year 2016 or 13.7% EBITA versus 13.4% for this past year.
Before I hand the call over to Phil I want to touch on the importance of innovation and collaboration in our business as we continue moving forward towards more interconnected activities.
In January I attended the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.
I'm always amazed at the pace of technological change from virtual-reality which has now reached the tipping point to the Internet-of-Things which is resulting in automation and interconnection of homes cars personal devices.
Many of these innovations were still in the concept stage just a few years ago and are examples of technologies that will create new opportunities for marketers.
For Omnicom and our agencies it is critical to continue and hire and develop talent and build capabilities to keep pace with these changes as well as to align our businesses and people in a manner that allows us to best service our clients.
Partnerships will also help drive our success.
Partnerships between our clients and agencies across our different types of agencies and partnerships with companies that complement our capabilities.
From shopper marketing to PR to media to advertising to CRM our agencies are increasingly working together seamlessly on behalf of our clients.
They're also collaborating with tech companies entertainment companies fashion and design firms to create the innovative award winning work that they're known for.
We believe we are the best-in-class in doing this and our 2015 performance demonstrated it.
Omnicom continued to be an industry leader strengthening our talent embracing new technologies and collaborating to deliver outstanding creative work for our clients and their brands.
I want to recognize and thank the 74 000 people at our agencies for their world-class integrated campaigns outstanding new business wins and all the great work that enabled us to deliver these results.
I will now turn the call over to Phil for a closer look at the fourth quarter and the full year results.
Phil? Thank you John and good morning.
During 2015 our businesses continued to focus on meeting the needs of their clients and winning new business as well as enhancing efficiencies within their organizations to improve their operational profitability.
For the fourth quarter our organic revenue growth of $200 million or 4.8% once again exceeded our expectations and capped the year where organic growth was 5.3%.
The U.S.
continued its strong performance to close out the year with Q4 organic growth of almost 4% coming off a particularly difficult comp versus last year's Q4 where organic growth was 9%.
Internationally we again experienced solid growth in all of our regions with strong country performance in the UK.
and Canada and across most of our major Asia Pacific markets.
Continental Europe was positive driven by Germany and Spain while revenues in the Netherlands and France declined.
While we continue to have solid organic revenue growth overall in the fourth quarter exchange rates continued to create a considerable headwind on our international revenue as almost all foreign currencies again weakened versus the dollar in Q4.
The negative FX impact of 5.6% in Q4 was somewhat lower as a percentage than the previous three quarters of 2015 as the decline in currencies began in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Revenue for the quarter after considering a small reduction in revenue from the impact of our dispositions net of acquisitions was $4.15 billion down 1% versus Q4 last year.
We will go over our revenue growth in detail in a few minutes.
Now we'll move to EBITA and operating income.
EBITA for the fourth quarter of 2015 decreased $5.4 million to $604 million versus $609 million in Q4 of last year.
As we've discussed previously the vast majority of our expenses are denominated in the same local currency as their revenue which operationally serves as a natural hedge.
However in several of our higher-margin markets including Australia Canada and Brazil FX had a relatively larger negative impact this quarter than in previous quarters this year.
However through our ongoing initiatives to increase efficiencies throughout the organization we've enhanced the flexibility in our cost structure.
These efforts have allowed us to offset the FX headwind on EBITA.
As a result the EBITA margin for the fourth quarter of 2015 was 14.5% which was unchanged versus Q4 of last year.
Operating income decreased by $3.9 million to $575.5 million for the quarter which was also negatively impacted by FX.
Operating margin of 13.9% was up slightly compared to 13.8% in Q4 of 2014.
Turning now to page two of the presentation.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $36.8 million up $6.8 million versus the fourth quarter of 2014 and up $900 000 from the third quarter of this year.
Versus Q4 of last year the increase in net interest expense related to an increase in rates on our floating rate debt and the termination in Q4 of the floating interest rate swaps on our 2020 senior notes and a portion of the swaps on our 2022 senior notes.
This brought our ratio of fixed rate to floating rate debt from 50%-50% to 60% fixed and 40% floating at year end.
The gain that we realized on the termination of the swaps will be amortized over the life of the debt.
The amortization of that gain in Q4 of 2015 was lower than the benefit recorded from the swaps in Q4 of 2014.
Additionally interest income on our cash balances held internationally decreased year-over-year by approximately $1.1 million due to negative FX.
On a constant currency basis interest income was up slightly year-over-year.
And versus Q3 of 2015 the increase in net interest expense was the result of a decrease in the interest benefit from terminating our floating interest rate swaps in Q4 partially offset by an increase in interest income from our international treasury centers resulting from our higher than average cash balances in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
Our quarterly tax rate of 32.8% was in line with the full year tax rate of 2015 and consistent with our projections for the year.
Earnings from our affiliates of $2.2 million is down versus last year which was related to a reduction in the contribution of certain international affiliates primarily as a result of the negative impact of FX.
On a constant dollar basis our earnings from affiliates was flat.
The allocation of earnings to the minority shareholders in our less than fully owned subsidiaries decreased nearly $11 million to $32.6 million while negative FX was the primary reason for the decrease since a large number of our less than fully owned subsidiaries are located outside the U.S.
The decrease was also due to the purchase at the end of the third quarter of one of our larger non-controlling interests of one of our agencies in Latin America.
As a result net income for the quarter was $332 million.
That's up $2.1 million or a little less than 1% versus our Q4 results last year.
Turning to slide three the remaining net income available for common shareholders for the quarter after allocation of $3.3 million of net income to participating securities which for us was a dividend paying unvested restricted shares held by our employees was $328.3 million.
up slightly from last year.
And our diluted share count for the quarter was $243.8 million that's down 2.4% versus last year which has been driven by our share buyback activity over the last 12 months.
The resulting diluted EPS for the quarter was $1.35 per share.
an increase of $0.05 or 3.8% versus Q4 of 2014.
On slide four through six we provide the summary P&amp;L EPS and other information for fiscal 2015.
The brief highlights are as follows.
Our full year 2015 organic revenue growth was 5.3% while the FX headwind decreased revenue by 6.6%.
Net of the impact of this year's acquisitions and dispositions which added $15 million our total revenue was $15.1 billion down 1.2% versus last year.
And as was the case with our Q4 results FX negatively impacted our full year EBITA and margins.
EBITA decreased 1.1% to $2.03 billion and FX negatively impacted our margin by about 20 basis points for the year with almost all of the impact coming in the second half of the year.
As a result of our ongoing efficiency efforts we're able to maintain our full year EBITA margin of 13.4% consistent with last year.
Turning to taxes on page five our effective tax rate for 2015 of 32.8% was in line with our expectations for the year.
At this point we expect our 2016 tax rate to be fairly consistent with the 2015 rate.
And on page six you can see our 2015 diluted EPS was $4.41 per share which is up $0.17 or 4% versus 2014's reported amount of $4.24 per share.
On slide seven we turn to the discussion of our revenue performance.
First as I mentioned we saw positive organic growth across all our regions this quarter.
Fourth quarter's growth was driven by the performance of our traditional advertising and media disciplines all our other disciplines a mixed performance across the regions which I'll discuss later.
FX continues to be a significant drag on our revenues.
On a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter once again the U.S.
dollar strengthened against every one of our major foreign currencies.
This decreased our revenue for the quarter by $236 million or 5.6%.
While the decline in the value of the euro accounted for over one-third of the overall FX reduction we also saw significant declines related to the Australian and Canadian dollars the Brazilian real and the British pound as well as the Russian ruble.
As of the end of the fourth quarter we've now seen five consecutive quarters of large negative movements in FX due to currencies weakening against the U.S.
dollar.
As we enter into 2016 based on our most recent projections and assuming currencies stay where they currently are FX could negatively impact our revenues by approximately 3% during the first quarter of 2016 and 2% for the full year 2016.
Revenue from acquisitions net of dispositions slightly decreased revenue by $6 million.
While we've added businesses both domestically and internationally over the past year we're continually evaluating our businesses and making strategic dispositions as deemed appropriate.
And finally organic growth was $200 million or 4.8% this quarter.
We had another quarter with solid organic growth across all of our major regions with the notable country exceptions being France and the Netherlands which struggled in 2015 and Brazil which continues to face an uncertain economic outlook.
Looking at our disciplines our traditional media and advertising businesses led the way.
The performance of the businesses in our CRM discipline was mixed with our field marketing and events businesses having a challenging quarter.
And although our specialty and public relations disciplines were down organically for the quarter both of them faced difficult comparatives to last year's Q4 performance when they each achieved organic growth in excess of 8%.
Overall our below-the-line disciplines did not achieve as much of the year end client projects spend as they did in Q4 of 2014.
On slides eight and nine we present our quarterly regional mix of business.
During the quarter split of revenue was 59% from North America 10% from the UK.
17% for the rest of Europe 11% for Asia Pacific with the remainder coming from our Latin America and our Africa and Middle East regions.
For the full year the split was much the same as in the fourth quarter.
In North America both the U.S.
and Canada contributed to another solid performance with organic revenue growth of 4.7% for the quarter and 5.4% for the full year.
Internationally our UK.
agencies continued to perform well across our businesses.
The rest of Europe was up 3.5% for the quarter and 3.7% for the year led by Germany and Spain as well as Italy.
France was still negative organically and Netherlands continues to lag behind our other major markets in Europe.
Asia Pacific was up 8.6% in the quarter and 7.9% for the year with the major markets again performing well including China South Korea Thailand and Australia with the exception being Hong Kong which was up slightly in the quarter but down for the year.
In Latin America our Brazilian agencies had another negative quarter in the face of uncertain economic conditions.
But we had strong performance from our agencies elsewhere in the region in particular Mexico.
This resulted in a slightly positive organic growth for the region in Q4 but the region as a whole was negative for the year.
And finally our Africa-Middle East region although relatively small was up 5% in the quarter driven by a strong performance in South Africa and the region was up 6.8% for the year.
Slide 10 shows our mix of business.
For the quarter they split 53% advertising services and 47% marketing services with the full year split being similar.
As for their performance our advertising discipline was up 12.6% in the quarter 9.3% for the year driven by the outstanding performance of our media businesses across geographies.
CRM was down 1.5% in Q4 and for the year had positive growth of 1.9%.
Our field marketing and events businesses had a challenging quarter.
Most businesses in the category were up on a full year basis versus 2014 with the exceptions being field marketing and sales promotion which were down for the year.
PR was down 6.9% in the quarter and was our only discipline that was down a bit for the full-year was down by 1.4%.
Fourth quarter decrease was due to difficult comp compared to Q4 of 2014 when the PR discipline posted growth of 8.5%.
Specialty communications was down 5.9% in Q4 but up 2.2% for the year.
Fourth quarter decrease was due to a difficult comp compared to Q4 of 2014 when the specialty discipline driven by our full service healthcare businesses posted growth of 9.4%.
Overall as I said previously our below-the-line disciplines did not capture as much year-end client spend as they did in Q4 of 2014.
On slide 11 we present our mix of business by industry sector.
In comparing the full year revenue for 2015 to 2014 there was minimal change in the mix of our client revenue by industry.
Turning to our cash flow performance on slide 12 in 2015 we generated over $1.6 billion of free cash flow excluding changes in working capital.
As for our primary uses of cash on slide 13 dividends paid to our common shareholders were $497 million up when compared to last year.
Dividends paid to our non-controlling interest shareholders totaled $129 million.
Capital expenditures for the year were $203 million.
Acquisitions including earn-out payments net of the proceeds received from the sale of investments totaled $150 million.
And stock repurchases net of the proceeds received from stock issuances under our employee share plans totaled $680 million.
As a result we outspent our free cash flow by just under $44 million for the year.
Turning to slide 14 focusing first on our capital structure our total debt of about $4.6 billion is up about $20 million from this time last year.
The increase is primarily due to the change in the fair value of our debt carrying value related to the in-the-money amount of our interest rate swaps at year end 2015.
Our net debt position at the end of the quarter improved to $1.95 billion compared to $2.16 billion at year end 2014.
The decrease in our net debt of $209 million over the past 12 months using period end spot rates was driven primarily by positive contribution from operating capital of about $550 million partially offset by the negative impact of FX translation on our cash balances over the last 12 months or approximately $265 million and the use of cash in excess of our free cash flow of $44 million as well as some other smaller items.
As a result our ratios were strong.
Our total debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.1 times.
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.9 times and our interest coverage ratio was 12.2 times.
Turning to slide 15 we continue to successfully manage and build the company through a combination of strategic acquisition and well-focused internal development initiatives.
For the last 12 months our return on invested capital increased to 21.5% and our return on equity increased to 41.3%.
And finally on slide 16 we track our cumulative return of cash to shareholders since 2004.
The line on the top of the chart shows our cumulative net income from 2004 through year-end which totaled $11.1 billion.
The bar show the cumulative return of cash to shareholders including both dividends and net share repurchases the sum of which during the same period totaled $12 billion for a cumulative payout ratio of 108%.
And that concludes our prepared remarks.
Please note that we've included a number of other supplemental slides in the presentation materials for your review.
But at this point we're going to ask the operator to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your first question comes from the line of Peter Stabler from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for the questions.
Two if I could.
First of all John I was wondering if you look at your businesses your segments outside of traditional advertising and you did call out the difficult comps but on a full year basis if you look at those segments organic growth was about according to our math 1.2% for the year.
So just wondering outside of comps whether there's any sort of mix shift happening within the business.
And as you look forward to fiscal 2016 would you expect a more balanced performance across the operating segments? And then a quick one for Phil: could you let us know what Accuen's contribution in the quarter was? Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Peter.
Below the line these specialty service businesses that you're referring to are the most numerous within the portfolio of Omnicom.
We're constantly looking at that portfolio to find out gee are they growing and are they growing in a particular market at a rate that we're satisfied with.
And it's a constant evaluation.
It's a constant review done by the people here at Omnicom corporate.
It's also done by the people at DAS.
And unlike most of the advertising and media assignments we have they tend to be projects.
They tend to be projects with existing clients who repeat a certain amount of spending every single year but it's not as precise and it's not as predictable.
So this year we were particularly happy with our healthcare companies' growth that they achieved but also the businesses that they've won well particularly critical in a very positive way of some of our PR operations.
Some have advanced a lot further than others and we've been spending the last several months getting everybody up to par.
There's no easy answer.
It's a constant battle.
But I'd say on balance today we're pretty comfortable with the portfolio in which we're going into next year with or into this year with.
And just add to that your second question Peter the contribution in terms of growth from Accuen this quarter was about $45 million.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
David Karnovsky on for Alexia.
Can you provide a bit more color on how clients are looking at spending for this year and maybe how that translates into organic growth? We've heard good growth domestically in Q4 has continued into Q1 but don't really have a lot of insight yet into full-year spending plans.
And then just how much if at all do you think the weak financial markets might influence those spending decisions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Phil and I can share this.
The world is as it seems to be reported every single day the U.S.
continues to be strong and the markets that we reported growth are okay but there are a lot of transition spots and weaker spots around the world.
China is in a transition although its business for us has been good.
Brazil we're expecting weakness and we're expecting the weakness to continue throughout 2016 even despite the Summer Olympics.
So when we take a look at organic growth based upon what we've seen we think 2016 can be very similar to what we experienced in 2015.
And if we had to throw a number at it we'd say it's 3% to 3.5% based upon what we know now.
Yeah.
I think our expectations heading into the year are somewhat similar.
We're certainly not sitting here today as very early in the year very early in February committing to or I guess implying that the overall growth for 2015 will be the same.
I think our expectations are the same sitting here in February of 3% to 3.5% organic.
I think for us we haven't seen a correlation between the discussions our agencies have been having with their clients with respect to what our clients' goals and strategies are in 2016 and what their spending might be at correlation to what's going on in the financial markets.
I think the themes John touched on more broadly as far as the global economic situation and some pockets of uncertainty those we expect will correlate a little more directly with what our clients ultimately decide to do.
From a spending perspective less so what's going on specifically in the financial markets over the last month or so.
And I think time will tell whether the current volatility is a forecast of something that's going to impact the economy more broadly.
Okay.
Great.
And then can you provide an update on capital returns? I think some investors are maybe surprised at the lack of a dividend increase this past week.
Anything we should read into that? And then maybe just your updated thoughts on priority for dividend buyback in general? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Phil do you want to take it? Yeah.
Sure.
I think from our perspective we don't expect any change in our capital allocation strategy.
I think the dividend as we've said before is a board matter.
It's certainly on the board's agenda.
I think our expectation is they'll deal with it sometime in the near future at one of the next board meetings in that their agenda has been a little crowded with plenty of things as it always is but we expect they'll get back to that evaluation and consideration as it relates specifically to the dividend.
As far as the rest of our strategy I think our perspective is going into 2016 more of the same.
To the extent we can find acquisitions that fit strategically culturally and pricing makes sense we're going to continue to look to do more acquisitions rather than less.
We expect that activity will pick up.
We closed the Grupo ABC deal in the first quarter of 2016.
And we've got a pipeline that we continue to pursue.
To the extent deals happen we'll have less free cash to use to buy back shares.
To the extent the deals don't happen we'll continue to deploy the cash through share buybacks as we have pretty consistently.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Your next question comes from the line of Julien Roch from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi there.
Thank you for taking the questions.
The first one is on the menu reviews from last year now that we've gone through all of them.
John maybe an assessment of the overall impact of the industry was it led by pricing and therefore will it have a deflationary impact on overall industry growth in 2016? Or was it done on other consideration and have little impact? That's the first question.
The second one is again on the review but on your remark at the beginning of the call that you said that you thought that we potentially might see a similar level which I guess the market will take negatively if we start to have massive review every year.
So if you could give us some idea why you're thinking that that's going to be the case.
These are my two questions.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay Julien.
Our experience was that it's a new environment and with digital being a very much important component of what happens from a media perspective and also the utilization of data and analytics of making decisions because of all the channels that are out there so I'd say on balance in the reviews we've participated in pricing was not primary.
It was really those capabilities and whether or not the service provider in this case us was the correct partner moving into this next period which is very very – it's interesting it's exciting it's changing very rapidly.
And if you don't have the right capabilities it's very difficult to catch up in a short period of time.
So that's what our clients I believe were looking at.
I also believe that there are probably some especially on our wins who actually confirmed that separately and independently in the press.
So that's a very strong feeling that I have.
So I don't see pricing erosion certainly not in 2015.
My comments in my prepared remarks were such that we have not been informed or been notified of any opportunities or risks other than a few minor accounts that are currently in review and we're hopeful that we see a more normal year in 2016 where there aren't as many large media accounts put up for consideration.
But at this point preparing for that would be foolish.
We're much better off being prepared to face the similar type of level.
So until it's confirmed I'd ask the market not to read too much into my comment.
But we certainly stand ready.
Yeah.
I think we go into 2016 trying to be prepared for what we wouldn't be surprised if more reviews occur than maybe the pace of reviews two years and prior I don't think we're sitting here saying it's an expectation or we've got some information directly from either clients or potential targets that would lead us to conclude that it's imminent.
But certainly we want to prepare ourselves and our businesses to be ready to compete on that basis.
And overall the more and more complexity there is in the landscape – media landscape the more clients are looking for a provider with what we think we've now demonstrated in some of the wins that we've had we've got the capabilities we've got the right people we've made the right investments.
And the more complexity we think the better off it's ultimately going to be for our business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
Just one more comment Julien.
The clients that I would categorize as blue-chip clients we're out there looking for the right partner.
There is always clients out there looking for the cheapest price but you'll find that their business goes into reviews quite often.
Okay.
Very clear.
And then maybe a very quick one.
Impact of M&amp;A in 2016 on revenue based on the current deal you have closed? I think probably right now we're looking at about $100 million of net acquisition growth or acquisition growth net of dispositions based on everything we've completed to date.
We're going to continue to look to find and close more deals as I said before.
And we're always constantly reevaluating our portfolio and making sure we've got the right business mix and the right strategic assets.
And if we don't we're going to look to prune the portfolio of businesses that either aren't on strategy or are not performing to the point where we think that's appropriate to make a disposition.
Okay.
Great.
Very clear.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line Craig Huber from Huber Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
It's a lot of concern out there in recent quarters from investors that guys like Google and Facebook take much of your business media side in particular.
Could you just comment on that? And this concern seems to come and go over the years but what's your latest thoughts on that? Why is it not a concern I assume you'll say? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well our relationships with both of those companies are very strong and they've only improved during 2015.
We view them really as a partner a neutral partner maybe but they've assisted us in many things.
They're not looking to provide many of the services that we provide our clients and we learned to work very well with them in most instances.
I think clients are looking to us to be the neutral partner in evaluating whether or not we use the media that you'd find at Google versus the approach that you'd take at Facebook and I think that's really – it's been a question in the past as to whether they were going to be our competitors or going to be an effective media way for us to reach consumers.
And I think right today I'd say it's settling in on them being a partner and clients increasingly depending upon us to do their planning and to do their buying off of their – whatever platforms are available.
Yeah.
We certainly see our clients looking to us to help them make the evaluation across the various media options that they have.
Google and Facebook are certainly huge players in the digital space so they're part of any and every evaluation that we do on behalf of our clients.
But I don't think our clients have reached a comfort level or reach a comfort level where they're just willing to turn over a big part of their budget to Google and Facebook directly and feel comfortable that it's going to fit into their overall strategy in a consistent way.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In recent conversations I've had with one of the two but it's true both of them is an early tell I think is to watch their employment numbers.
How many people are Google hiring? How many people are Facebook hiring? And what type of people are they hiring? I think in earlier years there was confusion as to whether they wanted to hire marketers or engineers.
I have a very strong impression that as they look at their businesses they're hiring more and more engineers every day than they are marketers who could potentially compete with us in any way.
Two more quick questions please.
For the fourth quarter what was your net new business wins? Your future (51:27) goal is usually about $1 billion there.
And then also could you speak quickly about China? Isn't it about 2% of your revenues I believe.
And you said it was up 10%-plus.
What's your outlook for growth in that market? It comes up a lot with investors.
Thank you.
Well I'll take the new business one.
So the overall number was probably just shy of $2 billion but that included a large number on the P&amp;G front.
So I think the number from our perspective although we don't place a great deal of weight on a billings number a new business billings number was probably in the neighborhood of what we would typically expect our businesses deliver on a typical quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And with respect to China the Chinese market is absolutely changing but it's still growing at a really decent pace.
And our market share in China we have a lot of headroom.
We have a lot of opportunities to win new business both other multinational companies doing business in China Chinese multinational companies which are looking to develop their markets in China and they then go outside of China and in the major markets the more successful domestic companies.
So it's interesting conversation when we discuss what's happening with China and what's the impact of growing 7% in a year versus 5.6% a year.
But we still have a lot of work and a lot of opportunity just in gaining market share in that market.
Yeah I think overall given what's going on comes down to your individual client base.
Our clients the majority of our clients certainly in our agencies in China are large multinationals who are trying to grow their business in that market.
And we think they tend to be a little bit more stable and that's just a little bit of a difference in terms of the mix of our business versus some others.
And I think overall it's probably not the worst time to be under-indexed in the Chinese market.
Our focus has always been on the quality of the agencies that we have in that marketplace and agencies that can meet the requirements of our clients in a satisfactory way and it hasn't necessarily been on quantity.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Nollen from Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
And I'm pleasantly surprised my question has lasted this long.
I wanted to ask about margin expansion in 2016.
Very pleased to hear John you were talking about 30 basis points of upside.
I would assume your foreign exchange numbers of minus 2% negative impact are included in that.
I just wonder if you could put a little bit more color onto what goes into the thinking there as you've been basically flat for about four years now.
I know you've been investing in Annalect and so on and it's clearly been generating some returns for example with the P&amp;G win but what other color could you give on the margin expansion outlook regarding revenues and also regarding costs? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> First of all I think the 13.7% based upon what I know today is inclusive of the impact of foreign exchange as we know it today.
If we repeated – if we had another $1 billion impact because central banks went crazy we've talked to you about it during the year but based upon everything we know and everything that we've told you this morning is that those are our expectations.
The reason for it is – Phil can chime in -- the revenue growth has been solid and has continued to be solid but we've been able to take a lot of actions in a lot of programs which take a long time to get started but once started we are starting to realize the benefits of the things like real estate.
I don't know what else you want to add Phil.
Yeah.
Certainly we're focused on real estate technology back-office administrative costs and a few other areas.
I think John's right they do take a while to get started.
But the goal for us is to make sure that the efficiencies that we implement are sustainable.
And that's what we've been pursuing for the last while here and we're going to continue to pursue it in the future.
And although we think we're pretty efficient in all of our operations overall we know we're going to continue to try and improve in the area of efficiency and effectiveness as it relates to the cost base.
And that's certainly the plan.
On the FX front just to echo what John said a typical year for us we would expect is plus or minus 1% or 2% in terms of FX impact.
And if things continue in that zone we're certainly comfortable with our current expectations.
If things go back beyond that to where we were this year although it depends on where the FX negatives occur I think we'll reevaluate it as the changes occur.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But I wouldn't have said it Tim if I didn't believe it.
Inc.</span></strong> Can I ask a follow-on which is related and I understand what you are saying about FX obviously.
You mentioned earlier in the comments John about you've been recruiting some of the best talent.
Just wonder have you found it easier going or tougher going on recruiting and on wages given some of your competitors may not be hiring as aggressively if that's true but on the flip side I would imagine you've got intensifying competition from the Silicon Valley for talent? What can you say about recruiting and pricing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well our recruiting efforts have been very specific based upon our company needs and requirements and we've had people on our list for a long time.
And many of my network CEOs who you don't have the occasion to speak to on a regular basis have identified these folks have been working very very hard.
Now there's no question that changes in the laws in terms of what people can make at the bottom end of the equation and as you get more and more of these analytical type of people I'd say that maybe less creative more – highly mass oriented type of folks you are competing with some other companies that we traditionally haven't competed with.
But so far we've been able to obtain and acquire and have joined Omnicom the people that we've looked for now.
Yeah certainly more of an ongoing component of the business day to day as opposed to when we get a win we then start thinking about where do we find these people or we have a need.
The businesses start thinking about where do we find these people.
I think it's much more embedded in the ongoing business operations.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And finally this is an intangible but I believe it really really counts and I always have culture counts.
When somebody gets down to making a decision as to where they want to spend their time the culture of the organization they're moving into is a contributor as well as pay to amazing (1:00:07) decisions people make.
So so far so good.
We're happy.
We can always use more talented people.
Those some extraordinary ones you can drop me an email but that's what we're doing.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
Operator I think we have time for one more call.
Okay.
That question comes from the line of Dan Salmon from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
I'll keep it to one as I know the opening bell is ringing here.
John as you start the third media-buying agency how are you doing it differently than when if you might have done that say 10 years ago? I'm sure there's lots of industry slang we could use like digital native and things like that but I'm thinking a little bit more tactically smaller office footprint different board chart.
But any insights you can offer on how it will be differentiated? I'd appreciate.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
First it will be different than if I was doing this in 1996.
We have quite a number of hubs out there where we have a lot of talented people that that's what we're going to build around.
There are key very important markets where there'll be standalone companies under this new brand but there will be many other markets that the service level required by the particular client is not the same.
And so that becomes an important factor.
Plus what's different today is our platforms for data and analytics are much easier to leverage over geographies than they were in the past.
So that's what we'll be doing.
And we'll be leveraging this next network based upon those key markets and the various capabilities that are required to fully service clients in those markets.
So I'd say unlike in OMD you'd find more hubs other than some of our competitors you wouldn't have an office say in every single country because we would be able to fulfill our clients' requirements through different means.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Well thanks everybody for...
Yeah thanks for taking the time to join the call.
We know it's a busy earnings morning.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.